ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 4th, including Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir, says she'll be absent in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly as her deputy of the 1st Pier of Pirata, Smoke. S., Olga Margrét Cilia. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u3	A respectable president. Without physical therapy, I may not have been present today to give this talk. That is why I wonder. A health minister suffers so badly that medical training in the country that I receive e - mails in which people point out that the cost has not just been raised by 500 bucks, which they have to pay themselves for every additional time, but more than 500 bucks have been raised again. ... fortheyearlydays. That's 1,000 bucks, then. for each time. People who are three times a week at a physical therapist have to pay 3,000 bucks. An extra 12,000. per month. They're people who can't even afford to pay them. And what do these people do? Yeah, it says you have to cut down trips to physical therapists, that instead of going for three hours a week, it goes for a while. The result? I can tell you that. As a result, the person goes to bed, needs to take more aspirin, or just land in a medical facility. How much will 24 hours be spent there? One hundred and twenty-five thousand.? How on earth are we going to allow ourselves to do this in the middle of a Covid epidemic? Then there are huge waiting lists for hospital studies, quite a few waiting lists. At the same time, the union is being squeezed into a state that cannot become a newborn for two years. How can a health minister predict that a physical therapist will study and once trained, he must not work for two years? This is going to take the most out of service in the country. Why is this so, and what will health - care minister do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question, which is natural to appear at this point. Medical services, like those provided by physical therapists, are provided on the basis of agreements and remunerations on the basis of their agreements. The situation has now been that treaties are not available between health therapists and Iceland's Medical Insurance. Of course, the contract went out for the right year, and the lack of contracts that have been going on for a year is just a very difficult and serious situation. I'm now being told that there are meetings once a week between Iceland's Medical Insurance, which has the responsibility to negotiate for health care, health care professionals, and the conversation going on. I strongly emphasize that this service is achieved by negotiations, as has repeatedly been shown in communication between us here, my and the other. A senator, that we agree on the importance of the services of a physical therapist. In fact, I have emphasized that physical therapists are also part of a health care team that could offer an even greater, multicenter, front - line medical service. Often, physical therapists can give you better advice on musculoskeletal problems than on doctors or other health professionals. The negotiations have not yet worked. I hope, of course, that deals get caught soon. According to the information I have, I think there's an health insurance meeting with an agency manager before New York, and I hope we'll soon see some sign that these cases are moving.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the answers. I also sincerely hope that she will review the rule that people will be able to come to a physical therapist for six hours without consulting a family doctor. This is of utmost importance, and it relieves health care and paperwork and so forth. It has proved true that it does. I know from the experience of the people I've talked to that they'll come back. It's a far less cheap way than the others, to let everyone get a request. According to a physical therapist's case, the latest directive not to operate independently until two years is not a law. The rules were set on December 20th, and they haven't got anything to say about it. They say that there was only one negotiation. Is there any reason to rub the sleeves and make sure the contract is done? [[The president calls.]] Is that not the only way for those who need this service to be sure that they will receive it fully rather than just one in three?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u6	A respectable president. You see, that's exactly what we have to do, to negotiate. I agree with what. A senator says that negotiations are not the desired situation. It is important to point out and, therefore, keep in mind that the regulations presented here apply only to the services of those working outside the agreements. It is in the hands of the health authorities at any given time to define the type of service we would like to buy. It is stated in the health insurance laws that in the health care contracts there are requirements for the service providers, including ability, which is the basis for reimbursement. So everything that has been done in this subject is based on the health insurance law, but I agree with it. Senator on the importance of making the first contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u7	Mr. President. I'm going to direct questions to the highest. Environmental and resource minister on the management of waste in the country. It's like the highest. A minister is aware that we became most of our garbage today. Thus, each year we became about 200,000 tons of garbage, and I left behind all of inactive waste. In recent years, we have also exported a considerable amount of waste and appeared in response to the highest level. Minister for my inquiry earlier in the winter that this is about 220,000 tons each year, mostly for recycling and recycling. Of course, recent reports that some Western garbage ends huge garbage dumps in Third World countries worry us about the consequences of all the garbage being transferred from one country to another. In view of the fact that the price has now been cut off in Eelfunnes within two years, I want to direct that question to the highest level. Minister if he cannot agree with me that we can no longer continue on this course, i.e. to grow and export our wastes. If he agrees with me, what solution is the highest. A minister in that regard? We do not have to solve our garbage business as close to the source of the garbage, i.e. Here on land? In recent years, the technology for incineration of waste has built highly environmentally safe waste uses in order to eliminate waste and produce heat and electricity that are so useful to Western countries. On three occasions I have suggested that the government really knows how to build such a station in this country, thus solving our garbage problems. It's the highest. A minister may imagine that he will take the bait for such a station to rise on the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I agree with what. A senator's need to be greatly reduced, but this is just one of the main challenges to the handling of waste that has come to the attention of the government. In addition, there is a set of laws that, if the bodies do, will lead to a reduction in the risk in the country. Among other things, aims are to adopt category, synchronise systems throughout the country, and bring the service closer to the population so that urban areas will be obliged to accept organic waste on the house wall, cardboard, paper, and plastic waste. This is all basic to promoting recycling society in Iceland and is very important. I've talked about putting on a tax on the watch so that I can encourage it to become less vulnerable than it is today. It's in this direction, and I hope to make progress in the years ahead. I'd like to say about incineration, so I'd like to point it out. A senator's failure to use garbage is not the only solution, but it is the solution to something we cannot reuse, cannot recycle, or recycle. It's better to burn garbage and make energy than to grow it. But we must not build a system that is the only solution to waste in Iceland. Then it wouldn't be good for us. But like others, we need to work at solving them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. Of course, I'd like to be happy to hear that a minister had a report called a waste policy. Core that this policy was put in the Ministry's review procedure toward the circulation economy. I'd also like to point the highest. There is no plan to build a waste - in - a - waste dump station here. V.E.G. A minister says there are other ways. I can agree, it's also been investigated that waste can be reused and, of course, we have to aim for it. But today we're growling 200,000 tons, and over it, and moving something out. And even if we recycle a considerable amount of money, something must always be eliminated. The results of this report are that of approximately 100,000 tons. [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen? Minister to act on that matter? And time goes by, Aluminium is closing. Don't you think it's time to start planning a high-tech dump?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u10	V.E.G. President. I want to point 'em. A senator is supposed to have a recycling rate of about 30% in Iceland, but it should be 50%. That's the subject. We got too much, you're right. Senator. But to think that incineration is the only solution in this relationship is to tell me that the senator is focusing too much on one solution. We need to increase the use of things. We're supposed to use them better. We're supposed to use less, and we're supposed to recycle as much as we can. According to a review between the European Union and the Ministry and other sources of waste management in Iceland, it calls for a decision to engage in one major area close to waste origin or more less that would then be distributed throughout the country and that work is going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u11	Mr. President. At the beginning of this year, we received reports of a cervical biopsy for the study of possible cancer, of 2,000 women, demarcating unmoted, and waiting for a study in cardboard boxes inside the medical system. Two thousand women who claimed to be health - care providers were conscientious in cervical screening; otherwise, during the day. Health authorities at the highest level. Health Ministers had failed to settle agreements about who would now study the visions of these 2,000 women. A two-year translocation process for breast and cervical cancer screening has not been better than that it forgot to find out who to take samples. Since the first news of this unprecedented mess has been received, it has been over several weeks. Health Ministers naturally state that the transfer of the service from a cancer partner to Hospital and Medical Health will take time. The process began two years ago. It has now been reported that the first 1,000 samples were investigated in a laboratory in Denmark where the Icelandic government intends to negotiate temporarily. No agreement can be made with Icelandic researchers and the use of Icelandic Hospitals. The vision should be sent to Denmark, but not all because the following day the bottles do not fit all the Danish investigators, so a number of women must return to a sample as joyful as they are today. The results of the 1,000 samples taken several months ago show that 150 women need further follow-up. This means cell changes have been identified. The 1,000 samples still waiting in the cardboard system are not known. For this reason, I'd like to ask the highest. A health minister who asks for sincere and honest answers. Does she feel that this is an acceptable practice? Does she feel that it is acceptable to handle matters like this in the transfer of vital health care? And finally: Why can't we use the latest tools and research capacity and knowledge of the staff of the Icelandic Health Organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for reminding me of my sincerity. It's always important. The safety and quality of the studies have been guided by these cervical samples. It can be, not a matter of special interest, but of being properly intelligent. It's a safety issue. As we carry out our ministry, it is only natural that some time will take on a new role and will restore everything to its place. But the situation is exactly this time that the large agreement on the analysis of these samples was complete on Friday, and by now 2,000 samples collected by Iceland's cancer partner have been sent out. The second one was sent out today to Denmark. Some 400 samples taken at the end of December will be sent out after the weekend. All women who have samples and they report the results of the sample will be contacted, but it is estimated that up to 15% of the women need to return to cervical screening, which health care allows the women to pay for free. It is very important, a respectable president, not to be tempted to speak out of public health care for political purposes. We have priceless wealth in the professions of health care and other places in the general and public health - care systems throughout the country. This system is our share of all the people of the country, a priceless wealth of knowledge and professionals who are ready to take a new role but who, at the same time, have prepared to be excommunicated for their work and of the people who stress the use of the position here for political purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u13	Mr. President. I agree with it as the highest. Minister said. It is important not to speak down public health care. That's why I ask, "Trust in the highest. " Isn't the Minister of Health at the National Hospital and the new instruments there to study these samples? Safety and quality are important, not where this is going to take place, and therefore, it must be normal at the most. The health minister will answer the question, Why are these new devices not used? Then I'd like to ask if a computer system to share information from the Danish lab is available for Icelandic doctors. Should not surgeons deal with this situation if the situation was inadversive? And finally, I ask, is it the highest? When it comes to access to health care, does the health minister know that equality does not prevail among the population? We know, for example. There is a 3,700 non-healthy community in South York City where there is no health care. We know that in especially troubled Southnes, population growth has been 30%, but unfortunately, there is very little access to health care in this area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u14	A respectable president. Hv. For example, to meet the situation mentioned here, a senator has decided to build another clinic on Southnes. I have placed great emphasis on improving health care at my time, expecting that all of us who have public health care and open health care will rejoice that the money for health care at today has increased by 25% in my time as health minister. It's important. I'd also like to say that when that decision is taken from the medical facility in the capital area to negotiate with this laboratory in Denmark, it's about safety. It's all about safety. I have emphasized that my professional assessment of security and information will be safe between the laboratory and the women who are going to be screened. [[The president calls.]] The results will be rapid and reliable when these will be brought to a future and will be available in all the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u15	A respectable president. The last issue of The Watchtower included six women who had been saved at the Eyjafjörður Medical Home and described how the head of the household had treated them both mentally and physically. In striking accounts, they describe a terrible hardship and report that there was widespread fear control in the home. Confronted are the descriptions of the beatings the children experienced in this government institution. The study also shows that the violence in question seems to have been on many witnesses and that as early as 2000, there were reports of tyranny and violence on the part of the director. Then, in 2001, an agent of the Children's Institute for Children's Protection informed them of a number of indications from the local shelters and from the parents. As a result, she preached to her three former clients to a meeting that all had experienced violence during their stay. An agent requested the investigation of the charges at the Children's Institute in 2002, but the evidence indicates that this was not done. The women's open letter to the Department of Social Affairs says, by permission of the president: ▪ We experience that we have not been listened to, so let's step forward today in the hope that the operation will now be investigated, that failure will be accepted, and apologized. In view of their testimony about the violence of the director, who ran his home in 1997-2007, the women now demand that a research committee be arranged for their household's management work. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether she has already studied the matter. Will she take advantage of her ministry to investigate the matter, as the women ask? Does it not seem reasonable for ministerial servants to find compensation for the misdeeds in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The answer is first, because of reason. A senator asks if I have studied the case, to the highest level. The Minister of Social Affairs has informed the government that he has these issues for consideration and will thereafter review them at the level of the government. So that's where it's at. Hv. A senator also asks if research is appropriate. Of course, this will depend on the highest estimate. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs is putting the matter to rest. As a result of recent reports and special attention to Eagleholt's affairs, the Ministry of Presidency has been reviewing the arrangements of these cases and sending a memo on what I hope was received by the Committee today, where it is precisely considered how such tests have been conducted and how they could be handled. Of course, it is in our position to apply the legal authority in the case of the IIlium research committees. Specific administrative committees can also be established, but under such committees there is a special improvement. This has caused me to wonder whether it would be reasonable for us to have special coverage on public committees rather than just FBI research committees. True, we see a number of cases that call for research and some of them perhaps on the side of the company and on the other side of the Council. For this particular matter, as far as it depends. One senator mentioned I believe just to wait for the Supreme Court. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs will review it at the national level before I can determine what the final outcome will be for further treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u17	President. I want to thank you very much. The prime minister gives detailed and detailed answers, and clearly he or she agrees on the subject. Sadly, we have a long history here of violence and discrimination against disabled children in institutions, and sad as it may be, they are not surprising. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers what steps she and her Ministry took and will take to prevent such a case, preventing this from happening again. Does a minister agree that any external monitoring system with such treatment centers may have to be established, since initiative checks may be taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u18	Mr. President. First of all, I think it's important in this context to remind you of the legal principles of children who are here for the treatment of the Supreme Assembly. The Minister of Social Affairs, where it's actually being suggested to make a change in the establishment of this environment, we can say, which is responsible for the affairs of children and child protection. I believe that these matters will be a major step toward the affairs of children in the same time. There's one mission. I think we're doing the right thing, and I really hope the Congress will finish these cases. Then there's a question about the past that will lead to something different. Senator. It is clear that although we have done a considerable work in it, now before Christmas by finishing the bill on fair compensation to the disabled children who were staying in some kind of institutions or homes of the government, there are other work to be done. In this context, these laws and research documents of administrative committees need to be considered. [[The president calls.]] I hope to have a good conversation with the World Health Committee on that matter, not just in the matters of the disabled, which led to their inquiry, but in the whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u19	A respectable president. The direct and indirect effects of Covid-19 on the status of equality are of concern, as it is well known that there is a decline in economic hardship in increasing the pay of the sex and therefore need to be vigilant. Iceland, as we know, is at the top of the World Economic Council's list of gender equivalents and has been doing for over a decade. Of course, good results in this regard can lead some to believe that we have landed. We do know, however, that the difference in pay between the sexes is a persistent problem, explained as unexplained. Women's careers are not appreciated and have not been appreciated, and all of us experience the consequences. Of course, the success has been achieved in this country, not just in time, but in a decisive struggle and in a legal way that all of us can take pride in. But I must admit that I was surprised when I saw that one of the first steps of the Social Affairs Minister of this government was to postpone the implementation of a law of equally pay-authorization, which will then not be fully implemented until the end of 2022. We also see measurements that raise specific questions. In 2008, pay differences between the sexes amounted to 20%. Since then, we have observed positive but slow results until 2018, when the amount of pay went back from 13.6% to 14%. In other words, something was happening before we entered that difficult economic situation. Of course, not much increase, but 14% is indistinguishable. So the uncorrected pay difference between the sexes has already increased only as measured. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: According to a synonym in 2018, it was assumed that the remuneration of remunerations of different professions would be undertaken. to obtain gender based pay amounts to ensure equality with the remuneration of different professions. Secretary of finance was assigned to the project. How does that work? Is there a need for special action now on the part of the government in the wake of that work to work in behalf of this goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up the issues of equality and Covid in this question period. One is the amount of pay, and I'm going to get to it after it, but another is sexual violence, which we've seen evidence of is growing because of a pandemic. I'd like to mention it here, because of what. A senator is asking about measures to ensure equality, which is very important in a pandemic situation, that the Council adopted the first Precaution program for sexual violence, sexual harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment. This may have been done in 2019 C.E. She's well-funded and she's on her way now. I have high expectations that specific measures in the case class - except for the legal elements that have been coming in and being built on the work of a whole-scale improvement group in this case, we discussed sexual immunity here yesterday - will lead to significant improvements in this field, which I believe can be called a cause and the result of sex discrimination in the community and is not exactly taken into the World Health Organization's measure on Equal Opportunities. I can say with what. A senator for the remuneration and the equally payoff. We have worked very hard to push both companies and institutions to meet the goals of equally pay. I'd say, despite Covid, it was all right. We've been focusing on publishing information. So that project is in full swing. However, there is an unexplained difference in pay. Then I'd like to mention that in the case of government collective agreements and BSRB, it was decided to set out for special work on women's jobs to reevaluate. This job is for the Ministry of Presidency, not the Ministry of finance. The staff is working and will return the results this summer, and I think that we could somehow find the reason for this unexplained amount of pay, which is turning, including how we appreciate men's work and how we value women's work in a systematic way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister is eager to know the answers. I sincerely agree with her that sexual violence is one of the primary lesions of our community and the root and the consequence of sexual equality. But I was here especially looking at another persistent problem that is less serious; that we are in 2021 still dealing with this reality. I felt that there was only a lack of an answer because this body of Congress proposal is from 2018, it was approved that year, and this analysis was expected to be done. First, why is this project being carried out by the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economics? I'll let me ask you as a new senator, I don't know how to do that. It has now been some time since the secretary of finance received this assignment with the approval of the council. The reverenders have asked the question about it on a regular basis without answering. I raise the same question again in view of the fact that a crisis is and always in a historical way has been designed to add weight to the struggle of equality. What is it about this work and are some special measures under the government now in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u22	Mr. President. Yes, it is now, so I answered what the Ministry of Presidency is doing, and I think I'll just have to refer to the Supreme Court. With regard to the work being done at his Ministry, the secretary of finance, for I certainly do not have a perspective on all that is going on in all the problems. Hv. A senator asks what is being done. First, the Ministry's work is always being done for the Presidency as regards the gender of any action we perform, and I agree. A senator about the need for special attention in our current situation, as we know from history, that can lead to greater inequities and inequities. However, the work being done in the Presidency Ministry, and it will be over for summer, is about reevaluation of women's jobs, which will be seen as the cause of a sex market which is truly more sexual in this country than in many other countries, and then in the assessment of men and women's jobs. [[The president calls.]] And as I mentioned earlier, this was related to collective agreements where BSRB took the initiative. There, the workers of the work market meet with different advisers, and I have high expectations for the work of this group, for in some respects it will address the root causes of this problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u23	Mr. President. It is safe to say that after the U.S. Biden election results became the Joe president of the country of seven million votes, the country's population won the victory over an advanced president Donald Trump. Trumpur's reign was characterized by presumptuousness, abuse of power, falsehood, racism, and contempt for women. Trump drew the United States out of international institutions, shutting down the people of Islam into the United States, rejected the results of democratic elections, and several times promoted violence based on racial prejudice and hate crimes. By their speech and behavior, Trump gave right extremes, newborns, and nationalistic ambitions legitimately, and there they have stood right behind the four years of hatred in all directions, with the support of the country's own president, who practiced the most extreme scathing of all. His reign ended with his admonition to his supporters to invade the Assembly Hall itself. Trump also failed completely during the pandemic, causing the United States of America to suffer the greatest loss of all Western nations because of the crown virus. What a relief it is that on January 20, a new president took over in the United States! And as early as the first days of Bidens's reign, the difference is clear. So on the first day of her office, Biden ordered that a travel ban be canceled against the states of Islam, ordered that the United States be a member of the Paris Convention again, reduced the U.S. report from the World Health Organization, and ordered a number of measures to respond to the Covid-19. He has also shown that he stresses the human rights of minorities in American society. Now it is a matter of sharpening our relationship with the new U.S. government, which has a view far different from the past; putting it before us what we as a sovereign independent state would like to stress with President Bidens's government and in our dealings with the United States with a new President with nothing more important than the former. Iceland's relationship with the United States is special and has been close for 80 years, but it's also been controversial for the 80 years. Our dealings with the United States are very important to us, but it also matters to us on what basis they are built and on what basis, whether they are based on common values, respect for democracy, law and order, and respect for human rights, and especially mutual respect for the rights of both nations. The interest of the U.S. government under Trumpur's leadership in the north was obvious, but the interest was driven by man - made bullying and old - fashioned authority rather than by earnest interest in ensuring good and peaceful relations with other countries in the north during a time of great climate change that will be most evident in the Arctic and will result in great changes. An example of this old - fashioned approach to the Trump Management of the North is the publication of his North Pole representative against further joint action and cooperation in the management of climate change. This needs to be adjusted to increase the equality between the nations at the Arctic, where we Icelanders need to take the initiative and give a clear view based on climate change and its consequences on environment, nature, and transport. So, what will be the cooperation of Iceland and the United States when it comes to security and protection, and what will be the changes in this cooperation? It is clear that there will be a critical change in safety and protection between Iceland and the United States and that there will be a need to highlight the new urgent elements relating to the network security and climate change. Our business relationship with the United States is of utmost importance. The minister of foreign affairs highlights business agreements with the United States, which is very good and needs and something we need to continue to maintain with the Western government. They also need to think again of that business arrangement with a new president. Mr. President. When I'm at the highest. A foreign minister has spoken of a free trade deal with the United States. I remind you that all ideas and jobs with some sort of vacation agreement with the United States need to be discussed in the Senate and associated with other vacation contracts that we work at the scene of EFTA and our business relationships through the EU, and especially with customs or similar plans. It is also a fact that Biden has little expressed himself on the priorities of his government in international trade, although it is likely that Biden will soon shape policy with emphasis on the restoration of the international business system. Early news reports on these emphasises indicate that they will be eliminated through climate and social rights. There is truly good news for Iceland and can offer great opportunities in business agreements or agreements between the two states and even lay the groundwork for some sort of climate agreement between the two countries that would be an incredibly exciting project and indeed an important weight on the scales in the battle against climate, which is the focus of Biden's utanríkisstefna policy. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Finally, I propose that Iceland make a special climate agreement with the United States. I can't wait to hear what's going on. The minister of foreign affairs comes into his speech here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. paritaprevir Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjörn's daughter for taking the initiative in this important discussion. I'm all for further and better discussions at the General Assembly on foreign affairs. Especially is it important to discuss our dealings and relationships with close allies and friends, such as the United States. We at the Ministry of State have, like what. A senator, who watched events over the past weeks and months, certainly aroused events that took place at the Assembly Hall in Washington, January 6, past worries and, in fact, strong reactions at home and home. Now, however, government reversals have taken place, and Biden and his people have taken steps to implement their policies. As far as I'm concerned, I don't particularly stop at the fact that over the last few weeks, it has shown how strong the democratic tradition is in the United States in due time. What we can see is that democracies and government systems met the challenge that can be said to have been released by a former president. Of course, these are all true friends of the United States, especially this quality of American society that makes us Icelanders have viewed the United States as our friends and allies in the world of international security. Regarding the communications of the United States's new President Joes Bidens, I can now tell you that over the past few weeks, the Ministry of State has been working in good cooperation with the U.S. embassy in Washington to map out how best to work on continued good relations between Iceland and the United States. I believe that it is important in the work that as a matter of course, I have already made contact with the WHO foreign committee. A senator knows. It will be taken into account that the Barden Government is facing a very challenging assignment at home. The battle against the Covid epidemic is simply at the top of the agenda for a new president, including measures to deal with the economic consequences of the epidemic and the vaccinations of the population. However, a new tone of voice has already been identified in the field of international cooperation. So on the first day of her office, Biden ordered the United States to become members again to the Paris Convention on Climate Change Action, and the President has reassigned the United States from the World Health Organization, to name just a few. We look to the United States as the most powerful democracies in the world, and it is vital that the United States remain in the position of international leadership. For us and other democracies, it is of vital importance that the United States is active participants in international activities, especially now that are undermined by various rights and values that we consider so important. The good relationship between Iceland and the United States is based on these common values and interests and is not bound by who sits in the Presidency of each country or by any category. Between the countries, we have deep cultural ties, and business ties are of utmost importance to us. The United States is the most important export of our Icelanders, and it must be taken care of for the interests so far. In the past four years, there has been good progress in these products, and I expect that we can continue to work to ensure the best conditions for business between countries. In particular, there is the economic plot set up in the wake of my meetings with the then U.S. Secretary of State and the so - called Icelandic bill that will be submitted at the council. In the United States, the bill aims to provide available visas to Icelandic citizens who do business and investments in the United States. The national security and protection team, both two-sided and at the scene of the Atlantic Community, is a common interest in the state and is a fundamental part of the national security policy of our Icelanders. In recent years, both Iceland and the United States have been investing in uplifting U.S. equipment that has been used little since the end of the defense force in Iceland 15 years ago. This investment also comes about by changes in world affairs, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Furthermore, cooperation in the northern regions has never been as intimate as the past few years. We note the intense interest of Westerners in northern affairs, which have generally become larger internationalized in recent years. In fact, in view of President Bidens's emphasis on climate, we expect that there is an opportunity here to further expand the good cooperation between the nations, which is based on strong business relationships, cooperation in the area of security, and sharing the ideas of democracy and freedom. Icelandic and American scientists are in good cooperation in research in various fields, such as the media of northern, health, and energy. Such cooperation is very positive and will continue to work toward furthering it. In short, I expect our relationship with Washington's new rulers to be good. In this regard, I can inform you that there is hope that a new U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken can attend the Council's Ministerial Conference, held here in May, which ends Iceland's two-year Presidency period. All of this depends, of course, on the development of the Covid pandemic, as well as on everything we do, but we're optimistic about the possibility of a meeting. [[The president calls.]] At the end, I want to thank you to the senator and look forward to hearing the comments of others in the discussion below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u25	Mr. President. I want to be like others to thank you for this discussion. It is important to discuss the changes that are occurring in one of our major allies when we see recent elections in the United States. I welcome what is said in the words of the highest. Minister, that no policy should be altered regarding communication with the United States. The government set out a great deal of cooperation with the Trump government, so it is important that they continue to cooperate with new U.S. rulers. We need to strengthen this bond. We need to focus on the changes we now make. We need to look for new instruments. We need to see where we can get the English emphasis we couldn't use before by means of that new government. There is one amazing thing that happened at these elections. The vice president of the United States, Harris Kamala, is the first woman to do such work and she is an African American and an Asian American. This gives us an opportunity to discuss equality with the Americans, and we are not supposed to let our hands drop there. It's a special opportunity, Mr. President, to test whether the Americans now want to come with us on the way to speaking for equality and the ultimate equality of all after this change. Not by default. But this is part of what we're supposed to stress that there's an opportunity, and Harris Kamölu will be watched for how he works in his office. I would also like to mention that we need to ask if there will be a change in the focus of defense. Can we expect a new government to change something that the Trump government seemed to have in Iceland? Then I'd also like to consider whether the Minister may be aware of this and have had some conversations about changing the American government attitude to travel to and from the country, i.e. Iceland's journey. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to mention that it is important for Iceland to emphasize this to our good allies in the United States, Britain, Greenland, and possibly at the same time in Denmark, how we can promote cooperation in the North East, and especially in the North Atlantic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u26	Mr. President. It's going through the United States at the deportation of President Trumps, with a new president and a new government, and I'll expect over the relationship between Iceland and the United States. The Trump government made almost entirely bad decisions on foreign and northern states and I'm going to emphasize the big issues in a few words. I'm going to be glad that we're inviting Antony Blinken, a new foreign minister, to meet here in May and suggest that John Kerry be there too. The involvement of these men would be the confirmation that the U.S. government wants to blow over the mistakes and wrong affairs of Pompeos foreign minister Rovaniomim in 2020, where he prevented the joint declaration of the northern states. We're here to encourage the United States to reevaluate and to change the position on northern affairs, at least In part, and in particular on climate issues in this regard. Of course, their return to the Paris Summit is to be welcomed, but it is well - known that the northern regions are becoming increasingly more important each year. We are to encourage the cooperation of the United States and Iceland in the affairs of the oceans and the bottom of the ocean on the basis of the United Nations Sea rights agreement and sustainability, promoting continued low-voltage in the north. And since it is not possible to hide the defense and safety issues, it would be desirable for us to find ways to establish a message of peace and disarmament between all eight states of the north and other countries, not at the Arctic Council or the Council of Congress in the north, but at other locations in the direction of peace and disarmament, on the north or on the global level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u27	Mr. President. It's fine to take this discussion. I appreciate it. I appreciate an excellent tip from the highest level. Secretary of state. Clearly, the world's balance of power has changed in recent years. During Trumpur's reign, the situation in the United States deteriorated in countless ways, and the United States lost much of its soft power. They weakened the international system; they undermined many international institutions, such as UNESCO, World Health Organization, and the Paris Convention; and so on. Perhaps the only situation that improved to some extent was when Iceland entered the United Nations Human Rights Council. It was a nice step I wanted to thank you for. Clearly, Bidens's government has shown great initiative and willingness to take care of things, and it is important that Iceland and the United States communication over the years reflects the common goals we have. It is clear that small countries have a very limited impact on such giant nations and to develop the interest of the big nations in themselves, but where there is a common interest in language groups, Iceland can be established in the discussion as an important and reliable partner. It contains, for example, to mention Arctic and environmental matters, and that was fine. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was here to discuss the equality issues. And there is, of course, the world's peace issues. Still, let us not forget that the balance of power has changed. There is reason to insist that the United States proves itself again, but it does not accept its former roles as self - sufficiency. Even if a new government proves to be trying, there are only so many major tasks ahead of us. If we act as though we were in the past, we will certainly not be as successful as it was in others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u28	A respectable president. You forget to listen to these good talks. I want, like others, thank you. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir for bringing up this matter because the United States has been, is and becomes one of our most trusted allies and friends. Even now, we need to have opportunities for these elections, improving our relationship and improving our cooperation. The Senator did a fine job over the events of the past few months and years during Trumps's reign and then a recent election and what Bidens's regime has actually accomplished in a very short period of time, amazed by many bad decisions, in my opinion. This power exchange is a huge opportunity for Iceland. It's where we have to concentrate naturally, and I hear that the highest. Secretary of state is there. Many have mentioned the climate, and I agree with it. I'd like to ask in this context why. A senator named a potential climate agreement between the states, and she hears a little more about what plan he could become. Also, I would like to ask the highest. Minister for a possible vacation contract with the United States. What's the situation there? Will he see any movement in that matter in the near future? In many ways, time is too short. But as more people do, I'm glad the Americans are back in the Paris convention and agree with it. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for increased cooperation with the affairs of the sea. I suppose there are more for me to discuss in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u29	Mr. President. I would like to like other speakers to start by thanking for this discussion, although someone might think it was hardly timely, since the president's change is just right, and if I noticed correctly, Joe Biden is giving his first talk on foreign affairs probably at this exact time and we are talking about this matter. Still, it is very important to wonder whether something will change and what will happen to that transition. The reign of Trumpur, former president of the United States, was a source of great disappointment. Many of the things he did and foretold were that many people, including me, felt that the American way of handling their affairs was a failure. I was very disappointed. Similarly, a person is optimistic about the possibility that the new president of the United States will abandon the course that Trump set out to leave and call America First, by permission of the president. On the other hand, we will see exactly what aspects of Biden will be involved during his reign, although we have happily many positive signs about it, especially that he is clearly planning to take a more active and better part in international cooperation, and have been given here a fine example of this of the previous speakers. I think we should strive to strengthen our relationship with the United States. But I also think that we should be open to the fact that there will be no new United States on a global scale that will come out in the next few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion, but I'll admit that I think it's a little early. I'd say Joe Biden might be allowed to take off his half-steaks and only be in office before we start wondering what he's going to do in Iceland. I think he's got a lot more than enough to do at home with Covid, grassery, environment, and other things to do there. I don't think he's very busy taking care of little Iceland right now. But he has come to power, and I sincerely hope that he will benefit the United States and therefore the whole world. They were, as we have seen, out of the Paris convention and the World Health Organization, and these are important issues that need to be addressed. I hope that it will come to an end. Of course, what's happening in Iceland is the Arctic and the race between China, Russia, and the United States. I don't think it's going to be solved, but I have to go in and see what happens because, probably, as the situation is today, and with what most people say, we're on the last spin from the environmental point of saving what's going to be saved. I sincerely hope that this matter, especially the environment, will be taken into consideration by the Presidential trade in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u31	Mr. President. Hv. Brynjólfsdóttir The changes and opportunities of government in the United States and the effects they can have on U.S. foreign policy and communication and cooperation, including the U.S. Iceland. I'm going to talk to you about a specific episode that has been forgotten in the discussion, unintentionally, or deliberately. In 2019 C.E., the decree of fishing was signed on long - tried and crashed in 2019-2023 C.E. There are 200 long - range fish allowed to catch and 200 bursts of fish in this country each year. National business research shows that about half of the consumers in North America say they don't buy any products from a fish-fishing nation. So it should be clear to all that our fishing is both environmental and economic unwise and harmful to our image and economy. I know that whaling is in the custody of a sea chief, but we need to discuss this fishing in a broad context, also out of our foreign interests. Interchanges and huge business interests are at stake. Although the Donald Trumps government has not been very concerned about our whales, it is likely to become Joes Bidens's presidency. He was vice president of 2014 when Obama presented a very clear U.S. policy to the whales of Iceland and other whalers. From Obama to officials, it was direct recommendation to avoid contact with the Icelanders during those days. Iceland's foreign policy has been defined as being alienated from Europe by entrance into the EU into two-way communication and trade - sharing. I have things to say about that, but our relationship with the United States is particularly important. So I'd like to ask you, how does a minister look at the situation? Is it likely that Biden will follow the same track as Obama and isn't it time we discuss whaling, out of our interests, with the United States?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u32	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. In general, we'll discuss foreign affairs in a councilroom far too little. The enduring friendship between Iceland and the United States is rooted far back to the early days of the republic. In August 1944, a few weeks after we started our republic, Björnsson, on his first official visit to Washington, D.C., met with President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 32th president of the United States. The president's meeting was held on August 24, 1944. They met at the White House, and this was the first official visit by the President of the United States. This tells a lot about how the nations communicate over the decades and has always been a good relationship between them. The 1951 Defense Treaty is the foundation of the Icelandic National Security Policy and is expected to be one of our biggest contracts along with NATO. Then we can name the Northern Union, EFTA and EEA, which is the general basis for our foreign affairs. But the 1951 defensive agreement is of utmost importance to this nation. It's way too short, but I'm going to point out one point. At the meeting of the NATO committee last year, Pelosi Pelosi, president of the U.S.A., was at the February meeting of the NATO Council. She had just arrived from a security conference in Munich. In the second year, the number of U.S. senators and senators goes to Europe in order to show actually how they support NATO and this cooperation. It's the key and cornerstone of all communications. It's too short, it's just not possible. We need to discuss these matters much more. We need to discuss political party policy in Iceland as far as our defense agreement and NATO are concerned. Then perhaps it's time to ask why. A senator who brings up this wonderful idea of discussing these matters: What is the position of the Continent to the defence agreement and NATO today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u33	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, it is important. High Secretary of State. In the morning issue of Awake!, the article entitled "The People's Issues - How to Affect Us - " will be discussed in the morning. Ministers are right, international affairs are important to a nation like Icelanders. We have a lot to do with foreign business and defense cooperation. Our voice is to be heard internationally, especially in areas where we have the greatest chance to do good. To my judgment it is in the realm of peace. Although we as a small country and, in fact, have become a nation of people, we are a large country when it comes to international peace. It is primarily a matter of having confidence in other nations. This has confirmed the secretary - general of the United Nations. We don't have an army, and we don't do weapons. It is a great opportunity because trust is the key to success in communicating matters to peace. However, this discussion is particularly about our cooperation with the United States. In the above article, one minister said that he focused his attention on strengthening the link from the west through the ocean during his ministry. But has the government done so in the season? I'm not quite sure it is. The trouble with the government when the vice president of the United States brought us home in September 2019 was not exemplary. Was it because the government didn't like the local rulers of Washington? There is no other way to reason. The United States is our chief friendship nation, a state with which we have an important defense agreement and a defensive organization. Our main alliance, the United States, can never be seen because national leaders or their policy do not like the government of Iceland. It's Icelandic interests that matter here. The French president of the United States, Donald Trump, is the first president who has taken the initiative to make a free trade deal between the United States and Iceland. [[The president calls.]] Iceland's response to this positive statement made by the President of the United States had little to do with us. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to go to the top. A minister saw what the government continued to do in order to accomplish this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] I congratulate the newly elected president of the United States on my chosen and successful career. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u34	The President would like to remind the council that when he rings the bell, it is meaningful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u35	Mr. President. I believe that it has been very positive when a new president took over in the United States, and so immediately there has been a change of international community policy to form with the World Health Organization and that the United States returns to the Paris Convention. It is in the exact sense that the nations have to deal with the threat and problems of our day. Of course, when it comes to pointing to the climate and pointing to the health threat the crowning virus epidemic has shown us to be a real disaster that affects all mankind. However, I am placing a question mark on how much emphasis is actually being made when it comes to what has been classified as a security and defense in the others, perhaps sadly, the classic sense that has been put into those words, i.e. Security and defense on the military field. That's what I think I'm going to find out. And because there was mentioned a two - sided security partnership through NATO, we believe in the left green that it is totally wrong to discuss the matter that does not guarantee real security, either Iceland or the rest of the world, so we should resign from the defense agreement and we should resign from NATO. At the same time, of course, we are to celebrate all cooperation in which the nations of the world come together to discuss the real problems, and it's great that the United States has come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u36	Mr. President. Today, the U.S. policy has long been not to place too much focus on free trade agreements with other countries. Of course, the NAFTA deal is important, but beyond that, it's pretty thin for them. These are generally very specific contracts rather than general agreements. Still, there is reason to wonder whether Iceland can either double-sided or in the field of EFTA, after some sort of vacation deal with the United States in the next few years. This would most likely have to be associated with some other procedure, e.g. The environment and the like. But there's still a lot to do for us, so I really want to encourage it. But let's just talk about the environment. I mentioned in my first talk that the U.S. International Leadership has fallen a bit in recent years, and many countries are coming in. Some theories in international studies believe that there can be a multiplicity world in which more countries come forward and share their prime responsibility, rather than that there is one great power in the world. But this international position of leadership is not something that countries receive free of charge. They receive it by pursuing a very broad and open foreign policy. There are many countries trying to go that way today, and of course we should celebrate it and take advantage of what small state we are in trying to make good changes. Environmental issues are key because we know that the United States is one of the largest pollution sites in the world, China is different, and all large countries have a tremendous impact on climate change. [[The president calls.]] If we can work together to help and even work together in these lands to reach a better conclusion, that is positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u37	President. I wanted to come in for a minute, in addition to my first talk, the Internet Security case. Many have mentioned increased cooperation in the area of security and defense, and there are natural issues that we have discussed several times in the conference hall. I think there's a platform for closer cooperation between the nations, especially with the Internet security issues. Another thing I wanted to mention today is democracy. Some have mentioned the issue of equality, that is exactly where we Icelanders have a good story to tell, and we would like to increase cooperation in human rights, especially in equality with the United States. But in the leading of the election, not only now but also the last election in the United States, democracy has been a great debate, of what value it is, and how fragile it is. Therefore, things like intelligence and false stories are connected that undermine democracy. In the United States, these elections have proved to be very apparent. The North countries are very prominent in this area, and we in the Northern Council have emphasized democracy and Iceland's presidency 2020, in the Northern Council, was one of our priorities in the prehumanity programme, to protect the democracy, under the emphasis of information and false news. I pictured myself working together in this field with the United States, not only Iceland, but even the North countries and the United States. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yeah, time's up. I thank you for the sound, and I can't wait to hear the answers. A senator and a minister to the preceding questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u38	Mr. President. Only forward on the subject. America is a great empire. No doubt about it. We need to deal with it as best we can, it's our interests, and it's complicated, as many speakers have come in. These include the Arctic and the environment, which are naturally very extensive in this context, followed by security and protection. We're in association with the United States in NATO, and I think it's very important to participate in the United States and our cooperation with them in various forms of security and protection, in broad terms, is primarily going through our cooperation in NATO. Then there are other big business issues, which allow you to establish hopes that the United States will increasingly disappear from Trumpur's policy and its emphasis on putting the United States first in its first place and having two-sided contracts with the state, instead of doing them with multi-sided contracts. It will be exciting to see how the United States will behave within the International Business Organization and especially if it will change, whether they will be involved again, we should say, WTO's jurisdiction in business disputes they have not made, and in fact, it was begun during Obama's reign. [[The president calls.]] Having a strong international rule with good follow-up is what Iceland and I need most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u39	Mr. President. I welcome the positive sounds that I hear in general at the Senate Hall regarding the change in presidents and these creative thoughts and suggestions that are presented in the discussion of our dealings with a new president and with the new U.S. government. The difference between Joe Biden and Donald Trump is extraordinary, but there is no difference more obvious than when they talk about the causes and consequences of global warming and human rights and measures in those areas. Trumpur's climate policy was no less than a tragic accident, but it was under his control of 200 regulations and the laws on environmental and climate issues are weakened or completely eliminated. In his phrase, Joe Biden spoke of four main points: Covid-19, economic contractions, racism and rasism, and climate change. Because some have talked about this discussion getting started too quickly, I would like to remind them that during the first few days of their office, Joe Biden took action. The United States has again become part of the Paris convention. He halted the development of Cayston XL conduct and withdrew some 100 regulations published by Trump in the practical use of fossil fuels and contamination in environmental protection. In the administration of advisers in the government, it was evident that the climate situation is very much present in Bidens's new government, whether in the case of a financial minister and its emphasis on climate change and green tax policy, a new secretary of transportation, who puts enormous weight on climate issues and then, of course, special advises on climate matters, John Kerry, who also has a special position when it comes to national security. I also liked to hear from the highest. Secretary of state that climate would be a strong contact area in the relations of the countries. I repeat my proposal for a special climate agreement between the two states. And because it was asked specifically about him, I'd like to remind you that Biden has stressed the link between economic action and growth directly involved in climate activities with the development of environmentally-friendly energy sources and infrastructure, with emphasis on sustainability. There's an opportunity for Iceland. There is an opportunity for us to improve in this regard. I agree with that too. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned the sex match, agree completely with that. [[The president calls.]] Biden and his people will emphasize it and have already done so, sex equal rights, queer people's rights, rights and protection for immigrants and others. [[The president calls.]] All of these are good and important messages that have been presented here. I think this will also strengthen us, the council and the Minister, in carrying on this message from the council after the United States's four-year decay period. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - I'm asking respect, Mr President, to go ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u40	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A prominent man, as well as someone else's frustration. The delegates for the discussion here, which I have found to be both beneficial and upbuilding. I've tried to put it into practice as if I could talk about international matters in this field, saying that it's important. But better, if it's enough. However, I only wanted to review certain factors. First, I felt that there was a misunderstanding. paritaprevir For example, when he spoke of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, it could be understood that way, but perhaps I am mistaken. A senator, that the United States had been lying on us asking us for a vacation contract. That is a misunderstanding, and in fact, everything we've been able to do in our dealings with the United States is a misunderstanding because we've been applying for it. In fact, that is how it is generally in our interest, it is rare for us to receive calls as we are asked to have some of the issues we stress. This is the product of tireless work, and it is of course not surprising that cooperation has increased as much as it has seen in recent years. That's a very long road away. It's because of emphasis and it's about preparation and it's out of work. Here are some things that are very interesting about cooperation. I considered possible cooperation and increased cooperation, and people ask themselves, " Is that possible? I urge people to check out Harry Kamian, a substitute ambassador, who I had a meeting with this week. It's a good message, I think, from the Americans, to send an ambassador to Iceland immediately. The meeting we had was very upbuilding and kind, and this is totally consistent. It highlights the continuing expansion of the cooperation between Iceland and the United States. If that is the case, it is good. Of other matters I may not be going to do particularly, but my time is over, but I think that's a good idea when it comes to it. Senators are asking for a special discussion with the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u41	A respectable president. I welcome the discussion that has taken place here. In fact, I have often spoken up that we are discussing foreign affairs more frequently. Therefore, what a joy it is that the next part on the program is also on foreign affairs, a fine report of the highest! Foreign Secretary on foreign transactions. I'm going to protest, a respectable president, that we handle such important matters in a way that we deal in some form of agreement that there will be a very limited period of time for such an enormously important matter. Thus, the Independence Party, the largest group of 16 members, gets five minutes, non - members of Congress receive two minutes, and the least members receive four or five minutes. A respectable president. I've discussed it here before, that when we discuss reports, I feel better, and I don't talk about the same important report as when we're discussing afterwards, that we'll just follow Congress, let those interested and have something to put into the discussion, and let's go back to this conversation, which will be so fun here in this fine chamber when we're comfortable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u42	Mr. President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir That's one of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's comics. We are here discussing foreign affairs, and these are rarely discussed in this room. It is a very important group of subjects, and it is a man who needs to be here under a glaming bell. President. You just have to realize that it's a lawsuit that needs a lot more time. I would like to encourage the president of the council to review this case, that we can have a good time to discuss such an important case, and we don't have to sit under this nonstop bell from the highest level. A president who is now known for always being on the bell if you go one second ahead of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u43	They were critical of the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u44	Mr. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir I think it's Bryndís that Mr. Haraldsdóttir's daughter that we have more time and so direct the president of the Generals, who is sitting in the middle room, to discuss important foreign affairs like the ones we just completed, we had a very good discussion, and we're having other discussions. I have to confess, Mr. President, that I'm tired of having regular members of Congress in our area and talking about more discussions with foreign affairs in this council hall. Then the senators just do it, take the initiative in it, ask for a special discussion, ask questions, hold here talks. Let's just take the initiative instead of always complaining about the fact that every time you get laid, in foreign discussions, you need to discuss more. That's why this public speaker here, this speaker, is here to discuss the matter. Then the senators just take the initiative in it, and I'm impressed. Councilmen to do so more often.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u45	V.E.G. President. I admit I'm amazed, but I'm glad I'm here to ride the gang in this debate. A senator who has declared that she does not care for long and boring talks and asks for an increasing public speaking period. I agree with that, naturally. Middleclasses and I tend to be a bit of a man to discuss matters in the skin and discuss them well and do them well. Of course, I agree with this encouragement that we will discuss matters that are so important in foreign affairs well and carefully. But I have come first and foremost to rejoice over this conversion. paritaprevir The comics of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who encourages long and boring talks on foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u46	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to have discussions about foreign affairs as rewarding and even greater under this program as to the President's meeting board. But I just wanted to agree with what has happened to all of them. Of course, those who have mentioned that the session may be longer, although I am not necessarily calling for very long speeches, that is not a mark of long discussions and content. I don't think I'm revealing any secret when I only report that I'm serving as President of the Generalis, who is discussing a change in international activities. One of the suggestions I have made in this regard is to discuss the reports on the program, which will take one day for a discussion of the international work of senators, rather than to take a whole day in particular. Perhaps it would result in giving other members of the congregation who do not share in the worldwide work more opportunities to participate in the discussions, where we would be allowed to enjoy their presence and more than those who are directly involved in the international work of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u47	Mr. President. Even though I don't come back from the largest council here at the council, I can say for a moment. Haraldsdóttir But especially that the discussion is directed by those who are really interested in it. It is important that the quality of the discussion harmonizes with people's interest, and to that end I agree with requests that have made us more important in international matters, foreign affairs, in this body of Congress, and even in committees. It's a big world out there. We need to be much more active at using ourselves for Iceland's arrival. We've done a lot of things well, I'm not criticizing anyone right now, but looking at this a little bit in wide context and trying to do a little better. I think we all want to. All of us should be able to do so, but we do not necessarily lose ourselves in simpler affairs because this is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u48	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend the highest. The president, for example, for the accuracy of the bell sound, may point to a little longer. I was once the vice president of the council, and I received this message from a woman from Skagga, leading them to the highest. President. With regard to foreign matters, it is true. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir says that, of course, we are expected to take the initiative and set matters straight. I just want to make time, not just for our report, but also for special discussions earlier. I think, for example. uncomfortable discussion, and this is something that needs to be examined by the Parliamentary Committee, that when a verbal and then a ministerial servant is allowed to close the discussion, they will have one and two minutes to take up the questions and answer the members of Congress. I think we should look to it only if and when we make possible changes in the rules of a special discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u49	The president would like to state the bell rate that certain criteria apply to him. Right away. Congress officials do not complete their case when the president hits a bell, and they are not likely to finish it, in the end, the beating becomes quite high and regular. It won't change as long as this President sits here in a chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u50	Mr. President. I just want to say, because of the discussion that took place in this report, that people have to keep in mind the context of these things. The work programme had long been established that there would be discussed reports of international committees. In addition, it was agreed to take one special discussion in foreign affairs and that this would not be all at any other expense but to negotiate a limited and relatively short talk period for this special report. No doubt, it would be a matter of speech, and it would be a good request that she be discussed here. However, this is not a report on the request of the General Assembly or a regular travel report. Here's a very special report. A minister has arranged for her to be discussed at the council, and this was well received. However, that discussion was not necessarily a whole or a half of a day. You see, Mr. President, time, including speaking time, is a limited resource. We're running out of time for Congress. There are a number of requests for special discussions. [[The president calls.]] There are more advisers who are interested in reporting, and we need to place all of this. Wait a minute. Councilmen who just watch the debate frame in each case and feel that it is not bed - room enough to bear in mind the large context of the parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u51	Mr. President. This is the first time I've ever been involved in discussions about the President's conference board, so I thought I'd take advantage of the opportunity. As everybody knows, I'm a man of peace in all I'm doing, but I wanted to thank you very much for what's happened. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in. Being part of a large body of council members limits much of the freedom of speech on many matters. I think a lot of people here have figured that out a long time ago. This is something that needs to be taken care of. Special discussion - two minutes and two minutes. We'll never find out. So it is only very important. Parliamentaries who want to participate in discussions that they have the opportunity to do so. It's just that if you're part of a major body of Congress, you're a good judge of the Congress that has special discussions and speech sessions in particular matters at the council. I'm done, one second left.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u52	A respectable president. I thank you for this opportunity to introduce to the House of Congress The Report Forward march! Iceland's foreign trade policy. It's a turning point, but this is the first time that's being discussed in one place all the contracts associated with Iceland's foreign trade. It also provides information on the effect of the pandemic on international relations and how the foreign service has worked hard to limit the impact of the pandemic to Icelandic export and defend Icelandic interests. Ever since I've been in office over four years ago, I've worked very hard to make sure that Icelandic companies live in the best commercial industry in foreign markets. Freedom in international commerce is simply a matter of central importance for a small, open economic system, such as Iceland. During the first few months in office, I had a detailed analysis of how to make the foreign service more efficient and to use funds and resources better to care for Iceland's interests. Many changes followed. This included increasing emphasis on the vacation trade as well as the use of export tools, promotion of new market services and interests, insurmounting new laws on Iceland that make the cooperation of employment and the government with foreign applications much more targeted. Why should I be recalling the changes that have taken place since I took over the office of foreign ministers? This is because I believe that these changes have shown their importance in a crisis during the past year and that they have been introduced at the time of the pandemic. The Foreign Service has not left its mark to support our export companies. We've set up a special business watch where companies can get the help of foreign services 24 hours a day, we have a problem that is urgent to solve. It is also important to mention the work level set up by a contract with an Iceland lab where an enterprise can have one place to get information on the possibility of supporting job development projects in developing countries and elsewhere. A respectable president. As the report shows, march! Iceland's foreign trade policy is the United States, with the largest individual business in Europe, but most of Iceland's trade is with Europe. In 2019 over 80% of all Iceland's export to Europe, and about two thirds of all imports came from there. The percentage of exports to the 28 European Union was about 70%, but if Britain, now a no longer a part of the EU, the percentage decreases to 60%. Britain is thus the largest market for Icelandic goods. As I have noted earlier, the figures are misleading about the Netherlands, where much of our export goes through Rotterdam and from there on the other market, also outside Europe. I pay attention to the fact that in a business report the results of analyses on the effects of possible involvement in the EU customs union. It shows that the influence of Iceland's membership to the customs alliance would result in significant changes in customs and tolls in many products, including led to the first development of tolls and to show that in addition to the increase in averagetolls, the costs of the uptake of new customs would be up to 30 million euro. So I think it's clear where we Iceland's best interests are in terms of business with Europe. In 2019, half of Iceland's income came from the European Union's service export and about three quarters of the imported service. The United States, however, was the largest market for Icelandic service in 2019 or about 30%, with 12% as the second largest in Britain. The report contains a detailed discussion on the International Business Organization, WTO, and the importance of the international trading system for countries such as Iceland, which rely so much on foreign trade. The international trading system has been built up over decades by the decommissionment of business barriers, such as customs and technical business barriers, increasing transparency and other improvements. Such a rule is of utmost importance to smaller countries, where it limits the potential for larger countries to use emancipation in business. The last miseries have been on the rise, and the system established within the International Business Organization, to settle and resolve differences, has been upset. Iceland is one of the countries that fight protection against free trade and protect the international business system. Then Iceland has also been on the front of a program for WTO discussion on the status of women in international commerce. It's not long since we celebrated the quarter anniversary of the EEA Convention, which is the largest and deepest free market deal in Iceland. Unrecoverable access to our Europe's internal market, provides stability in foreign trade, and at the same time creates space and freedom to make new markets for our goods and services. The report explains the use of tollvota in agriculture. In 2019 the European Union's import industry was fully new, but the exports of Iceland to the EU were only partly used. About 57% of the tollota sheep were new, while more than half went to Britain or 36% of total covets. This results in a large percentage of the bullet and cheese transported to the EU through Rotterdam and from there on the market outside the EU and is therefore not considered to be a fully new host. In view of this, I have requested a discussion with the European Union to correct this imbalance. The report also deals extensively with EFTA and Iceland free market agreements that ensure greater access to the number of markets around the world. Overall, Iceland's free trade treats reach 74 countries and territories and to less than 3.2 billion people. Of these, three contracts are waiting for EFTA. That's the deal with Indonesia, Ecuador, Guatemala. A free trade deal between EFTA and Mercosur, Argentina's customs alliance, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay is prepared for signing. That's EFTA for negotiations with India, Malaysia, and Vietnam. When the above agreements become valid and if the current EFTA negotiations work, Iceland will have a free business relationship with a state of less than 5 billion people, two out of every three people on earth. The report also discusses other agreements that play an important role in ensuring the interests of Iceland in foreign trade. Alternatively, e.g. There are two fiscal and investment agreements that reduce the risk and cost of enterprises on foreign activities. In 2018, I signed a twofold tax agreement with Japan, and I have a contract to negotiate with Chile, Singapore, Bulgaria, and Germany. On the day before yesterday, I spoke with a foreign secretary of foreign trade in Australia about a twofold tax contract, but it is hoped that it will be completed this year. The Ministry of Economics makes this contract on behalf of Iceland. Air travel contracts are essential for all airlines to work at international markets and to maintain extensive air transports along the outlands. During my time in office, there have been a contract signed on the Ukraine, Morocco, and Mozambique, and a declaration of will was made to Japan that pays for direct air transports to the country. Then a contract on these matters was signed and signed against Britain. Air travel agreements were also signed against Israel, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Burkina Faso, Jamaica, and Rwanda. The importance of this global contract network for Icelandic employment does not need to be largely debated, especially in view of the fact that international vacation and commercial markets are expected to continue to move to the east. There is an increasing number of intermediate classes that have adopted new habits of consumption. Of course, close markets will be on the move, but it is clear that there will be great opportunities for companies of Icelandic exports in remote areas. The report also discusses changes in northern regions, increases in the interest of remote countries in the region, and opportunities and interests of Iceland as a northern state. A spirit of self - control must be a walking guide in our work in the north. Another report will be published in the following few years that will address business opportunities in the north and how Iceland's interests will best be maintained in this global area. A respectable president. As I mentioned at the outset, I have placed my role as minister of foreign business ever since I took office over four years ago. Many things have happened back then. The economic cooperation of Iceland and the United States has been established, and Iceland's bill, which is an important step towards improving the access of Icelandic investors and trade partners to this most important business of ours, has been submitted to the U.S. Congress. As has been the case with Japan, I have led business representatives to Japan, Russia, India, and the United States. The books on the Iceland and China Free Trade Convention have been signed which means that the contract is finally working as well as exporting both agricultural and marine resources from Iceland. In addition, EFTA has made a free trade deal with Ecuador and Indonesia and the revised agreement with Turkey, and the agricultural contract in Iceland and Israel has also been updated. There's an EFTA and Mercus signing deal. In fact, it has been a priority for all of my political processes to fight for the best possible interests in foreign markets and that the interests of business at home are good and solid. In the past, I was chairman of the EFTA Senate Committee, and I have always had ambitions for this class, and I have become aware of the importance of foreign trade for the life of all Icelanders. The services of the Icelandic company need to be at best to ensure that in Iceland our companies will continue to thrive and grow to our advantage. It's a direct, clear and specific causal relationship between export prices and public biographies. Let's not forget it. So it is with great pleasure that I present this report here at the Council. I hope it will benefit the council and look forward to a conversation with you about the foreign business here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for a good overview. Now this report is made by the foreign service, and it is important to thank the good people who have come to it and all the best things. A minister listed here in the first person. After all that work, there are many people. First of all, I'd like to say that it's right that's happened at the highest level. Minister, perhaps not here today, but often before, about the European Union as a customs alliance. The European Union is primarily a toll alliance. Then you're thinking about the EEA we're in, what kind of alliance is it? Then I'd like to mention that the European Union is at a certain decade of decay, as shown by Jean-Jean-Claude Juncker in a talk he gave in Madrid, 2015. There he reviewed that it would be very dangerous for the European Union to get caught in this down cycle. I'd also like to mention that in Norway, there are increasing voices asking whether there is a better way to communicate with the European Union twice as much as the EEA, and it will be interesting to watch it. I'd like to ask a minister if this development in the Ministry is definitely not being monitored. Fourth, I'd like to point out that in an article in the numerator, Erna Bjarnadóttir says that in the report, 20 contracts are missing that are made along with the free shop agreements. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of how the agreements are missing in the report, and as soon as the agreements have any special impact on the outcome of our customs, for example, whether there is no need to add them to the report and review them from that. Mr. President. This report has a lot of good things to do. This is an overview of what we have been doing. It's missing, I feel, looking to the future more. It speaks of the new market, speaking of Asia, talking about Africa, talking about South America, and it's good to hear that the Mercosur deal is about to work out. We went to Brazil 2014 and met the U.S. Foreign Minister and Agriculture Minister and we pushed it only back then. We had a nice trip at the State Department. It speaks of strengthening a client's presence in Copenhagen, London, and Paris, and I have no doubt that it is needed. But I wonder if that is the way it is, as it also shows in the report, that Europe is falling behind and growth is elsewhere, if it doesn't need them too - I'm going to say the same because I am a spokesman for the development of foreign service rather than the other - to increase the presence or increase the number of commercialism and the integrity of our services in these new market countries. Therefore, we may be able to obtain housing from our friends in the North countries if necessary. I'd like to finally ask about the TiSA talks, very brief, but they are mentioned on page 5. 28th I think, if ever. Ministers are aware that they should be started again after the U.S. administration, and what Iceland's position will be in that discussion. There's a lot more I'd like to talk about, Mr. President, but more people have to get to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u54	Mr. President. There is good reason to commend the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry for a fine overview and a fine report and the necessary benefits. True, when I read her name, I felt that I was getting the Boy Scout magazine in my mailbox. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But we who are crawling over 50 will remember that when business with foreign countries was considerably smaller, when import restrictions made us less careful to choose. It was harder to shop for food, candy, furniture, and stuff like that. We were defending domestic production. At open trade policies, national producers showed what they are capable of and thinkable, snouting, and innovation, they increased by competitive competition. Happily, today we enjoy much more variety of products from all over the world, and we also carry Icelandic goods out to most of the world's corners. We need only to be careful and to buy more of what is next produced than that without such an open business is for our good, and that has been true to us. So I agree with the chart on the report that more cooperation and open and free international transactions are good. However, there must be a slight error when discussing a policy sheet dealing with increased vacations, and the way to eliminate various business barriers, the evidence for increased agricultural restrictions and customs. And while there is a great need to support farmers and food producers, and a huge number of opportunities are hidden in Icelandic production, market availability, especially customs, highly expensive support weapons, not only for the Kingdom box but also for consumers, and enough is now food prices in Iceland anyway. In addition, there is some strange twin population in that in the same open as given the argument for the increased agricultural practices needed, the importance of reviewing the customs available for the export of European marine products to the EU countries is referred to, although it is a very important matter. We talked quite a bit about the relationship between Iceland and the United States and climate. Then I think we just need to talk about climate and how integrating would require the European Job Building on Climate Action. Our contribution to increased exports to support the necessary increase in valuables also needs to be accompanied by the development of jobs that are really green. The demand for such things will be much more in the years ahead, so this discussion needs to be integrated with a discussion of how we are going to build up our professional lives. The United States has for its own time proposed a green revolution policy. I'm sure in most cases, if not all classes, there are views that can row in the same direction. Let's all agree on that, and then leave more valuable things to work, more contact with countries, and more than any more powerful and ambitious climate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u55	Mr. President. I'm going to start by thanking you very much for the report that we have here. It is in my mind a remarkable document and a sea of learning, especially for those who have fought for greater freedom in foreign trade. It reveals that Iceland's foreign trade policy is bringing results. We are becoming more open country than ever, and we are actually becoming more open country than most other European countries, although some may want to enter some of the alliances there. But let it lie in between things. Let it be seen in part that 90% of customs numbers are here without customs. Let's say in part that only 27% of customs numbers are free of toll in the European Union. However, there is something that humans should keep in mind when proclaiming that Iceland should walk in the European Union. This report clearly answers questions in this regard. It is also remarkable to realize how far we have achieved and to do many good things when it comes to free trade agreements with other nations. There's all the classes, or at least Most, come to work. The vacation network we are part of by EFTA has led us to an increase in trade at this 870 billion market by 87%, and the importance of these countries in our trade has increased from 9% to 12% at the same time that the importance of the European Union has been decreasing. The opportunities in the future lie in just more and more business contracts, such as vacation agreements. We have opportunities for growth, especially in Asia and the Pacific. [[The president calls.]] I would like to thank the secretary of state very much for this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u56	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying thank you for this good report and a good summary of the current situation of vacation business and Iceland's foreign trade. This is a useful report, both to see strengths and weaknesses. I'm going to go over it a little, but I'm going to mention that the only thing I find boring about this discussion is that it keeps me from being at another meeting of the EFTA Committee, which is exactly the same time. I think we're both supposed to be there, but that's how it is, there's a lot to do. Let me start by saying that although this is a good report and over a lot of things, we received two reports from the State Department of State in December 2020, and one of them is an unscrupulous and interesting report, even though I have not been able to read it all, on Greenland, and on the importance of cooperation with it. Then, in comparison, there is this relatively thin report on foreign trade. Without minimizing Greenland or holding this report because it's really okay, there are some things I feel are missing in it. I would have thought that all Iceland's foreign transactions could, at least, be as much publicity as Greenland, just so they say. It's missing here, for example. An analysis of our short - term opportunities for international transactions, where our current national policy in various matters is getting in our way and preventing us from expanding our global business. You could, for example, be there. Name our policy in agricultural and marine practices, our policy of protection for which we have been in contact with many countries and, of course, will be able to prevent e.g. enlargement and development. The manufacturing technology where we have a lot of bad opportunities. Iceland's whales were mentioned earlier, but they've also got in our way, we're hurting us, they're trying to undermine our opportunities. But then there's just so many other things I can't even imagine where we could be getting into other waters, doing more business with other nations, and there's no reason to map it. It's just that there's a lot of chances. We must realize that the world scene is not the same as it was 30 years ago. After the Cold War, there was a balance in the world film that was marked by the rise of Europe, the importance of America, and the like, but now we look forward to a great rise in Asia, where there are overexploited business opportunities, where, as far as I can see it, we are not even trying to attend our business opportunities, except perhaps in the Nigerian market, which is a good market. But I would think it would be an amazing thing to do in such a country as Iceland to become the first country to achieve a collective and general free trade deal with the African community as a whole. This is an opportunity to create the basis for international exchange with an entire continent on a single board. This is a conversation that is complicated and time - consuming, but it would completely change our position in the international business system. We must also realize that the World Trade Organization has been under great stress over the past few years. Justices in the International Business Court have been unable to be appointed, and this has been the case with certain attacks on the Agency and other factors that have weakened the position of everyone and that of Covid. Actually, it's done well over the Covid and the State Department's reaction to that situation in the report, that's very well done, and it was a good job, so I celebrate it. However, in view of the fact that the World Trade Organization has had this blow on us, we may have to take a great deal of pride in trying to solve the present problems, there are many, and they are complex. The other thing is, maybe we should look inside a little bit about making even more good use of Iceland. She's well new, but she might be better. In addition, further networks of EICs and business agencies need to be built here and around the world to make it easier for Icelandic companies to work on business contracts and build up their business networks. Just to rephrase what I was talking about with manufacturing techniques, I mentioned in a discussion during the days of flight energy exchange. There's a mass syrup ruined an opportunity for Iceland if we were to prepare to go to a global market. Instead of being just consumers of the latest technology in flight, or anything, artificial intelligence, what has been called the Fourth Industrial Revolution, etc., we would be producers, create the future, and move it out to everyone. It's an opportunity Iceland has. We have intelligence. We are naturally a small nation, so we cannot expect too much. However, we must not overlook the fact that some of our limits in international transactions are simply because national and national policies are often not fully correlated with exporting. That's why the Piratars, with the development of the Agency's move, have repeatedly proposed sustainable industrial policy because we have the possibility to coordinate our innovation and development and the like with foreign trade policy and make it run together, let this build up each other. The countries that have done their best in foreign trade over the years are the ones who see it as a direct and normal continuation of their national employment policy. There are opportunities, the need for more cooperation, etc. I'm gonna call it a day and thank you again for this fine report. Maybe someday we'll see a version of two.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u57	Mr. President. We're here on foreign transactions and this new report. There is no need to list the importance of this kind of business lifeline for each nation. I'm going to spend my time considering just a few things that I think about to consider in the continued shape of foreign transactions. These are factors that governments can either set out as conditions or as related factors or as incentives to enterprises, foreign or domestic. What basic provisions do we see when we are dealing with foreign business? I've cut down six points and I'm just going to cover them, starting with the equilibrium between each country's import and export. It is very important not to have all the eggs in the same basket and to have this variety on both sides, and in each country, to try to balance them there as well. Our situation in the world is such that it often wants to be, so we move out to very many countries less than we move in from them. This may be the case, but it is still possible to look for this balance as far as possible. Eco-exports need to be taken care of. We keep talking about the climate impacts and the greenest business policy. That's something we hadn't heard 20 years ago, or little at least. That's where it's about the transport process. It's about distances. Is it given that we should place more emphasis on the Pacific than on anything else? And that, of course, is the effect of the production itself, whether it is our import or export. For example, consider hydrogen, which we will no doubt waste time and energy on producing because it is one of the major sources of energy in the future, or the effects of the products we are thinking of moving in. We know very well the decay of some import products and the question of whether or not to take into account the factors in which we choose, whether it is in import or export, trader, product species and presenting them, etc. Third, that's what I call business with responsible producers. Yes, it is well - known, whether it is clothing production, food production, or something else, that much of the stories depend on how the product is produced when it comes to the right workers. Another point that I've missed is the respect for human rights in business countries. We all remember the discussion about the Philippines and the vacation contract. We've talked about China many times. Now that there are reports of human rights violations in China, Qinghai, Northwestern China, we recall this discussion and remember again how we deal with countries where human rights are not in order. I've registered business as a development team. Well, that's one of the things that has been put up as part of our climate operations, but we know that this has also been added to Iceland's development team over its heads, especially now that private companies were dragged into it or non-party members of the state. Businesses that are important to us too. Then it's close to society. We're doing business with the countries around us, whether these North-West Europe countries, that we need to develop and strengthen in the light of what I've been saying, although only because of climate or environment. So here we are talking about the balance between import and export. We're discussing the ecology. We're discussing business with responsible producers. We're discussing business as a developing team. We're discussing a business where respect for human rights comes into the picture and we're discussing close society. As we continue to develop our business environment, I feel that this is something we need to stress in particular. I simply ask the secretary of state whether he agrees with me in this. I may have forgotten something, but this is what I think is the focus of business policy for the next few years, even decades. I'm celebrating this report, Forward march! It is not only an improvement in such a report but also an entirely complete, positive course that you have seen before. I'm not saying that she was fragile in herself. I'm not saying that she was fragile when you've been trying to get a perspective on her. But here she is at least Come on. There are, however, unique countries that can be discussed in this context. We've been through some good reports on Bgret, and it seems that there's a good movement in a positive direction. With a new report, we have emphasized the importance of increasing business with Greenland. We've had a lot of business with Russia in the past, and I'm asking, and there's another question to the foreign minister: Is there a head at all possible business with Russia, unchanged, whether on their part in the world or on the grounds of the conditions we place in such a business? Do we see an increased trade with Russia in the coming years or decades? Canada is a country I have often wondered about that we have not achieved more business relationships than we have seen, I would even take it past the Pacific. Then, in particular, it is the vacation contract with the United States, which, of course, is really important to us if he ever made it. I simply ask, What would be the next step with the new government in furthering that issue? Well, at least that's it. Three questions to the highest. Minister of the state of foreign affairs of my meditation on the basis or support of Iceland's foreign trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u58	Mr. President. Forward march, report to the highest. Secretary of state. This is good, for we do not want to stop. It's a good report. There are many fascinating things in it, and in many respects it highlights the importance of international relations for us Icelanders. There are also some assignments of foreign service that are of utmost importance to all of us and that appreciate how we dealt with and are dealing with the problem that arose with Icelandic citizens around the world in connection with Covid. That's where foreign service went very well. There is no news for people in this hall that foreign trade and communication with the outside world are particularly important to Iceland because we are a small nation and cannot be enough of ourselves. Therefore, it is vital that we do business that is most desirable in many places, so that we too can develop a wide range of employment conditions that depend on a good standard of living. Thus, it is absolutely clear that foreign transactions are of utmost importance to us. There are constantly changes in the world of foreign trade. We discussed earlier, in connection with the change in power in the United States, the importance of the International Business Agency and how the United States has reduced the importance of international commerce during the reign of Trumps, but we all hope that this will change. But I didn't mean to repeat it. Everything is subject to change. I cut especially after the Supreme One. The minister of state spoke of nothing, I hope that I am correct, about Britain, and about Bgret, and the opportunities there. I miss something not to be some sort of analysis of what's going on and will happen. Britain is now removed from the European Union. There will be changes. There's gonna be some changes in export patterns. A significant export has been from Britain to Europe and other countries. The report specifically shows that Rotterdam is an important shipship, but a large export goes through Britain. What effect will this have, e.g. about transporting fish? Will he go directly to the mainland, but will he not have anything to do with the United Kingdom? It is very important in my opinion to analyze this better, and in view of earlier discussions about the tremendous opportunities that Bgret would create Icelanders, I miss it only in this vision of the future. Ministers that he does not consider it better in another fine publication. Also, there is no need to worry about the fact that the person listed here thinks we should be much closer and closer to the European Union and should go through it for many reasons, including the following: Business and cultural and political issues as well as environmental issues, etc. But like the highest. A minister of state is tamed, and he goes out of his way to try to decorate the European partnership and publish from an old list of customs numbers to show how wrong he is going to cooperate with the European Union. I find this to be a few poems from a top report. Secretary of State and his approach to these matters generally, always trying to round it down to the percentage and number of toll numbers. Of course, Iceland's involvement is not about the number of toll numbers or average tolls at all. It's just so far from there. There is no question about whether membership in the European Union is good or bad for Iceland, not at all. It is being embellished and deliberately misled, in my opinion, the discussion on this big and important matter that affects our future relationship with Europe, and it disappoints me. But it's not the first time I've had such a disappointment, and I've had a place to speak at the highest. Minister on that, but I can't change him, and I'm sure he won't either.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u59	A respectable president. I want to be like everybody else first by saying thank you very much. Minister for good report. It is very extensive, and it has excellent statistics and a good overview of most of the things involved in our foreign trade. I would also like to agree with others, but I would be interested in getting a report or a subsequent hearing from the Ministry, where there would be further analysis of Iceland's opportunities for the future. There is a great movement in markets, and the report that we will discuss here is a special chapter on the new market. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned, for example. Africa and much growth there and Asia and other areas of the world Although it may not be necessarily eating now, there is a great growth in these areas that we need at least to keep an eye on and that we need to analyze our long - term opportunities. International business, it may not have to be spoken up, is the natural basis for economic growth in Iceland and welfare. We need to be constantly alert to new markets and opportunities, but at the same time care for our clients and the markets we have already won. I also wanted to answer a question to the highest level of my life. A minister as to whether he feels the need to open up more business offices, not embassies, but business offices, far and wide around the world. I think there's something that we need to look at and evaluate the need for it. Perhaps that has already been done. It'd be interesting to hear about it. I had planned to study only chapter 6 of this report, but it contains a discussion of a new vacation contract other than the one we've done with EFTA, i.e. Like the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and China, two-sided vacation agreements we've done with. Our free shop deal with China went into effect - I've written it here - July 1, 2014. It involves delinquency on customs in most export products of the Icelanders. According to the statistics provided in this report, our business with China has increased somewhat since the contract went into effect, and the number of Chinese tourists has increased dramatically to this land. Before the Covid epidemic struck, it was expected that there would be a direct flight from China that would still have increased the flow of Chinese tourists to Iceland. We just need to see, when this epidemic begins, how it develops. It's just that time is already over and you've barely begun. In short, I would like to hear from a minister: Are we making full use of the opportunities in our contract with China? Does a minister see the need to take some special action to make him more useful? I wanted to discuss the air travel contracts, especially the contract position with Japan, a possible contract, as well as business with Greenland. [[The president calls.]] That's how you have to do it on a dog's pocket; excuse me, top dog. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u60	A respectable president. We're here to discuss Iceland's foreign business policy. Forward march! is in the publication. I don't know if the image on the front of it means anything. There's a man on a walk, and there's nothing but zigzag into the wasteland. I hope there's not an example that Iceland's on its way to an empty mess. I don't think so, though. I think I'll just have to start with this discussion, kissing the highest. Secretary of State for what it was found to be his findings in connection with the Ministry, that despite an increase of 25% and 53% in the development community, the Ministry's expenses would have decreased by 2% and the embassy would have been reduced by four. Good job. I hope this is just the first step to get to the top. A minister will clean up and save, but he will see at the same time that foreign affairs are in good hands and effective. I don't know if this Covid epidemic has a direct bearing on how foreign affairs are going to go, but I think there must be a lot of it to simplify things, save travel and time, and make everything more efficient. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is kind of the only Ministry that's really drawing together and in a really cool way. Sadly, the expansion of the system is still tremendous in other problems. I hope they set a good example for the Ministry of State and take a little action. Another thing we need to talk about and remain a little on the program today is the unprecedented judgment against Navalní, Russia. It is different when protesting in Russia or here outside the General Assembly. A man was at least not beat down and handcuffed. He got to protest in peace. Sadly, though, the pictures you see from Russia are frightening. It's really amazing that when he was completely unconscious, he could be imprisoned for breaking parole. I don't understand how a unconscious man is supposed to make sure he reports so he doesn't break parole. This, however, probably just shows the difference between democracy and what might be called a dictatorship. I'm sorry, the government there just doesn't work. And it also worries you when you see how you work and how you hit the protesters. Ten thousand people have been imprisoned without law, and I fear this is just the beginning. Then there is another threat - the time is running out of time - China, which is now a tingle of muscles against Taiwan, and that may not be new to them, but it has started again. Then, too, all their primary concerns are betrayed in Hong Kong. It is a relatively new agreement that they made with the British in their time. It also shows this senseless violence toward those who want justice and who are protesting. Of course, it is the basis for democracy to allow people to express their views and protest. But I think the highest. Secretary of state is on its way, and this is as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u61	Madam President. I'd like to begin my case with calling the highest order. Secretary of state to congratulate you on an important report and helpful. Foreign trade is a source of prosperity and prosperity. We've known them since our land mines. We've never been better in all ages of Iceland than when we were free and never worse than when we were under monotonous business practices. If we look at the past century, our economic history is that we broke out from poverty to the rocks, later to wealth, through foreign trade because we had access to markets for our products. That is why it is very important that we do so well in these matters, such as the Supreme Court. The minister of the State is making this report, and it is beneficial to have an overview of these agreements all together, free trade agreements, and the international commercial system established by the nations. On page 18. 17 is a remarkable figure that can be produced in various ways. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason made a very wise move, saying that it would naturally lead to our having the most open commercial states. That is correct, but it may also be added that countries that we would like to compare ourselves with, such as Denmark, Sweden, and thebaltne states, would be more measured on that scale, and it only emphasizes to me what a great opportunity we have in this regard. Mr. President. I'm like a lot of other guys. The speakers here are very busy with the talk that took place here in September 2018, the first visit by Pence Vice President of the United States, at the highest level. A minister wrote a free trade agreement, and later in the same month, he learned that the government was interested in making such a deal. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to use this opportunity and make reservations and emphasize the cooperation of our Middle Class members with the highest degree. Minister in all his efforts to promote and improve our dealings with the United States in business matters as well as in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u62	Madam President. I want to thank you, like other members of the council that have come up here, for this fine report and the work behind it by the staff of the State Department. It is clear that it is useful as a summary and a summary of agreements related to Iceland's foreign trade. I also welcome what is stated in this report, and I agree on the effect of Covid-19 on Icelandic exports. It's good to take it together, so it's in the way. But if it's a policy plan, I really doubt because I feel that I lack what the report is, Iceland's foreign trade policy. There's a little bit of a shortage. But there are interesting sounds in the report about sustainability and its importance when it comes to business, even though I would like to see a much clearer perspective and policy than there are here. And in an consideration of the impact of climate change on business, which, as my knowledge is almost on a swamp film, could have been more creative suggestions and a clearer view of policy. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy, president of the EFTA Committee, spoke about it and called for more precise diagnostic work and I'll answer to that call. Senator. I just want to talk to you about it. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was holding here, speaking of the number of toll numbers as some sort of adverse judgment on the EU. The number of toll numbers tells no history and is primarily explained by EU agricultural policy. And it's quite remarkable to hear the senator - who unfortunately isn't sitting here in the Hall but hopefully he's listening - talking about Iceland that opens up a country in the world when the same person supports the Icelandic Guardian on serranskin and other foods. It's kind of awkward. Perhaps it is also right to remind members and others in the 27 EEA countries as a boy. A senator was distracted by customs, customs barriers, and the greatest trade between them. But speaking about Europe, I would also have wanted to see in this good report the highest. Secretary of State clarifying policies in Europe's business and business opportunities. Europe is the biggest continent when it comes to exporting goods and services from Iceland. I'd also like to draw our attention to the fact that in Iceland's policy firms, Icelandic companies said that they wanted to strengthen themselves on markets in Europe, North America, and China. We should listen to this carefully. These areas of the world still have broken opportunities, especially in Europe, which is our biggest business and market area. I'd like to encourage the highest. Foreign Minister to use his last month in office to listen carefully to this call from the head of Icelandic companies and to support and support Icelandic companies at an even higher level of financial and market in Europe. Otherwise, I thank you for this fine overview and fine document that uses us as a summary, and hopefully also as part of a clearer work with our foreign trade policy. It would be good and interesting to hear the highest. Minister of State is bringing some input into my European thinkers and of the call made by the Icelandic firm in the market survey of the National Institute of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u63	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank you for this report. If I had the slightest suspicion that young people would be watching this broadcast or listening to our language here, I would surely encourage them to examine these matters because the report is accessible and comprehensive about what, in my opinion, is the most important thing for the benefit of the nation, which is, of course, man's business between us. Of course, for a small nation, a small island nation like ours, international transactions are key to economic prosperity here. This report seems to me to be on its own. But besides, I'm going to give her a nice report on the EEA Treaty as well as a recent report on Iceland's opportunities and communications with Greenland, which is also discussed in this report. Perhaps I prefer to miss the report, but I'm not going to rule out the mention of it somewhere after I've read it -- it's an consideration of the criminal action the Russians use in the hands of the Icelanders and other European countries in the wake of the embargos we participated in, in my opinion, in my opinion, in Russia. In a chapter on the International Business Organization, it is discussed in detail about the dealings of the United States and China and the challenges and opinions involved in the International Business Organization after China's entry there, which might have been a good way to mention the lack and failure that the International Business Agency has shown to the Russians and after these penalties that go contrary to Russia's agreement with other nations and their participation in the International Business Organization. But I'd like to mention one last thing, and all of my views are known in terms of customs and other, and opening the border here, I don't have to swerve it here, and I know that the Foreign Minister can't answer my question. But I have been aware of what seems to be a review of the European Community customs contract if they plan to reduce international exchanges with agricultural products between Iceland and the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u64	V.E.G. President. This is important, and as soon as it is enjoyable and to learn that policy issues are presented, as is done in the report Forward march! and for the highest business. Ministers, how to view the future and the major challenges assessed in relation to the situation, the outbreak of the epidemic, and everything in relation to the developments that have taken place over the past decades in national and international trades. The movie's clear. The reactions, actions, participation, various tasks, and emphasis that are considered in the report will become more specific and, at the same time, much more likely to be effective. After reading this report, I feel that this is just getting out of the picture. This has been shown in this discussion to be part of the EEA, free trade agreements and two-sided contracts, as well as clear regulations and solid cooperation and increased freedoms, ensuring European immigrants access to markets around the world. The key, of course, is to strike down any walls or obstacles, and it is to lay the groundwork for a successful and mutual business between countries. Most of these agreements go on to make a mutual advantage so that nations can make the most of the production programs that are suitable for creating goods and services. Thus, the superiority of nations is better used, and it produces a mutual profit that leads to an absolute benefit. It's a core of everything we call foreign trade. This mutual advantage is the basis for the prosperity we have built up, the welfare, and the improved life - styles. This trend is greatly highlighted in the report and in the context of the report. looking at the percentage of foreign trades of total honors in comparison with other nations. The bioavailability of Icelandic companies on the market is, of course, key and can be measured, as in the report, from our becoming members of the EFTA 1970s and then 1994 involved in the European Economic Areas. There is no doubt that the figures confirm the success of promoting the competitiveness of Icelandic companies. It is the wisest thing, as is emphasized in the policy presented here, to promote our participation in EFTA in order to converge the free - disposal network that covers 74 countries. I think it's finely tore up in the report how we look at the changes recognized to become; to share the traditional markets of North America and Western Europe, although there's certainly going to be a loss of opportunities, while other markets are moving forward, Asia, Africa, and South America. I think it's a good idea to continue working on this report and that it will be discussed here on a regular basis. Then we may be able to observe what is moving forward with this agreement. I want at the end, because you are aggressorly struck off the board of entering the European Union's customs alliance, saying, "There are times when the speciality of agriculture is being mixed up with a general argument about freedom of business. Agricultural conditions include agriculture, agriculture, protection, nature protection, climate change, tourism, food security. [[The president calls.]] We cannot take the agriculture, the special industry, and bring it into the world's grip on business freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u65	Mr. President. I appreciate the discussion as soon as I'm at the top. President, I'd like it to be longer. I particularly thank you for this report, which is the most legible I have seen in my system for a very long time. There are a few things I'd like to tap into this brief speech, and my mind looks a little bit east, I'll admit it, i.e. To Asia, it is well pleased with the emphasis that comes on. As noted here, and many of us are aware, Europe is 6% of the world's population. So it is impossible to conclude that we would be associating with that part of the world in a special way. As natural internationalists, we are members of the Middle Order, and we want to do business with a country all over the world. There are a few things about Asia that I would like to curious about at the highest level. Minister. That is especially in the case of flight, i.e. I mean, landing contracts or anything that had happened to China. I don't remember what the situation was about Japan, but I would have wanted to explain it, apart from the fact that there are a lot more countries there than these two, although Japan and China are naturally very important. I can't remember how many years since then, probably ten years, even more, I was told that the millions of dollars in China were as many as all the French people, so the middle class in China is likely to be the largest middle class in the world. We're supposed to see an opportunity there, and I'm sure they'll be here. I might have wanted a little of that from the highest point of view. Minister. There's also another thing I would've wanted to plug in here, and I miss a little bit of this report, that's our connection to Canada, where we've probably got most of the other cousins in the world. About two, three, four years ago, while I was in the West, I realized that the Canadian side was away from growing business with Iceland. I'd like to get an overview of that from the highest level. Minister if anything has developed in that case, since I don't think it's part of the report. I'd love to hear about it. But in other respects, I repeat my joys with my report and dissatisfaction, like the highest. President, with a very short talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u66	A respectable president. I didn't exactly notice how many questions I had, but I can promise you that I can't answer them in two minutes. But I am willing to give them an answer on other occasions and only as soon as possible. It is possible to get into the council's work in some way. Thank you for having a good discussion with me. Councilmen. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Senators criticize what is being done, but I draw attention to the fact that this is the first time that such a report has been made, and it can probably continue to work. There's a big difference between having nothing or having a report that's cool. In general, members of the Parliament were very pleased with each other. I don't fully understand how people come to the conclusion that this is not a agricultural issue, and this is certainly also a question of the climate. I can't ask you good questions now, can I? paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, in some respects a report. But I'm going to say one thing, a respectable president. It was hard to believe that in the EU business policy section of Iceland and the EFTA, this policy was compared to the business policy of the European Union, and it was simply said: the comparison says nothing when we're talking about customs. The comparison doesn't say anything? What, then, does it say when compared business policies? What's going on here? These are the facts, and the report is quoted as applying for participation in the European Union. In short, this is so that if we walk in the European Union and give up our business freedom, we no longer have 90% toll freedom, but we have 27%. That means products go up here, on most products. That's exactly what people and businesses are feeling. It is taken directly from these reports that we would need to put billions into new customs systems and increase the number of tolls by at least tens, even hundreds. It would impair competitiveness, e.g. The fishing road and the agricultural industry, though much less our tax freedom at that time, would increase the cost of resources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I got it. I got it. Senators to continue to discuss this report, and I really want to participate in that discussion. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the facts must be accepted. There is no freedom for us to enter the European Union. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u67	A respectable president. It's nice to see this case running out here. Over two years ago, I ran here in a drunk to finish 3rd. about my matter of Congress, not so much anger. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson, this was the change in the approach beans that have been extremely successful. Then I also said that there was more to be changed, and I have put it into practice at the Ministry of Justice to legalize specific arrangements for the siege of further confidence in people's protection and, of course, the human rights that people can walk around in our unconcerned society. With the bill that will be legal today, we trust the right of all of us and take an important step in increasing justice in these violations. I want to thank you. General and educational committees especially for the work that was carried out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u68	A respectable president. The matter was called back to the welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. There are factors involved in international commitments, including comparison of legislation with other Member States. The nominee explains itself, and the committee gives the agreement, but several members of the committee premonitions suggest that the case will remain unconvinced, and they do not have reason to make adjustments in their proposals at the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u69	A respectable president. I can't afford to give too long a talk here on this subject because it's not a traditional case in the sense that this is a traditional change of law. This is a case of dealing with the Korean epidemic and the emergency, as mentioned in February or March of the year. It is also taking the indication that there is a lack of legal rights to severe impairment of the rights of individuals and at the same time recognize the need for a complete review of these laws. In that light, I think it's not a traditional law bill. Today, the negative effects of the crown virus epidemic are becoming evident, and some are doing so. I have felt, however, that it is always referring to the epidemic as such, the viral virus itself, but not to measures taken to cope with the epidemic. I take note that the negative effects of the crown virus epidemic are so narrow because of the unambiguous effects of disease - prevention, both in this country and in many parts of the world. A recent analysis was published by an independent U.S. research agency, National Bureau of Electronomic Research, a country age old in which the next 15 years, it assesses it as such, will be about 1 million premature deaths due to antimicrobial surgery in that country, only to indicate the consequences of unemployment in that country. One million people. There is no doubt in my mind that various disease prevention measures had and, in the future, will have far - reaching health consequences. Nor should the fact that economic consequences, of course, affect human health. It is no coincidence that in lands where economic problems are difficult, people's health is often threatened. This case was called into question. The welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. ... aswanting aswrong. A senator who wanted a discussion on legal changes in the North countries, which are the countries that most likely share with us in the legal process. The committee discussed the bill, received information on the current changes in law, including in Denmark, and held one meeting on the subject. I would like to mention that recently, a few days ago, the first time in the history of the Danish Parliament was a 600 - page study report, the first time that the Danish Parliament has called for a study report on one particular subject, i.e. This case. The report is of all interest, not that I am a special spokesman for a research report and is calling for such things on the part of the Generalis, but on the contrary or on the contrary, I think there may be something to learn from the results of the study report published a few days ago by the Danish Parliament. It shows that it was an obvious mistake in Denmark not to reexamine the disease prevention laws before the epidemic of this Korean virus. Denmark's CDC is like the law in Iceland, back to its own years. In view of this, it is concluded that there was little time to make these changes when the epidemic was under way and that there was a rapid improvement in law. Legal changes in Denmark were carried out in March and April last year, and it seems to me that they are making the same adjustment as here on earth. The Danish study report concludes that this adjustment was made rapidly at the expense of the legislation and the democratic process, i.e. The state of justice. Finally, I would like to mention the suggested indications in this report. I think it's fine that I don't think I'm referring to a planned review of the total legislation, that one of the indications was that when an epidemic or an epidemic of people or countries come into existence in the situation we've been in, they immediately set up a special committee that would be arranged by specialists, not only in the field of disease or viral infection, but also in the field of economics and law, and that such committees of service should be open to the public so that all her speculations, counsels and other things are made public. It also points to that, at least it shows that there is no doubt in their minds that circumstances such as these require political leadership, political discussions, and the wide scope of the Lawgiver. Finally, I'd like to mention one more tip. It is stated that now, just in those words, there are new total laws that were adopted in Denmark, resulting in the compromise of all categories, where specific members of Congress are expected to be set up in these circumstances to be handled by the government before any action is taken. However, the main theme of all of this and the indication of the dance report is that both law and government decisions are bound to a staging process. This I think, a respectable president, should only study, not the fact that all the raw reports from foreign councils are to be swallowed up. Of course, many circumstances may be different, but much of this has made me feel very comfortable here, and I encourage all members of Congress to be concerned with it now on the basis of the total legal review.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u70	A respectable president. This is a more rapid period of recovery under the pre-emptive measures being used in the current epidemic. Here the rights of the city are being better assured, including explaining possible charges, and just as much as explaining clearly on the part of the Lawgiver the terms and measures being taken. It is a very important step that the council is taking here, and I would like to give special consideration to the head of the committee and the case. I want to thank the entire welfare committee. I want to thank the Ministry for our rapid and professional response when it was clear that we needed to have our hands faster in the fall. In view of the experience we came to include in our hand when this epidemic is under control, a global review of disease laws is at hand. It is of utmost importance what the Parliament has shown to be solid solidarity, carefulness, and objective development in this complex matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u71	V.E.G. President. For the council, the National Council report for Norwegian cooperation is held in 2020. It can be said that by 2020, the most strange year of the Northern Council's work was so far. I hope we don't get more years, but we can look at this experience positively. In order to cope with the situation, both staff and members of the council made significant changes in their way of handling the situation during the year. The work of the Governing Body was very powerful and was even more active in some respects than often before. We kept the right rhythms throughout the year, and many of the extra meetings were arranged on a short notice. We would have, for example. We could not have planned meetings in other countries and anticipated travel time and a number of costes. This made the Governing Body more flexible. We were able to react rapidly to circumstances that arose at times, and of course we used our telecommunications technology. The National Council offers interpretations of their meetings and the same had to be done at these telecommunications. The staff of the Governing Body was very focused on finding ways to use the technology. We needed, for example. To have a vote system in our systems and an interpreter system suitable for interpreters that worked well. Of course, it was a bit fragile at first. We did not necessarily do anything that we were going to do and a lot of things worked out. But we learned from all of this, and soon the meetings began to work very well. I think I can totally say that. In many ways, it was fun to participate and share in the challenges and solutions we found in this situation. I'm sure the North Council will live on this experience and perhaps take some things from her with him into the future. Councils of the North, such as the World Council and many, are looking to green solutions in their work. Not having to travel from country to country with its own costs and carbon tracks is an option, and we now saw that it is possible. I'm pretty sure we hadn't necessarily reached this stage in such a short period of time, but the Covid epidemic wouldn't have come in. We should always look at the bright side, but, of course, it's been a little weird sitting at home, in a room, more or less for the whole year, instead of meeting people and having the informal relationships that, of course, are necessary in and out of need. We can see that, of course, we can use technology more than we already have, but we too need to meet regularly and connect and to rejoice. It is part of the worldwide work as well as, of course, all other social activities. I'm not going to recite this report. It is available on the Generals web and is available there if people want to review it accurately. But I'm going to grab a few points from the report. Here, for example. discussed what the National Council is, what names are in the council and who live in the Iceland Department, etc. Before the Covid epidemic struck, I went with the vice president of the Northland Council and vice president of the Iceland Council of the Northern Pacific. paritaprevir This visit is reported in the report, with a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, visiting Scotland. We began to remember in March 2020 - or when was that? I haven't marked it specifically, looks like I was going over it yesterday. At any rate, it was early last year that we reached Scotland, offered the president of the Scottish Parliament. This visit was the initiative of the Scottish Parliament, and it was very good. We visited the president and had a meeting with him, and we also had a formal meeting with members of the council. There is a clear will in the Scottish Parliament for further cooperation with the Council of the North. Of course, things are going on just these months, weeks and days, and things are changing rapidly. There was a certain window opened, and an interesting time to observe the evolution of our friends from east of us, Scots and the British, and how all of this develops. National Council is and will be in very close cooperation with the British Parliament, and of course we want to continue developing contact with Scots and others interested in developing contact with the Council of the North. This trip was on January 30th, I see here in the data. The report refers to international activities and other trips that had taken place. I served as a representative of the Council of the North, along with Michael Tetzschner, a Norwegian senator, and Erkki Tuomioja, a Finnish senator, visiting the Polish Parliament, taking the Polish initiative. We meet there with the president of the Senate, Tomasz Grodzki, a member of the administrative body. There's a lot going on in Poland and some changes, some of them completely wronged at the beginning of the Northern Council of Human Rights, democracy, and the values of the state of justice. This was an important visit. It was good that the Council of the North held a formal visit to send a message, too. We will see if there is a continuation of intimate relations, but there is a greater will in Poland for more contact with the Council of the North, at least for a certain group who are then members of the government side. For years, the Council of the North has been closely cooperating with the Baltic Council, and representatives of the Council of the North are participating in the regularly held Baltic Congress. The same applies to the Benelux Council. A number of meetings were held there during the year, and for the first time, a three - sided meeting was held, i.e. with representatives of the Baltic Council, Benelux and the Northern Council. The one standing here. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir was among the subjects. There was talk at that meeting about the Covid epidemic and White Russland issues. That discussion took quite a bit of space last year, i.e. On White Russia matter, in particular. Nor is it seen what is developing in that area. As representatives of the Council of the North, we had a meeting with a representative of the antiande and their leader, Svetlana Tíkhanovskaja, both the work group involved in the affairs of White Russia and some representatives who had a special meeting. I don't quite remember when he was. It's quite a long report, so I'm not going to go after dates. But there's been a good conversation and a good tip to the Council of the North, all year long. These meetings with the leader of the government have been very good, open, and sincere, and there is great trust in one another. I wanted to draw special attention to community security and to them in connection with the Covid epidemic. I'm just going to read the report, with the permission of the president. I see I have nine minutes left. ▪ Social security has long been a topic for discussion at the National Council and some suggestions for the development of Norwegian cooperation in this area have been proposed. In the autumn of 2018, the National Council decided to give an even greater attention to this area by appointing a team of workers to shape common community security policies. In that group, Oddný G. Harðardóttir had a seat. The work force concluded that the course of the summer of 2019, and that the final edition was adopted at the Council of Northern Congress in Stockholm in the fall. Among other things, the policy encourages increased cooperation with health professionals in the North countries, pointing to world epidemics as one of the threats to the North countries. - It was like before the Covid epidemic broke out. In particular, it is stated that measures in the North are needed to ensure the availability of important medicinal products and medical equipment. The policy also provides suggestions to promote national cooperation in peace, Internet security and law enforcement, food and energy distribution, public security and rescue forces, and chemical, biological, nuclear and nuclear defenses. In January 2020, the prime committee of the Northern Council agreed to send policy to the governments of the countries. At the same time, a detailed comment was made on whether or not the governments and the Norwegian Ministers agree to the proposal and was asked for detailed support in cases where it was decided not to do so. In April when the North countries, like the rest of the world, were dealing with the Covid-19 epidemic, the Norwegian Presidency Council decided to comply with the proposal to send a letter to the Presidency Council of Northern America. The Northern Council repeated in the letter the importance of the proposed community security strategy as well as new suggestions and tips. The countries were encouraged to help one another on demand, such as medical equipment and health care professionals, in accordance with the Norwegian agreements and the previous declaration of the material and to see if the results of future epidemics could be harmonized, so that measures did not lead to new administrative barriers between them. It was also requested that the governments coordinate activities aimed at rebuilding and strengthening the economy following the epidemic and that the action would emphasise green and sustainable development, taking into account vulnerable community groups. Finally, governments were encouraged to promote international cooperation and to increase Norwegian coordination in institutions such as World Health Organization (WHO) and in the European Union. The responses of the Northern governments were received in June. At their 19th August meeting, the Presidency Committee of the Northern Council decided to hide a group of members of the Committee that had developed the policy to cover the answers. At the same time, it was decided to call the Ministers to agree on them. The service group gave credit for a meeting of the Presidency Committee on September 18, and agreed to lay the basis for the meetings with the Governing Body. The staff felt that governments had responded sufficiently to some questions, but in other cases the answers had been blurred or logical because they did not agree with the Council of the Northland. The Council of Counsellors was conducted by telecommunications of days 27 and 28 of October. Presidency, co-work, foreign and defense advisers and executives were found. Almost all the ministers of these seminaries approached the Council of the Council of the North and discussed answers to questions that fell under their field of activity. The meeting was closed, however, across all of which there was a clear and clear difference between the Ministers' assessments and the Council of the Northern Community in cooperation with the Covid-19 pandemic and the need for change and development of community security. Senators of the Northern Council felt that the countries did not have sufficient consultations for the pandemic and that the closing of borders and other measures would have had negative consequences for cooperation and for the northern population, especially those in the border areas and others who have to cross countries for various reasons. Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunrsdótttir insisted that the authorities had failed the inhabitants of the lands, and others agreeed with it. Congress officials criticized the Ministers for not showing sufficient ambition in this field and pointed out that significant improvement was needed in many areas of community security. Several ministers, in turn, said that after the epidemic broke down and that the cooperation was going well. Some of these pointed to a common campaign for transporting North American citizens from other countries at the start of the epidemic as an example of successful cooperation. It may well be said. The northern countries were doing a great job when the Norwegian citizen was to be moved to his home. Nevertheless, a conclusion can be drawn from what has happened last year as a result of the epidemic that the Northern Union is not tight enough. Of course, we've gone deeper into this in the Northern Council of Iceland. As many have noted, and we know, there are also natural and different environments in the North countries, the role of the institutions varies from country to country, also the background and authority of the institutions, the legislation on which they operate, and the like. Thus, there is no necessarily great vigour, and the project is saved down here and there. To respond to the rapid and reliable response of the northern countries, more than one canal may be missing from each state. Today, many canoes often have to contend with them in order to deal with what is happening. It is a challenge, but it is a project that people need to be aware of. We need to consider and find ways to simplify our response to threats, such as passengers. Of course, this is also true of natural disasters and wars and of all sorts of things that threaten people of the north. I've been over here a little bit, and I've been picking on a big deal about international cooperation. There's a lot more in here, naturally. It may be fun to share it - or it may not be nice to share it, but the Council of Northern Congress, held in October of Iceland, was canceled for the first time in the history of the Council of the Northland. What may be fun, though, is that we did not have a formal assembly, but we held many meetings, including many. with the chief executive of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, where we discussed, including the United Nations. climate, the Covid epidemic, the vaccines, our responsibility here in the North, and much more. It was an enormously good meeting. All the prime minister of the northern countries participated in that meeting. One advantage of this telecommunication is that good attendance from counsellors is much easier. We have sometimes complained in the Northern Council that ministers have not taken time to travel and attend meetings, that they have set their priorities differently. By maintaining telecommunications, you may be more likely to take the time to meet with the Northern Council. I'd say that all of this went very well with us in October. It was a good attendance and a good discussion, and we stressed community security, as mentioned earlier. But finally, the highest. President, the prize of the North Council of Nature was given according to tradition. We thought it would be boring not to be able to perform a magnificent ceremony in the Harpa, just as we had planned, but in a very good time, RUV was on TV. I think we've come to the attention of Norwegian cultures, Norwegian artists, people in innovation, and others by doing this. [[The president calls.]] For this, the game may be designed to focus on our marvelous creative people, who will lead us to the future in the release of many projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u72	Madam President. Like what? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Council of Iceland, covered well in 2020 a very special year and for all of us. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, president of the Council of the North, and I as vice president, planned a large part in 2020. We even intended to. to go around the country talking about the importance of Norwegian cooperation, visiting the Norwegian budget, using the year and using the Presidential Times to cultivate interest and create greater interest in the population of the Norwegian people. But, of course, North American cooperation is everywhere. It's through a group, through rurals, institutions, companies and sports companies. It is of utmost importance to an Icelandic society, and it is vital that we cherish and cultivate it. Of course, we will continue to do so, even though it was a strange year in that case. But like a dog. paritaprevir Yet, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, we held very many meetings and were able to keep the work together quite well alive despite the unique circumstances. In some cases, we had more meetings, and it was even better to attend because these were telecommunications and people did not have to travel long distances. What I wanted to talk to you about is mostly our work in community security. I was a member of the team of officers. There was a five - member team, one of each category of Council of Northern America, working on a community security report. We had talked about it a bit, had brought in to us the heads of the states to review the situation, and we saw that something was missing, and we wanted to make a clear message in the Northern Council on these matters. That was in 2019 C.E. We wanted to consider the threats that countries could face that are not war - threatening. We talked about natural disasters, forest fires, floods, extreme weather, pandemics, even though we didn't think we would have to deal with it in a few months, transportation accidents, nuclear accidents, terrorism, computer attacks, pollution of water, oil spills in water, and problems with fuel, electricity, and food. These are all big, important issues. What we saw in our minds and conversations with the heads of the institutions of all the Norwegian countries, both public and other institutions, e.g. For example, those who especially watch Internet security and police work were that the organization and its authority were blurred. We would like to convey a clear message to the governments about the need for this adjustment. This was clear, and it is still clear that political leadership is lacking and that there is a lack of authority to take action in times of trial. There are administrative barriers between countries that make society safe and that make it harder to cooperate. A greater understanding of the standards and practices needs to be made. There are different standards and definitions of public protection and what are being heard by the police, what is behind the military, etc. Such an understanding and how to work together in spite of differing standards need to be sharpened. You need to spot the necks of a bottle when you work together and find ways to prevent them. Then there is a need to root out doubts about roles and responsibilities. One of the messages we sent to the government was that the North African Council wants the states to evaluate the best use of the Norwegian Ministers in cooperation with the Norwegian Foreign and Security Policy, including the Norwegian Community Security and the public security partners to support it. So we had only recently sent this clear message to the Norwegian Minister when we had to cope with a pandemic. That is exactly what the failures we would have had to be prepared for, and we now see that we must learn from to continue. But like what? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir told me earlier there were things that went well. Still, there are major factors that we need to consider better and learn from this pandemic. I think all the Norwegian countries are ready to do that. Of course, that need to be stressed in each country. Madam President. I'd also like to talk only about communication between the Council of the North and the Norwegian Ministers Committee. We've been discussing it a while, e.g. to the Presidency Committee. The North countries, in accordance with the Council of the Norwegian Ministers, want to be the world's most integrated region. They had just published it when we were hit by Covid. We need to examine more closely what it means to be the world's most integrated territory. What makes the northern countries attractive? I think it's a big job to work on that, and there's administrative barriers that are important, to take them down. In all the surveys that have been conducted in the Norwegian countries where people are asked how important they feel to the Norwegian community, it turns out that there are just about all the people in the North countries who want to increase norological cooperation. There's a very clear and important message to the Norwegian Minister and Council of the North. However, when it comes to money, to put money in this cooperation that the inhabitants feel is so important, there is something else. For a very many years the same centenarian has been given from each country, which basically means that the budget has been joined and dragged together from year to year if prices are not contained in the equation, even if that is not the case. As a result, when new projects are introduced, they need to be cut off in the existing ones. That's what happened right now. We had a long, strict negotiation, me and you. paritaprevir Silja Dög Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, co-worker of the Norwegian Minister on the budget now because plans for green projects, missions to counteract the climate threat - which are important and all agreed to go to - but to finance them in their culture, education, and cultural work. We wanted to protest because the grass roots are the most active, cultural and academic issues. We did some results there, I'll let me say, but, of course, it needs to be done better. I think the message to the Norwegian Minister must first be that it needs to take into account the approval of the Council of England and, of course, the government must adopt it in each country and enforce what the Northern Council agrees. It is also necessary to watch the population's desire to expand and to look after the Norwegian cooperation, which requires money. Making new assignments takes money, but they will bring us back in many ways. It's not instant growth, but it's a healing that brings us on in a better society and what healing could now be better than that, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u73	Madam President. I'm going to start my case with a what? Harðardóttir The important thing is that we put enough money into the cooperation we have here. I think it's extremely important. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to commend the leadership of Iceland, boy. The council members of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Oddný Harðardóttir I've often thought of them -- we all know what it's like to be on our telecommunications, where your mind looks in different directions, and you see that it's that way with many people - and how they've been holding on to all our good work because it's been pretty good and not just under the circumstances, it's been pretty good. Period. Under the circumstances, it has been truly good. I wanted to make it especially clear that I think they've done quite well and have promoted our views that have appeared in the National Council of Iceland and reflected that my perspective has been quite clear. Generalis. Unfortunately, we were not allowed to enjoy the more fun it is always to hold a large assembly and meetings and meet together and have a little bit more - I was going to say brivar, I don't know if a president will reprove me for it, I'm asking them to apologize - more about meetings. But we had other experiences last year. Hv. The members of the council mentioned before have both brought in that the epidemic has certainly taken something from us but also brought us something. I say for my part that being able to participate in telecommunications opened up a possibility that I don't think had been opened to us otherwise. I'm sitting, for example. On behalf of the Council of the North, for the Council of Parliamentary Conference of the Baltic Sea, BSPC of the international abbreviation. There I am in a working group on climate issues that I would be involved in if I needed to attend a work meeting, as has been, here and there. We're going to have a telecommunication. Since the whole job has been covered well, I just wanted to fit into the two factors that I know best, or maybe three. I want to start with the most important. I agree with what has been presented here that the most important factor is the removal of administrative barriers. The work that takes place within the Council of Northern America to eliminate administrative restrictions is in accordance with the local people's will, that's what we all want. We want to be able to travel and move and live anywhere in the North, bring all our rights with us, and at the same time fulfill the duties of each country. That is why the work that is being done in the Northern Council is extremely important. I'm also a member of the National Council of Sustainable Development Committee where you've clearly seen how international projects we're facing on climate and environment are; that we're all dealing with the same things. It is of utmost importance that we have this field of working together to make either a suggestion or to have a place with members of different groups from different countries on these matters, to get together, or even not, as has happened, to see what work is being done, where we can apply ourselves here. The same is true of the third thing I was going to establish, the Council of the Baltic Council, mentioned earlier. There is a peaceful civil scene, one of the few where the Russians, for example, sit. with other Western nations and with these and other agreements. It's certainly bound to the Baltic Sea, as the name shows, but we have a representative through the North Sea Council, and especially through our great link to the Baltics. I think all international cooperation always gives us amazing things, and I want to end up with what I started to say about the importance that we are not afraid of putting money into this partnership because it comes back a lot, I agree. All international cooperation brings us much, but cooperation with our closest neighbors, who take place through the Council of the North, I'm not talking about the Western Council, is the cooperation that I think we as a nation should most highly value. That's cooperation with our closest neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u74	The president does not comment on the language, for the word briving is found in the opinion of the Aarhus, and this has been linked to elegance. Nothing wrong with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u75	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking you. Senators here have spoken, and Iceland's Department for the report, and particularly the head of Iceland's Department, well. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, for the speech. I am now a senator who has no place in the National Council of Iceland, so I might also want to ask questions or concerns and concerns. Of course, members of the Parliament decide for themselves whether they will respond. But first, I'm going to say that it's a pleasure to hear about the fact that despite Covid, so much cooperation has been achieved. I suppose we have learned a lot about this disaster, including that. the one with the telecommunications tool and what you can do with it, although it will never take the place of meeting people and discussing things. But you can see that there can be a good addition to that work. I thought that the award on RUSB was a very interesting and cool event and that it was a good example for me to deal with it. I was also going to say that what I thought had been a Council of the Northern Council at the beginning of the council, but it was this special meeting that was open to others, that was very interesting and enjoyable. I remember that there was one question that asked the prime minister of cooperation regarding vaccination cards or diplomas for those with antibodies. I was kind of shocked, or I wasn't quite satisfied with the answers of the Norwegian Prime Minister except the Icelandic, which I thought was a communication figure and that it was important. But I found it boring to hear what others did to reduce the importance of working together in this epidemic and at any distance support in the region. What I might have wanted to ask about or drop in here is Björn Bjarnason's report, which he wrote to the minister of foreign affairs and I know has been introduced to the Northern Foreign Council. I'd like to know if there's anything about it and if there's anything going on among the senators on one of the proposals there, that the North countries agree on a particular policy for dealing with the Chinese into the north. The Chinese have taken a keen interest in northern affairs and, like all kingdoms, have reason to worry and take an interest in what is happening there. But this has also caused some smaller countries to be troubled, and some worry that it is becoming a bit of a superpower struggle. So I think it's a very good suggestion that the North countries discuss this, that there's a small analysis of where the interests of this area lie when these matters come. At any rate, I will exhort, if it hasn't already begun, that these things may be discussed. Although they may be taken up some formal approach by the Northern Foreign Legislators, I also feel that it is important that we speak these matters. Hv. Of course, we have only been introduced by members of Congress to the Internet security issues that are a huge matter for us, and these complex threats, as they call them. I don't know if many out there understand this wording, multi-item threats, but Internet security is involved. We are no longer talking about security just because of some tank or country or anything, but it's getting much more complicated and often we're talking about security from natural disasters and Internet security and other things. It has been thought that the northern community is a very good place for them to deal with these big issues that we know that we cannot work in all international cooperation. It's just that these countries are also working on something, but you've often imagined that the Northern Union would be good if you looked at security. I don't think I've got it any further, I see I've been able to raise an answer, and hopefully some answers or conversations about these points of mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u76	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for her speech and the questions she raised to us in the Northern Council of Iceland. First about the vaccination cards. This is exactly what we've discussed, and in my opinion, I felt that I was directly inclined to publish a Norwegian vaccination certificate that would be mutual recognition. It is true that at the meeting mentioned by the senator, nothing was taken particularly well. On Mitengrogen, i.e. in the middle category of the Council of Northern America, I wonder if it's two weeks from now, time goes so fast on this matter, and we're waiting to answer. It will be interesting to see what the next step will be, but we intend to follow up on this matter with the stewards. Bjarnason's son's report is very good, especially because it's so clear, easy to read and good. She will be introduced, and there will be a meeting on that report on the following Monday in a formal manner. Yes, time will pass and time will pass. I haven't even reached China and the Internet security. In short, the Internet security issues have been under way, and it is true that mutual trust exists between the Northern countries, and we have also cooperated with the Baltic Nations in that area. It may be more important to mention the multivariate site in Helsinki that we have funded and are going to become members of, which was now in the last budget. Thus, we Icelanders may be getting into the multi-item partnership, including Internet security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very grateful to have responded. I'm saying for my part about the situation that came up in Covid that you had a little disappointment with the uncooperativeness of the northern countries and you may have been expecting more, because we talk so beautifully about each other and we're so strong together and all of that, so you got a certain disappointment with a closed border and a little wanting to be. But I hope it gets better. I agree with what. Senator. It is very important that we have entered this Internet security facility in Estonia. I think that's important. I think we need to talk about some more online security issues. We recently saw reports that Danir has been giving in to or has allowed the United States to receive data from that cable. Of course, it does matter how we deal with these matters, and you would have imagined that the North countries have much in common. While we are, of course, small countries, and the North countries are all in international comparison, this should at least be a good way to share information and knowledge with us. In terms of the Internet security problem, I have often said here that although we have taken many good steps in the past, all of us have to be aware that we have very far to go and that we have to run. It's definitely a marathon, but we need to get going pretty fast.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u78	V.E.G. President. Yes, the fact that we deal with the Internet security issues is urgent. There's been a lot of discussion about that in the Northern Council and also between the Foreign Secretary of State in the north, as far as I can get next. Then we also come for the Chinese in the north and other foreign lands. There may be a limit to the extent to which members of the Northern Union can influence foreign policy of other countries and their communications between them. These are often classified information, and although there are trust and good cooperation, there are limits that may limit information flows in some cases. Yet, it can be said that the Ministers of the North countries are not only in regular formal relations but also informally. In the case of the Chinese, the Northern Council may not have had that issue high - risk despite its use. We don't have a specific policy yet. But there was a report in the Swedish Parliament as far as I know, probably 2019, regarding China. I haven't seen that report, and we haven't formally adopted it in the Northern Council. But this is a subject that we will continue to examine and monitor closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u79	A respectable president. Thanks again. A senator and reiterate that I believe that it is important that members of the North countries discuss this matter. Of course, I'm getting a little closer from the northern states, and the Northern States are all participants in that work and are in the Council of the North Pole. As a result, sitting at the table with the great powers, the United States, and Russia, and so Canada, it is only natural that this group, at least to my liking, is a little higher when we and the members of these countries talk to each other. There is also China's attendance, but there are, of course, many other international issues that are involved, and perhaps we will discuss them in other international reports. I was calling only for how the discussion has been held among the Council of Northernity Council on Northern Affairs, and thanking for these answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u80	President. I love that way. The senator's bringing answers to questions in response to his own talk, that I decided to respond and participate. I wholeheartedly agree that the affairs of the north need to be discussed very much. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir arranged that if not discussed but if not discussed, the entire North Country Council would be located at the scene. I know that this has been discussed by special committees, and I believe that the prime committee has discussed it. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir came into a meeting that will be on Monday, where this will be discussed. This has been discussed in unique groups, and of course there are very different priorities in the Northern countries. Network security has been discussed here. In the year that we live here, we have been discussing even the years in which we live. for the espionage of the United States in Denmark. It involves the issues we have discussed within our ranks and the northern routes, and the appeal, we must remember that during that period the president of the United States was offering to buy Greenland. So did the discussion. So I would never lure her into the fact that she was only about Chinese greed, but about northern paths and greed, like a dog. In fact, a senator only came in, the superpowers there. There we have some, e.g. In a group of green people, spoken of as being a low-voltage region, even a lack of military exploits, and spoken for nuclear-free northerns, for example, nuclear accidents in that area. Iceland is completely uninhabitable and probably just all the North countries. Unfortunately, we have not been able to get all groups to do this. But I'm happy for this, and I'd count, for example. that the Arctic Council should come together to have low - tension regions and no nuclear weapons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for answering me. This novel route may be because I could not respond to it. Councilmen who held their speeches. But I'm happy about it, and I agree that it's very important to discuss the affairs of the northern countries in general. Now I have had a chance to attend one of the Councils of the Northern States, and I realize that at such huge events, such events may not be a profound discussion of such things. But I think it's very important, whether in the ranks or in the subgroups. Of course, there's a lot to take into account, and I think all the North countries are involved in their north-south policy to want north-lands to be low-volved areas. The question, however, is whether they are, and whether we can be the dominant party in doing so. We can certainly contribute much to the discussion of this subject, and I think that the wish of most people, if not all, is that it's a low-voltage area. Thank you. A senator for what he entered, referring only to what has been discussed in the group. We can also reflect on natural resources, the use of natural resources. What kind of natural resources are natural resources? What kind of natural resources is not normal? Of course, what's the future of the ocean area, many of us in the North countries, we're all living on, at least in Iceland? These are questions and discussions that are definitely in all the North countries, especially with us in Iceland. There are great interests and I don't get tired of saying we're a northern state and we're supposed to talk about ourselves like that, and we're supposed to emphasize it in all of our foreign politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u82	President. I hear great and good harmony between me and what. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. Hv. A senator said that we agreed that the Arctic should be a low - tension area, but the question is, Can we do something to help do so? There are words first. If the North countries, all the countries in the region, meet to declare that the Arctic is a low-voltage area, an area where there will be no military activity or fortress, and that these areas will be protected from nuclear control and treatment, that is a very strong voice. If we don't, it's a message to someone who wants something of this, that people in this area don't necessarily take their policy. So each of us who have a voice in this is responsible to speak for this course, whether it is here at the Senate Hall or within the international community we are involved in. If we don't let us know that we want low-voltage regions, that we want to look north in front of climates, for example, why would anyone really want to take that into account? On the other hand, if we agree on this at the General Assembly, in international cooperation, we have set an important example. Unfortunately, this agreement has not been established between all category groups of the Northern Council of England when it has already arrived, for example. proposals for a nuclear peace description. I have helped offer such suggestions, and we are in the preparation of a proposal that looks at the northerns primarily out of the climate. That's what we're supposed to do, talk to climate and environment because the north-ways are the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u83	A respectable president. I could have fallen away from the counter, but these were so interesting points. A senator came in. I agree with this, and it's Iceland's Arctic policy that north-lands are low-voltage regions. In fact, we are working to reevaluate that policy, and this is one of the questions we need to answer. I think that everyone can explain to you that they want the area to be a low-voltage area. The question, however, is, What is a real estimate of it? Then we also have to connect ourselves to reality, what's going on. It is not just the northern countries that have done it, we have seen a great structure of military workers at the Russians in the north. Some feel that this is normal because they are defending their borders and are suddenly looking forward to new realities, but they are looking forward to a new reality because of climate change. Thus, much of the Arctic business is involved in climate change. And that's the big thing, and it's in my mind how you can live in the northern parts of the world today and in the environment you see for the future. At the same time that we should try to reduce emissions and reduce negative effects, they will be there and they will be there, and we need to find ways to reduce them. However, it may be a talk that has a better place under some other consideration. Thank you. A senator for coming with me for this conversation, and how quickly. Council members of the Northern Council to promote this debate within the Council of the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u84	Mr. President. I will here explain the activities of the Western Council for 2020, and develop on a large scale. Many people do not have to say that by 2020 there is a special place in history, and this has affected the work at the General and the connection between members of Congress and the international body. This year we have been looking for variations in these topics, but we have certainly not been out of contact. Despite these circumstances, a good work has been maintained. The Western Council is a field of cooperation, as we know, members of Congress from Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroes. In the traditional year, the members of the council meet twice every year, on the one hand, at a theme conference in winter and on the other at annual meeting in the autumn. This time and, in line with the above, the main challenge took place at the telecommunications of a pandemic crown. The Western Council's Iceland Department was actively involved in the work during the year, and it worked on the Western business at the General Assembly. In June, the Allied Council adopted two Parliamentions based on the resolutions of the 1995 Summit of the Western Council in 2019 C.E. They covered the subsidies of airports for young people between the Western countries and the formation of the Western environmental prizes of the ocean. Both of these suggestions are expected to produce some results, but we will yet see them. The environmental rewards of the ocean are interesting. The chairman of Iceland's Department served the president of the Westnoric Council until the November annual meeting of the Council and participated in meetings at the Arctic Council and the Council Committee on the Arctic. The Western languages were the subject of a theme conference of the year held in the Farast Islands in January. The challenges faced to protect and protect the languages of today's digital revolution and globalization were considered. The meeting showed great interest in the conferences on this subject, and representatives of these countries recognize the pressures on the languages and that these countries may all be involved in maintaining and protecting the languages. These agents retraced the importance of Norwegian cooperation in this connection to meet these challenges, e.g. During the development of language technology and presentation in foreign literature With regard to the language technology, Iceland and I have proved something to be true, since we have gained knowledge and a technology that would be enjoyable and beneficial enough for Icelanders to communicate to their neighbors. Along with this theme conference, members of the Council discussed how to make the conclusions of the Council more specific and effective. The decree now lies in the conclusion of the Western Council that it will become a controversies made up of the councils in all three countries. Following this discussion, the case was taken up in the field of the Council's Office and the Presidency Committee, and at annual meetings an internal conclusion on the procedure was adopted. According to the conclusion, it is recommended that there be consultations between national departments and experts on the subject of a year's meeting. It is also recommended that conclusions be canceled after three years of approval. As to this, it is important that any conclusions that will lead to the entire Assembly are trudging that content, content, is important, and will be discussed in each country and followed. It was then discussed, and it was decided within the council that conclusions will be canceled after three years of approval. What does that mean? Yes, it is viewed as either having the contents of these conclusions taken into effect and serving their purpose or perhaps no longer applicable because of the changed circumstances. This is to conclude that day-to-day conclusions do not arise and receive repeated coverages of the councils and advisers that little change will occur between one year and the next in terms of counsellines. Mr. President. Worldly Koreans'epidemic was the cause of the resolution of the Western Council's prime committee in March, where governments of the three countries were encouraged to work together against the spread of the virus and to coordinate their actions. Since March of the month, all of the Western Council's operations were via telecommunications and were mostly employed by the staff of the council office. The Council also held telecommunications with partners; the Council of Arctic Council, the Council of Parliaments on Arctic and European Parliament. I took advantage of the opportunities at these meetings and along with Westnoristic advisers in the mountains, including the U.S.A. for the state of the function of specialized navigation systems in western waters. The European Union's correction system, EGOS, and the American WAS, which increase the accuracy of local information from what can be obtained through our traditional GPS system, would not be available in all Iceland or Greenland. Governments in the countries could solve the problem in cooperation with American and European bodies. We in the Western Council strongly encouraged this to become a reality. I know that this has become a priority among the government in Iceland and in the expected cooperation with the Greenlands. The country's cooperation in this area is valuable and may be effective in improving safety in the air and in the seas, making transport more intensive. It would be useful in Iceland. It is a possibility to use slightly inferior conditions for landings within the country. I'd like to mention the Western Islands and the Ísafjörður in this regard, though all is limited. A respectable president. The cooperation of the Allied Council with the Western Council has been long and successful. By the end of April, a renewed agreement between these parties was confirmed by signing the President of the Generals and the Chairman of the Western Council. The agreement replaces a temporary agreement that actually ran out late in the last century, but it was thought to be in effect. The contract documentes the position of the Western Council's office against the General. The General Assembly arranges a job position for the office and takes place, including to bring in and pay bills on behalf of the Western Council's books and its payroll. The Parliament also obliges itself to preserve the evidence of the Council under the contract. The signing of the contract attests to the approval and determination of the council's president to continue to protect this important cooperation between the three nations, which includes the growth of importance only. The Western day of September 23 was celebrated with seminars in the Norwegian house that were shipped online. In addition, she was attracted by flags at the General Assembly Hall, as if by some time. The Children's and Youth Literature Prize for the Westnoric Council is given every other year and will be granted next year in 2022. Bergrún Íris Sævarsdóttir was awarded the Westnoric Council's children and teens award in 2020 for the book Langelst forever. The prize was given in the Faeroe Islands during a small ceremony where the nominees were associated with telecommunications. Then Vestnorics participated in planning on a series of electronic events under the name Icelandic Arctic Talks in the autumn of 2020, along with investigators and focal point centres. There I joined the chairman of the council in a seminar on young people in the north, but young people were the priorities of the Western Council during the year, young people, their future, their feelings, and their prospects in the north. The prime committee regularly met with telecommunication devices, as mentioned earlier, and it was discussed that further practicality in this meeting form could enable a prime committee in these three neighboring countries to have even greater cooperation in the future. Though we are neighbors, there is a number of times when we travel to these places. This may be one of the challenges we face in the near future, but it looks to a brighter rate with better means of transportation, e.g. ... Greenlandwith new airports. Of course, at our meetings in 2020, there was a firm point in reviewing the situation regarding the spread of the crown virus in the three countries and reviewing the cases at its highest. As a result of its isolation, the Western government made it easier for the Western government to prevent infections from entering the border than many other European countries and to have complete special status in this regard. The summer of the year, 2020, had become so good that among the council members, an optimistic expectation that a annual meeting in Iceland could be held in September, with a Western meeting, restored the worldwide work by careful means of our neighbors. It was a pleasant thought to look forward to it. However, after the growth of infection at the end of summer, it was decided to postpone the annual meeting until November and finally to hold it with telecommunications. That was the first time that this happened in the council history. Mr. President. The Western Council adopted three conclusions at its annual meeting in 2020. First of all, the cooperation between the Western Ministers of the North and the second of the increased cooperation between the Western Ministers, which handle issues of the north and the third of the support of the Western countries by the added Faeroe Islands and Greenland by the World Health Organization. A respectable president. I have now briefly studied the activities of the Western Council and in other respects referred to the overall annual report presented here at the council and is available on the Generals web. Finally, I just want to underline this: walk like the Western Council, cooperation between three countries, hiccups, and hiccups if it was not a good option to lean on excellent employees who perform their tasks with fine prowess and professionalism. I thank them from the bottom of my heart for my good cooperation. At this critical point, when it is well over the period of the ideal representatives in the Western Council, they experience an uncertain period of events, and many await new adventures, I wish that the Council would be successful in an important and growing world that is rapidly changing, especially in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the tour of the Western partnership and the Western Council. Hv. A senator comes into one of my great interests here at the council I've been talking about almost the first day here, and there's a satellite tour of EGOS and its importance for our region, for Iceland, and especially Greenland, I think, for the future if it succeeds to create a proper basis. It is a pleasure to hear that interest is clearly being awakened. We also find here at the council and in the European Commission that the matter is changing and has changed considerably in the four years. EGNOOS could have a major impact on the western parts of Iceland in flight, sailing, science and technology, and in so many other fields. We're between the EGOS system, the European system called Galileo and then the WASS, which is in America. I think it's a unique opportunity to actually improve all transport in Greenland in this process by using the satellite guidebook, whether it would be EGOS or WAS that would cross here. In Iceland, I would clearly like to see both systems take over the country. In the Faeroe Islands, there has been quite a change in flight through Voga Airport. The Faeroe Society was one of the first airlines in the world that started with this. Before, 90% of the action in the Vogugum was, but today is 99% new at the airport, and this has completely changed everything. Maybe I'd like to hear from what. A senator how we see the next steps within the Western Council in connection with EGNOOS and a satellite guide.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Friðbertsson, the Njáll of Trausti. He's a member of the council on these subjects. It is important for us to enter the beam or even the beam. It would be ideal if we could make use of both. I sense that there is a great interest in being involved in this cooperation. It's run by the EU and the European Space Agency, and it's kind of strange that we're out of business. But like a dog. A senator came into the room is the Faeroes to guess a good deal about it, but we're mostly out in the cold, not perhaps quite, but this is not guaranteed to us Icelanders and could change our circumstances. I'm not gonna talk about it like a dog. A senator also mentioned, this would be a revolution before Greenland, and this will involve our flight routes at Greenland. But the question is, Why have we not gone beyond this? This may be for financial reasons. But I don't think it's too overwhelming, since we know that the EU has been making a wide variety of agreements with Eastern countries, thebaltne countries, e.g., the relationship costs this system to a considerable extent to the fact that countries are working on national reforms regarding their infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u87	Mr. President. As I entered a previous answer, the situation in the Faeroe Islands has changed in recent years since EGOS, and the technology was being fully developed. Greenland is a huge country, 22 times the size of Iceland. It is being flown far and wide. Never will traditional old - fashioned farming equipment, such as those known in recent decades, be put on a wide scale around Greenland, but a satellite tour could inexpensively create an entirely different basis, whether for flying on a new international airport that is being built or other airports, a smaller airport on Greenland. Then there is search, search, helicopter, and so forth. I think that in Greenland there is a very special situation, and this would make a remarkable improvement in the amount of transportation and security there. EGOS will reach the eastern part of the country, from the Grinch to the east, and can be used in a particular approach. This means that flights as lower as possible can be achieved, actually in worse weather, and worse psychics and cloud height. The evidence of this has begun to appear on the eastern side of the country. In certain locations, such as Húsavík and Akureyri, there is a descent that has to do with the Cape and other locations in the eastern part of the country. We were discussing green flights yesterday and its importance. A better flight guide with EGNOOS further contributes to the possibility of new green flights far and wide in a far different way in the future than we know today. Personally, the person here is extremely excited that we will be able to make progress in this. Member States that the European Space Agency offers tremendous potential, not only in the flight but also in the seas and sciences, and there's a great demand in Iceland after getting in and we'd probably get the money back through research grants and other sources, mostly if not altogether, in the same way as the Norwegians do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I'm afraid I'd like to ask him more questions than I can answer here. We can perceive from our discussions by the Western Council whether it applies to the Minister of the Western states or to the European Parliament or to their European Union, the fact that there is an interest in tearing this up and trying to arrange this. This, of course, has some money, but the question is, Is it necessary for us to become members of the European Space Agency, that is considered, and not necessarily necessary? Member States would gain reliable knowledge of the land and science and research work. We are living in an ongoing new era, where there may be an abundance of resources within the camp. We believe setting up this equipment will be an advantage for flying between Iceland and Greenland. Often, there are complaints about high prices in flight. That's even. means the flight is unstable. Airplanes are small and sometimes have to be turned away, and flights need to be delayed, and they all cost money, and it pays no one but the passengers themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson for reviewing our report in the Western Institute of Iceland. I'm also going to use this opportunity to thank the Bylgja of the Year's Árnadóttir for writing this fine report for us. I have been in the Western Council, and I have been there since I sat here at the 2016 Parliament. It's like a whisk. A senator entered a special year because of Covid. I have to admit that it is always challenging to participate in the Western Council because they all go to Danish, and therefore we senators have had to attend Danish hours and prepare well and take full note of what our friends are saying, and I don't talk about it when it comes to expressing themselves. In fact, the one living here sometimes allows himself to do so in English when the Danish skills go nowhere. It was extremely difficult to sit alone at a Danish annual meeting, perhaps resulting in a much shorter meeting. I'm here to see that the Presidency Committee has regularly met with telecommunications and the Presidency Committee at the seat right now. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson and the presidents of the other divisions. Because I was director of 2016-2017, and had to attend a number of such meetings, I just think there might be one of the possibilities to have even more and more cooperation, i.e. using telecommunication technology for this purpose. This would never take the place of meeting and speaking, but when it comes to certain matters, when people are known before and like them, I would think telecommunications should be useful, and especially should they make good use of these little nations, since it is both expensive and often difficult to travel between the Western countries and perhaps from Greenland. A respectable president. I hope we can further activate the work in the Western Council by holding telecommunications in a number of annual meetings and our theme conferences. I see an opportunity for what we can use better in the next few years. It has been this way over the years that this may not have been the case with the most important international work of the people involved in international affairs. I think that's a very misunderstanding. I think it's really important that we work together with our neighbors. We have so much in common, and we can learn so much from one another. I may be stressing that we can learn much from one another. Not that we Icelanders think we're so big and great - because we've become independent from Dana and our other friends are heading for it - and they're the only ones we can do something that we can certainly do, because we can learn a lot from the Faeroe and Greenlands as well. I want to give this particular attention during the discussion, because I don't know how long you have the opportunity to work here at the Parliament and to work in the Western Council, where there was an international deal here today, that it is very important to promote business relations. We went through it in the Western Council, the Icelanders and the movers, to work on a little more than one of our most advanced vacation contracts that is the Hoyvík deal between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. It looked like someone in it. I realized, a respectable president, in a conversation with the best of senators, that we would not have done enough talking about business between countries and the importance of these countries doing business. It was a very big misunderstanding, it was somehow possible to confuse numbers back and forth and forthwards, some of them who, did not really realize what they were getting out of business with the Icelanders through the Hoyvík deal. Fortunately, all of this has come to a slightly better start now, and I hope that in the future we will all agree that these countries are important to work together. Business is such a foundation for increasing cooperation between countries. Then I'm going to let myself go over to Greenland. We've just received our report. There was a special Greenlandic group, good people, a group that Össur Skarphéðinsson, former minister, led and wrote about opportunities in the relations between Icelanders and Greenland. We're discussing this on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the Western Council is getting a presentation on this. We also have a presentation on the report. This is a very good and remarkable report, and it is of great importance that we take advantage of these opportunities. I know that when you use that opportunity, some will be shocked, for there are, of course, mutual opportunities in this relationship, and it's important to remember it. It's interesting, when you start looking at this, I take Northland as an example, Akureyri, that the business model of many companies there is largely based on one or another's service to Greenland. It may be engineering services, air care, and a variety of services. There's a huge opportunity for both the countries and the Greenlanders to turn this on. We see a lot of difference over there, with this fine project Royal Greenland. They sail into the village crew and the communications between Eimship and Royal Greenland have opened up opportunities for shipping between ships. A big change has, e.g. become a food store in a Greenlandic food store. It used to be commercial products from Denmark, but it is now available to buy a lot of Icelandic goods. Icelandic vegetables, dairy products, and all kinds of products are being exported. Of course, it needs to be the other way too, and we need to find ways to do business with the Greenlands and allow the import of the goods they are selling. I'm not gonna keep this much further, I stress that there's opportunities, and I think there's a reason we're holding the Western Council. It's important. Similarly, in international cooperation, I also say that it needs to be specific. The council is being consulted for a more specific conclusion that it has a life span. It's all right, I agree with some things and I don't see eye to eye. It is as it should be that there are often different opinions. I may primarily want to emphasize the importance of these countries working together for the future, both in the field of employment, but also in our cultural life, in our shoes, and elsewhere, to look to our good neighbors, and to find ways to develop cooperation between us because they truly are there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u90	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a report by the Western Council, which is both important and effective. I think it's the least international unit in the world of this kind. The population counts about 400,000 people, something like that, but the area is huge, just Greenland is more than 20 times the size of Iceland, so it's the little mouse that can scream, you can say so. Sometimes people do not discuss such diverse national activities, as discussed here. All I can give you is a classic case of security and protection at the North Pole or the Council of Congress that I'm involved in. However, I would like to reflect on such things. So it's about resource search and resource development, which, of course, is a major factor in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, and for us too, and has been, but has something to do with the three nations in a slightly different way. The two not independent, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, view new resources as a key factor for independence. We who have gained independence do so in a certain way, but not in the same way, i.e. to them, to our neighbors, this is a form of independence. For us, this is more than just to ensure our position and have a good life. The resources I'm thinking about and focusing on are what we call self-sustaining, i.e. Use and protect, the balance that needs to be shared. So I'm talking on the other hand about conventional resources, e.g. A fish, which can then be used sustainablely because fishing and researching stock size and so forth, and a species of resource resources, which is what we can call learning, which is not sustainable because of its irreversible use of resources. I think mainly of the hope of fossil fuels, oil, gas, and such, both in the Faeroe Islands and in Greenland. We've canceled it here in Iceland, at least I look at it, but this understandable interest in education - now I'm not talking about metals, they're also there, especially in Greenland, and other valuable minerals, now I'm primarily talking about oil and gas - leads to a very special contradiction. It is based on the fact that there is enough known coal, oil, and gas supply in the world, but it has become the result of research by scientific and international institutions that only one third of them can be used if we are going to master human warming. The current industry, at the rate it is currently moving, is actually going far above that part, aims for more than one third to be used if we keep going like this. You'll think about it if we found these resources in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. Entries have studied them and have not yet produced efficient resources. Greenlanders are less developed, but there are hopes for such things. Then let's go around the North. We can think of the Barents, where the Russians and the Norwegians are full. If we are now getting started on a global level, it will increase our global carbonase emissions, whether we like it or not, and therefore on the problems of all countries, because the content of carbon dioxide, as we call the main element CO 2, which we breathe out of us, is now well over 400 parts of a million, 0.04, and is growing somewhat faster yet, so that we are actually increasing emissions by this specific process, and it would speed the rise in the sea level that is now three to four millimeters per year. If you boil it together in a short sentence, it's simply a matter of increasing energy production from the earth, oil and gas, in the north, can cost us all dearly. Now I'm not going to go to the Greenlands and the Faeroes especially because it's fact - and at least In the time of the Trump administration, it was to enter substantial production of oil and gas in Alaska - so to speak, there are new fountains in a vast museum already, and increasing oil and gas production in the north can cost us all very much. It's the contradiction I'm trying to explain, so the question is: Is this a topic in the Western Council? I suspect the answer is no, same as I was explaining how security and defense matters are not discussed within the Union of the eight member states and other members of the North Pole. If employment is not discussed in the council, would it be advisable to change it? Suppose Icelanders film it because we are interested and concerned about the rise in sea level here. Or is it even in a movie? I have no idea. So I'm gonna pray. paritaprevir Brjánsson to answer me in answer, I'm going to ask for an answer, and I would like to explain to Mr. President that I attended this speech just to have a longer speech lesson than a traditional answer. I hope so. paritaprevir Brjánsson, answer me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A public speaker to Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for his inn. He knows the northern part of the entire region, has traveled very extensively in this region, including About Greenland, and he knows a lot about it. We know from our recent experience the changes and metabolic changes in Greenland and how they continue to shape society to meet the demands of time. But they are cautious. So now they trust the Icelanders, there's a special trust in each other. Iceland is involved in business dealings with the Greenlandites, large projects on both construction projects and the airport projects. You can sense that they would like Icelanders to join them as business partners, not just as contractors, that we can handle this with them and take some chances with them. We just got here, like what? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned, a large and remarkable report on Greenland, and our relationship with Greenland, where it is recommended that we maintain our whole relationship. We've started taking steps in that direction, including ... withexperiences. I'll let me ask you what. paritaprevir A young man Ari Trausti, who did not appreciate it as a reasonable option. Where do we lie there to meet this remarkable nation on the basis of equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u92	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Brjánsson's Godnas agree on what to do when it comes to promoting communication between Iceland and Greenland or Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, for of course it is exactly as he says; we have experience in sharing and they have experience in sharing, we can learn from them, and they can learn from us, these two neighboring nations. Of course, we should do all we can to improve and improve that communication, and so the Westernological Council, the Northern Union, and the Parliamentary Conference will be presented in a report of all the important factors. But what I'm trying to figure out is: Shall we also discuss these difficult issues, defense and security issues in e.g. The Arctic Council and the contradictions I was trying to explain about natural activity, the possibility of working, and the use of chemicals that are at the same time actually damaging us, i.e. increasing the rate of warming in the north? Is it advisable to take it into the Western Council? That was my question. I'd just like to remind you, too, that Greenlanders are going to discuss... whether to take up uranium work in Kvanefjold, South Pacific. Is it something that we would literally discuss within the Western Council? Of course, we want to maintain a good spirit and avoid changing our affairs. But there are also major problems that need to be discussed in the blood. This is basically the question: Do we need to discuss uranium or oil processing within the Western Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u93	Hv. President. It may work, so I'm running away and I don't answer, I wasn't quite smart. However, the Western government is established in its own way in order to increase the link between these three nations, to keep the relationship. Traditionally, it is culture, literature, and social participation in various forms and cultures. It's complicated places and challenges, but I think we need to take a stand for her. Iceland is an independent and sovereign nation, but the other nations are not yet. And that's the line dance about, for example. Foreign policy. They have begun to guess for themselves on all major issues except perhaps their foreign policy and, in part, their security issues, the economic issues in part, because they are not entirely economic independence. The number of conveyors has gone considerably further than Greenlands. But I believe that there is a ruined opportunity within the Western Council in this regard, and we are expected to take a number of challenges as well. This is such an important partnership, this bond is so precious that I think we should do it, but hence the natural Western advice changes considerably. But I think this political decision has to be made. Aren't we supposed to be in the West to be a force in the north?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u94	Spoken words are a strange tradition, feeling why. President - the highest. President, I made a mistake. Hv. A senator addressed a president exactly as an honorable one, which, according to the book, is not to be done at all, and the president also made that mistake.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u95	Mr. President. I think we need to be very careful with the issues that are highly inconsistencies among these countries, and I own, for example, the case. ... totheunanimity of the mining industry in Kvanefjold, South-Granda, including the watch is over. There, the political elements of Greenland agree deeply, and even among the common people, the same split. If this is the case at the scene of the Western Council, such as other resource development or just changing fishing -- now we know that for the time, fishing in the North Sea is not meant to be done, perhaps waiting for research and other sources of light on what you can do. We may well have another resource problem there, i.e. that we will not agree on what to do in the North Sea when it comes to fishing. I named the Security and the Council of North Pole because it's a hot potato that's just kept. However, they say: We still need to discuss it. We just need to find another location, not try to rock the ship in the North Pole. We could say the same about the Western Council. Let's discuss this at the scene, maybe just two-sided, not rocking the boat, rocking the Western tradition, and taking in a case like this. However, in terms of climate, I still find it very important to discuss resource use in the north, no matter who.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u96	Mr. President. I'll start by thanking you for your excellent report and excellent discussion. I'm jumping in here very quickly because I had a very interesting discussion on the EGNOOS system and Iceland's status, as well as on Greenland. First of all, I wanted to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson for bringing it up and trying to keep it at the scene of the Western Council. It's important that we sort it out. But I wanted to promote it that, according to the information I have, which may be wrong, there is no real way we can directly participate in the EGOS operation differently than to become members of the European Astronomy Institute of Astronomy. There are many reasons, and of course it's a deal, but there's probably some way around it, but there's so much work to work in the European Space Institute. Congress resolutions have been adopted by the General Assembly with all paid votes that we should seek to be part of the European Space Agency. I don't understand why we're here, that I think four years after that proposal was agreed, and not even started that process. The conversations don't seem to be happening. To be honest, I don't know which department is stuck with today's ball. I think it's the Department of Employment, i.e. It's the biggest thing in the world. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. It's clear that there's movement to get on. I find it interesting to put it in context of the Western partnership because it's good to have the system extending over the whole of Iceland, but not just the eastest part of the country, as it does today and as good as extending it to Greenland. There are ways to get it. For example. This could be done by simply placing more satellites in orbits or changing their direction slightly, but it will never be done except in cooperation with European countries that are in the system. Maybe it's valuable for the Western team to focus on solving this because it's just important for all the flights going through, so that other uses for ELTOS are not spoken of and there are a lot of them, I'm not going to go on it here. But I thank you again for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u97	Mr. President. I present a report from Iceland's Parliamentary Conference on North Pole by 2020. The report contains a number of pages, and there is an extract from it called ◯Intruder, and I intend, by the permission of Mr. President, to read from it here so that a body of members can get a pretty good picture of what has happened in 2020. At the U.S. Senate Committee on North Pole, in 2020, the highest conversation of the pandemic of Covid-19 and the response of the Member States to the Presidential Programme of the Council of Arctic and the fight against climate change was launched. After Covid-19 began to spread into members of the Parliament Committee and its travel restrictions, the Committee decided that meetings should be conducted electronically until things improved. Then, in September 2020, Tromsö was suspended until April 2021, the proposed conference for Arctic convention. Committee members shared information on the effects of the pandemic and discussed the matter. Total collapse in tourism, which has had a serious impact on the northern economy. At that time, the epidemic has increased the possibility of senators involved in telecommunications and is a positive development that could be maintained after the epidemic had passed. Furthermore, members of the Commission agreed that the battle against a pandemic has brought to light the need for closer solidarity and international cooperation in the north. Iceland's lead plan in the North Pole was in focus, but Iceland took over the lead until two years of Finnum in May 2019. The plan shall be combined for sustainable development in the north, indicating that the main objective of the Council requires cross-border cooperation and is a reminder that the work of the Council has been focused on ensuring sustainable development in the region. Russia takes the lead in May 2021, but the Arctic Council celebrates 25th birthdays that year. The Commission, as usual, stressed the environment and looked particularly at the battle against climate change. Climate change is the largest threat in the north, and representatives of the Parliament's Committee discussed how to reduce their negative effects, including those of the Parliament. in Arctic communities and ocean temperature, but climate change is twice as fast in the region as in other parts of the world. The importance of the Paris convention was stressed, and the United States will be a part of the agreement again after Joe Biden was accepted as the new president of January 20, 2021. The representatives of the Iceland Department even laid down. stressing the equality issues of the North and the importance of the scientific community sharing information further between countries and united scientific research. Other issues that were on top of the Council Committee include Arctic seas, educational issues, and how to contribute to continued stability in the area. In addition, discussions were made about the policies of the Member States and the European Union on the affairs of the north. Then I like this reading. I'd like to report on the order of the Iceland Department. The head of Iceland for 2020 was Director Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, the Left Motive of Green, Deputy Director Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, of the Future, and Director Bea Leví Gunnarsson of Pranta's Congress. The villains were Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Smári Mccarthy. The secretary of Iceland was Arna Gerður Bang, as has been many in the past few years. Your information is a chairman of the National Parliament's Department for the Council of Iceland, who in his premeditate is serving as vice president of the Committee to conduct a meeting with the Committee. Every other year, the whole Icelandic department attends a panel of committees. It is held there every two years, as indicated. The Iceland Department will gather on demand and the chairman will explain the work of the Parliamentary Committee and its members will discuss the work as well as information on the work of the Arctic Council. Iceland Department, i.e. The three of us who are nobility held three meetings in 2020. The Senate Committee itself, i.e. The members of all eight nations and of the European Parliament also held three meetings in the year and participated in all of them in the head of the Iceland. Two of the three committee meetings were conducted as a pandemic telecommunications from the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same time, the chairman of the Norwegian extra meeting of the Stockholm Committee attended a block three and a half. March. For a more detailed description of this work, please refer to the annual report available both on the General and, of course, the Parliamentary publication. According to this, I'm not going to step down to the events behind this year's commission or the conference, I refer to the report. But I would like to report that the next meeting of the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee, i.e. the eight, should be in Washington on February 24, but, of course, will not be there. There will be another telethon. The conference with all the committees assembled, the one held every two years, was to be in Tromsö under mid - April but will also be a telecommunicationary and will be divided into two days. Such is the reality of the pandemic. In a sense, this has been useful in the discovery because it has sometimes been a problem to bring people together from Siberia and Greenland and from where all these different agents come. But it can be said that everyone looks forward to the time when they can get together again in real life. I would like to address some key elements in the Arctic work, to use part of the meeting period instead of reading out of the report, and less than the points that I think are relevant to the entire continuation of this important work. First only about the tension. We talk a lot about low tension, and there is a joint opinion of a member of the Parliamentary Committee, of all nations, and of the European Parliament, that this low level of tension needs to be maintained, the low level of tension that has been experienced. But there is something else. Russia was riding on the line of 2018, with a special ambassador for Russia, the Northern ambassador, discussing and criticizing the British Arctic policy and its military policies, so to speak, at a meeting in Murmansk. He broke a magazine by doing so. It was decided not to answer it in any way but to ignore it. It was so again, although it was not for the Council of Congress but for the Council of North Pole, that Pompeo, the minister of foreign affairs then passed the same route, and in fact, went much farther than this ambassador had ever done. So the speech has only changed and presented itself in this way. Those who are actors and dodoers in releaving new and new signs of a greater tension than the rest are Americans and NATO countries on the other hand and the Russians on the other hand. This is indicated by the construction of new centers in Russia, which, in fact, involve not only sailing but also actual military stations and some very large ones. Military exercises are on the side of these sides of the ocean north of Norway and into the Atlantic Ocean. NATO answers by increasing her practice in Norway, and there is also increasing cooperation between Sweden and Finland and NATO. This is what I call a ping-pong effect that makes men switch and even add up. This is a fact that humans have not wanted to compare to the Cold War in any way, and that is absolutely accurate. But still there's evidence that these two different blocks, the NATO countries, and then Russia, are pinching our muscles, let's just say it like that. In addition, China, of course, is involved, primarily in economic affairs, in particular, in increasing its exhibit in the area. There are many ways to weigh this. How serious is this, and who are ahead of whom? Which comes first, the chicken, or the egg? To me, and I've been tracking the north for a very long time, this is a slow, growing tension, although it is well along the way, to be like what we call the Cold War. So the tension grows and we have to face it. We do this by making discussions about these matters, not at the Arctic level, not at the scene of the Council of Congress, but at the scene that is even to be found. But talks need to be started and to find ways to keep the level of lowness in all the successful cooperation and to try to resolve these issues in another area. The source paradox I used earlier, the rising production of fossil fuels in the north, and, on the other hand, the rising rate of warming, if I can use that word. This is incompatible. There's no reunition for this in the countries, and there's no reunitation between the countries. Let's just take Norway. There are people in Norway who want Norway to stop doing this. Then there are people in Norway, especially in the management and dominant groups, who insist on increasing the involvement of the Norwegians in this process. The Canadians are there, and the Americans were on their way to a significant development. It will likely change with present government. The little states, especially Greenland, plan to go this way, etc. Like the tension, we need to maintain this resource demonstration. The climate is growing, but it does not shrink. More important, the pace is increasing, not decreasing. permafrost, glaciers, and other natural phenomena clearly illustrate this. Then there's the people. There are 4 million people, 10% are natives, and in much of the Arctic work people have not forgotten, but they have not had the same value or fairness compared to economic opportunities. Then there is the question of control and authority, and so on. If this has been done in an uninhabited region, in an indigenous country, or what it may be, then the need to communicate with the natives has been lacking and even generally seen with the general population of this area. We need to keep the people with us and put them closer to the foreground than we've been doing. Scientific cooperation is of utmost importance, but it has a degree of balance that involves a large group of Russian scientists, although only English - based, scientific research outside Russia and vice versa. Most of us don't understand Russian. At times, I have said that it would be a real benefit to come only from scientific research into more languages, therefore, French, English, Russian, Chinese, so that scientific cooperation becomes more real in this way, not self - research, but distribution of information and distribution of results. And I want to say in the middle of the race that we need more research before we can do this or that. Of course, there is a lot to do about it. But my opinion is that science has been on it for a long time, and the results have grown to the point that we have sufficient data to deal with both rapidly and effectively. So it is not an excuse to draw up because adequate scientific research has not been practiced and enough scientific research has not provided a single answer to this or to the other. Of course, it is always better to do so. At the latest, I'd like to mention the link between what I represent here, which is the Council of Congress, we're talking about the National Assembly in the eight countries and the European Parliament on the other hand, and then the Arctic Council itself, which is being carried out on the other hand. In turn, a closer relationship must be developed. As members of the Senate Committee, we offer opinions and they pass through governments to the Council of North Pole. But we have a feeling that they are not always viewed as positive, even if they are not always viewed in real life. What we've done here, and we're new, is that we got the Department of State in order to make a decision to 37 teams, which was from the last conference held in Inari 2018, and respond to all the events. This is the initiative taken by the European Parliament Committee to get the Ministry to do this. We're going to draw the results together and introduce them at the next meeting of the chairman of these committees and then hope that the Presidential Board of Parliament will bring it to the Council. There will be one way to see how this link exists between the Parliament and the legislator and the Commission. That bond must be strengthened by all means. Back to the North Pole. As Iceland has said in its prehuman history, it needs to be strengthened itself, and I also believe it would be a great help to further the relationship between the councils and members of these different countries. There is very little connection between Icelandic and Russian senators over the conference of Congress. That's where we ought to add. There has been relatively little connection between Icelandic and U.S. senators, so we would have to increase too. It's mainly in the field of northern countries where this link has been good. Canada, the United States and Russia, in all these places, we would need to draw closer, and I will not speak to members of the European Parliament, who are just beginning to form a group of friends for the first time in a long time. I'm going to make it work, but I'd like to answer some questions, in case of an emergency. The Senate has it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u98	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for review of the Icelandic Parliamentary Conference on North Pole by 2020. As a member of the international work, we may experience our telecommunications over a recent year in a certain way. It's hard to keep this huge meeting, such as at NATO, as a telecommunications, but the committee meetings that have been on telecommunications have only gone pretty well. It's one of those things that wants to ask you why. A senator's concern is that it is a difficult geographic area for us to discuss when talking about Arctics. These countries and residents are often geographically located that travel is difficult and far away. Then I just wanted to come into Iceland's policy on the Arctic Council together for sustainable development in the north. There we Icelanders had three areas of media stress; oceans, climates, and green energy solutions. What has been the discussion of the Council of Congress, as with the sea? Then I'm talking about acidification of the sea and other things. Has this discussion been a living and a great one? Then back to what may be my main interest, i.e. energy issues and renewable greener energy. The wind power in the North has long been spoken of as perhaps one of the main and most direct ways in which energy exchange can take place, but you do not hear much of the general debate. So I wanted it from an insider. Hv. A senator who has been very active in this work in the past few years would be interesting to hear where these matters are. What is the debate about energy change and renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I'll start with, for example, only these telecommunications. Of course, there have been problems with this Senate job because of weather, transportation, and so forth, so the telecommunications are good and will certainly become permanent in some respect. But the personal bond is also important and becomes easier when humans are together. And as strange as it is now, I think--or maybe it's not surprising - that part of keeping this area low is just pure and smart acquaintances, friendship between these people who meet so many times a year for so many years. It matters. So let's hope this is a mixture of both. With regard to the sea, we have concluded this several times. Part of the 30 and some of the conclusions from these conferences that have usually been going on every two years have turned to the sea. We are trying to boil this down now and reduce these conclusions, or points in each conclusion, because there have been many of them over 30. It's really too much. But as far as energy is concerned, I think the wind power is the big key, the hydropower in some way, and the soil in a very few places. Water energy is a problem in many parts of the winter, but the wind is abundant in the north. So I think small and medium-sized wind - power workers are the key to the northern energy issues. I can come back on it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u100	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. With the wind just right, the sizes and the like, we've seen that the Icelandic company has been working with small stations, perhaps 20 to 30-30 kW wind power stations. Where are they looking? What are we looking at in this issue of wind power? Is it also battery and stuff, all the technology that's coming? It's so difficult to get away from. It is really impossible to build a distribution system or the electrical transport system, as we know it, a powerful cohesion line. And then the communication. These communities may never develop in a positive way unless we solve the communications and energy issues. It'll always be the key to everything. These are the terms leading to the fourth industrial revolution for these areas. Either way, in Iceland or elsewhere, we always talk about access to electricity and communication when we talk about the fourth industrial revolution. Where do they stand in these areas? A senator talks with his colleagues in the North, the fundamental issues involved in communication and electronics? Is there something you're talking about tides, currents, or something like that? We rarely hear about this that I want to hear about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u101	Mr. President. It is absolutely accurate that energy issues are involved, however, that the communication is the basis for human life reaching a position that is very acceptable to those living there, to well - educated people to customs in the north and to work there, that the governance system works up, etc. To date this has been more or less successful in the use of oil, unless Russia has increasingly turned to liquid natural gas. For them, the most environmental solution is the one called LNG, a even more ecstatic neganal gas, in English, liquid natural gas. The release is about 20% of the emissions from normal gas or oil, so it must be said. But the wind power has just begun to rise. It is not just big windmills, or mills that are vertical, and that are much different from those traditional windmills. But it is clear that if you are successful, the gas needs to be relied on as far as it goes but also on the wind power and, above all, changing the satellite access through telecommunications, via computer use, by telephone, by guidance, and by other means. Based on what I know about the legislature of these meetings, I believe this is a little short but on the right route.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson a great deal for his speech. Of course, I thank you for this report, but just as much as for what he introduced in his talk, which I think is very important. It has to do with northern languages in general and what's happening in that area, and it certainly has been afforded for us to have a man so educated about these matters in this role. In this international teamwork, this small committee, the National Parliamentary Conference on Antarctica -- first of all, it's a real terrible name, I'll let myself say it -- there are three of them. Senators. Hv. paritaprevir As a result, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson takes the lead in meeting the committee regularly and participates in the work. If I understand that correctly, the other two members of the committee will attend the conference that is once every two years. I have suggested that we only revise our international work here at the council, and in fact, I think it is a good rule that the international work being carried out regularly is being carried out among the councils and where our emphasis should be at any given time. I have to say, I feel that in the international work here at the Icelandic National Assembly, I should place much more emphasis on the general northern agenda and I am not merely referring to this conference and SCPAR meeting, i.e. The board of directors, but in general only around the North, because it is in my mind one of our major international and foreign political issues. In this regard, we have an exceptionally successful event here, the Arctic Circle, the Northern Circle Table, I think it is Icelandic, annual conference here, where scientists, representatives of the professional world, representatives of various unfavourable international organisations interested in this matter, students, senators, and officials meet together. It is known that my great, remarkable, and extremely important event. Our former president Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson had a road and problem in starting that conference, and she puts Iceland on the map as a place where people who are interested in the Arctic will meet. As a result, Arctic Circle has kept smaller events around the world, not just in the north, but in cities in other places as well. I think Icelandic senators should be present at such conferences. This report may not be related here, but it is at home in the global and northern discussions, whether it would be reasonable to look to this panel, to expand it, and to give space to more conferences, more meetings, and more international work that are involved in the Arctic. This was illustrated in the speech of some. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson what is going on in general in the North, and an extremely interesting reading here in the report to read what the delegates have been talking about. And I agree with that as it is. One senator said: "The excitement is increasing. Then the problem, so to speak, is where to discuss growing tensions in the north? Is there a need for a different setting, or may these activities need to be changed? I don't mean to pretend to answer that question, but I think it's so important, and I thought it was a reason. A senator makes a good impression that we're dealing with the climate threat, and it's growing. But we're also talking about people living in the North, and I think it's important that we discuss the northerns in that context. That's why the headline of our prehumanity in the Northern Council is so fine, the same as for sustainability in the north, and I know that many of us, and I among us, are very happy because the words are the presidentships in the United States where you feared it much and felt very sorry, not to be less said, that the United States should be drawn out of the Paris Convention. I also find it interesting to read in the report that when Aaja a few Larsen, a Brazilian senator at the dance council, asked an American representative Lisu Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska, whether she thought the United States' interest in Greenland was reduced by a new president, Mukowski said Murkowski he was concerned about the small importance of the Obama government had placed on people in the north and merely looked to climate change, but she hoped that the Biden would expect people to live in the north. She said that she expected good relations with Greenland with a new government and a new consulate in Nuuk. As a result, the question arose. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson Murkowski also noted changes in American and Iceland's relations with presidents and did not consider any changes to be made. I find this interesting, because while climate is large in the North, I think our voice and other northern people are so important, that they are not spoken of as Arctic languages in the capitals of these great states, whether in Europe, the United States, Russia, or China, or where they are sometimes put in an actual context, as well as in prey and ice bears, to swim or to death. It is important to remember that there are real people and that our project is designed to allow people to stay in that area. I think that's our major project in all northern discussions. I also took note of the report that I found very interesting, that they had received president of the University of the North, Lars Kullerud. It says that some 10,000 scientific articles are written each year, mostly in English or Russian. Most of them are about nature science, but sociology is neglected, only about 1% of the world's research budget is being made up of articles in the north. Today, we are in many of our university systems, with a wide variety of studies in the North, but the University of Akureyri and the offices there have dealt specifically with sociology. I think we're very early in that field, and I might say that there's some particular cover there for us in the northern political research world, i.e. for these social studies, and in that I think there's a chance. I think there is also an opportunity in what I mentioned earlier on the Arctic Circle and in Iceland there would be a place where people would come together to discuss these matters. We often discuss the North, and there are changes, of course, and opportunities to travel may be opening up. But I think, a respectable president, our primary opportunities are to activate our intelligence and find ways in research and innovation and to bring together knowledge in the northern regions. It may be in the field of social science or natural science, and I think it's our big opportunity in the north, and I'd love to see us develop that opportunity. We also need to take a stand on various other issues of the north. But I think there's a chance, and it still encourages my opinion that I think it's important that we add more to our international cooperation here at the council, in the Senate work. I feel that we need more members of the council who participate in the work that is speaking Iceland's voice and taking in this vital knowledge, and they have the opportunity to participate in other events toward the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir My daughter Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for this thought, and I agree with her about more or less. This little committee I'm chairman of with such a long name is a very small part of all of this. If we're going to expand our Arctic business, and I'm gonna say yes, thanks to that, it seems that there's more interest in increasing it or keeping the strong outside of the states that make up the Arctic Council than there is in the inside. It's just because we're here that we're probably thinking all of this. But I'd like to list the devices we have. We have the North Pole. We have the conference, so little. We have the Ringboard of the North, a huge platform, a platform of discussion, an educational field, and a presentation site between people, no legal status or legal standing. It is the northern economic Council that wants to be forgotten. It's the North Sea Coast Guard Council that wants to be forgotten. It's Northern Forum, who's in the countryside. It is Northern Division, where there are Russia, Norway, Iceland and the European Union in cooperation. Then there's IASC, a North-generation team in the scientific field and then the University of the North. Look what we already have. So I think if we focus on working on this, we don't need to add some kind of center or agency here. We just have to work on this. I want to hear what I'm talking about. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u104	A respectable president. I appreciate that, man. A senator, saying that there is a wide range of interest outside the north. I can tell you that I have received a commission from both Japan and South Korea, and that was two things these Senate committees would most like to discuss with us. It was northern and equal. I've mentioned it a lot here. I agree with that. A senator says there are just a lot of scenarios. I certainly wasn't saying we had to make a new scene. In fact, I'm saying that in the international work of the Parliament, this committee may be called something else, perhaps even being more members of the Parliament, and having the opportunity to overlook more cooperation opportunities, not just SCPAR and the conference itself. That's just what I'm suggesting, and I'm more about the inside job of the council, a respectable president. I'm not talking about some kind of center or making something new. But we Icelanders can take advantage of this. I also wondered that we have at times been watching these huge opportunities in the northern regions, campaigns, rescue centres, and so forth, all very good and valid ideas and discussions that we need to develop. I'm saying, when it comes to how big Iceland is going to be in the northern world, there's an opportunity to bring people together, to promote science, research, and innovation. There's a place for Iceland to build a big place and a big part. And like a cot. A senator came in, and the interest is very wide. Around the north, tensions are increasing. It is a bit driven by the big nations, and a particular conflict between them, and often even small countries can be useful in bringing people together in discussions about something other than exactly what the superpowers sometimes want to emphasize. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u105	Mr. President. We still agree, me and what. Senator. It just tells us that sometimes the left and the right agree, that's as simple as it is. Let us then add some weight to the balance here at Congress to further the Arctic work. But I just want to introduce something else in this regard, and that is a review of the worldwide work that we both share in. I have ideas that, for example... That committee I'm in should be growing. We're three senators, they should be five. Now there are six members of the Western Committee, and I'm not suggesting that there be a decrease, perhaps about one; but on the other, it's not my proposal, they have to be many, too. Telecommunications need to be used to the extreme in order to keep this work very alive, to increase the number of meetings in a certain way. But in the end, I think the knife will stand a little in the cow with a bunch of senators. We are actually 53, who sometimes all of this committee work. I'm on two fixed committees, two other committees and two groups now, six groups. I know that all members of Congress are busy. I think it's long since it's time to add members of the council. I will not mention the number, it may be too steep, but the nation has increased, the affairs have increased, the numbers are increasing, and the people must respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. That is exactly what we often agree on in the field, and it is vital that we do so. But I'm good at it. A senator came in with this because we can disagree about one thing. I don't see a reason to increase the number of members of the Icelandic Parliament if that was the case. A senator was suggesting. On the other hand, I agree that there is a need to increase the number of members of Congress dealing with the Arctic and extending this committee. Hv. A senator only entered the Western Council. Yes, there are six members of the council, and in many respects this is too much compared to another worldwide work here at the council. On the other hand, this is because there are, of course, only three states in Congress, and it takes a certain size on such a site to make it rotten. There are six senators from every country. So I think there might be some way out of this. I just reiterate what I said earlier on the Arctic discussion, the importance of the Arctic affairs in all of our foreign politics is so great that I think it's a reason to expand this and to use it as a given opportunity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u107	Mr. President. I present a report by the NATO Council of Iceland by 2020. At the Council of NATO in 2020, a prime discussion of the effects of a pandemic crown virus had on the topic fields of the Council and on the response of the Member States to the epidemic was made. After the pandemic extended in the NATO Council of March, the decision was made to cancel the scheduled meetings and spring meetings planned for the Council in the Second Court in May. Afterward, all meetings and conferences were moved to electronic form, as well as to make changes in NATO regulations so that the epidemic could be resolved on remote meetings, such as selecting the new president of the NATO Council, and preventing further restrictions on the activities of the Council. The global epidemic set its mark on the council's work during the year and took all the topic committees of the Council reports on Covid-19 based on their field of affairs. At that time, an area for the presidents of the country was established for communication about the epidemic, as well as for the wide range of information on the epidemic in the Parliament's website. Congress was talking about the economic consequences of the pandemic as one of the biggest uncertainties in the coming years and saw that government funds would become one of the most difficult challenges for the Member States. Then the Council concluded on continued defence investments by Covid-19 and economic and world epidemics. Women's safety and defense status grew over the year. The Congress concluded on equality within NATO and the importance of implementing them into functions and policies related to security and protection through further implementation of the United Nations Safety Conclusions No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. Iceland's department welcomed conclusions and stressed that equality would be introduced into all of NATO's activities, both military and political. Then the Iceland Department called attention to Arctic affairs at the meeting of the NATO. The response of the Directorates of NATO to a U.S. Department inquiry at the Senate annual meeting showed that the Community would increasingly look to the territory. The importance of the northern routes would have increased, including with an melting force, a growing Russian military presence, and a keen interest in China in the north. So NATO put an extra emphasis on the north and would have increased his vision, increased military exercises, and improved protection against submarines. The senators, however, agreed on the importance of maintaining a low level of tension in the area as it would have been, despite the increase in military presence, especially in Russia. The NATO sent his contributions to the National Special Forces and Directorates of NATO on how to promote the cohesion of Member States and political consultation under the logos of NATO 2030. The Congress also agreed to a conclusion on the matter in which NATO is encouraged to update policy development in the light of changing circumstances. It even carries it. suggested that the alliance maintain strong protection against Russians and hold them responsible for breaking international law but remain open for conversation. Russia and China were also focused on this year. Members of the Parliament expressed concern about the rise in Russian military activities, the modern development of their military forces, and the passage of international commitments. Then the council concluded on China's economic abilities and policy across the Atlantic. It is, in fact, there. suggested that NATO appreciate the opportunities and challenges involved in international Chinese activities and that they know the possibility of talking further. China's influence on global power balance should be viewed on a broad scale. In addition, members of the Parliament expressed concern over the threat of false news campaigns throughout the pandemic, especially from Russia and China. Other major issues under discussion at the NATO Council of 2020 include a discussion on how NATO can strengthen its cooperation with the European Union, the situation at the Black Sea, in view of economic and geographic tensions in the region, innovation in defenses and ways of increasing the education and knowledge of the Union. There was also a discussion of developments in Afghanistan and the continuing support of the Community to the national administration, armed conflict in Nagorno-Krabakh, and a strong response of the government in the United States during protests following the election in August 2020. NATO is an Council of Congress, which has been the site of the Council members of NATO for security and protection. Until 1999, the Council carried the name of the Northern Atlantic Council, then called the NATO Council. In recent years, the number of Member States and the addition of the NATO Council has increased rapidly and has been expanded in accordance with the changes in countries that have previously belonged to the Soviet Union and the countries of central and Eastern Europe. Nine democratic states from the former Communist states are now being added to the council, as well as to the neutral European states, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland, which means that they can participate in activities and discussions at the council. The Council's work is increasingly focused on the overall security of Europe, economic and political problems in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and on the global security system. With the Rose-Roth programme, the council is also supporting the development of conniving democracy in Europe and nearby states. This is a fine chapter on how the council can be read about. So I take the less baptism and only mention the topic committees of the council, how the work and role and function of the council is carried out. The activities of the Parliament are largely carried out on five topic committees, political committees, Defense and Security Committee, the Economic Committee, the Scientific Committee and the Technologies Committee, and the National Security Committee. In addition, a great deal of activity is being carried out by the Mediterranean group, which does not have the position of a formal topic committee. These are the main topics of discussion, of contemporary issues that arise in their field of work, and of reporting on these reports. The nominees are usually presented in the form of proposals, declarations, or assumptions approved by the committee, and the council later votes. References are directed to the North Atlantic Council, which has the highest decision-making authority in NATO, and are encouraged to take certain measures. However, the views of the Council are directed to the governments of the Member States. The NATO Council consists of 269 members of the 30 Member States. The number of delegates from each country depends largely on the population. The largest commission in the United States is with 36 members of Congress, of which Iceland is among the smallest of three members. The chairmans of the council are seven, six of them presidents, and five vice presidents, elected each year by members of a council meeting. The seventh official is the treasurer, who chooses the board of directors every other year. NATO is controlled by a board of directors, which includes presidents, vice presidents, treasurers, and nomads, as well as presidents of all the branch offices of NATO. Here's some fun to say that all five vice presidents of the NATO council today are women, all elections at the annual meeting in November. The NATO Parliament's Iceland Department and its operation. The major members of the Iceland Department were in 2020, Vice President Trausti Friðbertsson, the Council of Independence, the Þorgerður President K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, the Council of Reunion, and the Company of Willum Þór Þórsson. The secretary of Iceland was Arna Gerður Bang an international secretary. And thank her for writing the report and writing that have been linked to this huge document presented here. Last year, there was only one conventional meeting, so let's call it a contact meeting. Otherwise, everything was electronic. The February meeting held in Brussels 17,◯19 February was quite a meeting. What may have happened most at that meeting was that in the last two years, Pelosi Pelosi, president of the United States Council, was a guest of the meeting. It included 4,07,250 members of Congress, both last year and previous meeting, who had established the security conference in Munich and then arrived at the February Summit in Brussels. The fact that such numbers have arrived may show how they view this in the U.S. Senate and the Senate. It hasn't happened before, at the Council of NATO, that such a number came to Brussels. In the fall of this year, a meeting of Friðbertsson of the board was held, and Arna and Bang Gerður an international secretary of the United States. The program included a pandemic of Korean virus, the political situation in the Member States, the affairs of White Russia, and the work ahead. The political situation in the Member States was next discussed with the challenge of the Covid-19 pandemic, the situation in White Russland, and the conflict in Nagorno-Karabah, as well as the members of the committees have severely condemned attempted murder in the Russian U.S.A., Navalní Nadalni. The President of the Parliament said that Member States face great challenges, the epidemic is still growing worldwide, and more of the population of Europe was exposed to infection. In unprecedented times such as this, it is important that the limitations of civil liberty be temporary, necessary, and legal. The Member States would still need to respond rapidly to the pandemic and ensure that the legislation is maintained by the Commission. Then the members of the committee expressed concern about the situation in White Russia and the disloyal situation in the country where protests had been almost without a break from the election in August. Dr. Karl Lamers, president of the German branch, reported that he and Svetlana Tsíkhanovskaja, leader of the government opposition in the United States, had recently met. He said she was a minister of peace, convinced that the people of White Russia continued to protest peacefully and not be silenced by oppressive powers. He said it was important that the NATO take further attention to White Russland matters, but he noted that Tsíkhanovskaja insisted that she did not want any outside involvement in the case. Then French senator Philippe Folliot stressed that the NATO took up a murder attempt at the Russian anti-Resister Navalní Naloni and sent a clear message to the Russian government, where the proposal was severely condemned. The annual meeting of 18,◯23. November was electronic, like other meetings from February. He lasted for six days, telecommunications lasted 4How5 hours a day, reaching 11 different time zones. It was a huge meeting. Some 280 senators from 30 Member States and representatives of 13 other countries attended the annual meeting. The conference's main talks were held in five judicial committees of the council, based on reports published by members of the Committee, and lectures by international experts on safety matters. At that time, a meeting was held that discussed the issues that had been held at the international security and defense debate and adopted a vote for the council's conclusions and decisions. The main topic of the meeting was security at the time of Covid-19, the future of NATO, and the impact of China on world power balance. A discussion on how NATO could strengthen its cooperation with the European Union, the Russian military structure, and the introduction of the UN Security Council of No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. For more information on the individual committees of the Parliament committees, see the NATO report. On November 23, the personal congregation meeting of NATO was held, where dignitaries delivered a reply and answered the questions of the delegates. Among those delivering were Kyriakos Mitsotakis, prime minister of Greece, and Jens Stoltenberg, the secretary - general of NATO. Stoltenberg stressed the importance of the cohesion of NATO countries during a pandemic and a number of safety challenges. He told NATO one of the areas where the European and North America countries meet each day and it is important to use it more fully for an honest discussion of security. Then the NATO military forces were shown respect for their role in the battle against Covid-19 and were encouraged to expand international cooperation. The Vatican was given attention to northern affairs at the conference, and Stoltenberg was asked if NATO would increasingly look to the territory. He answered yes, and he said that the importance of the north has increased, including the increase in the number of those in the north. with an melt in the area, an increase in Russian military presence and a keen interest in China. So NATO put extra emphasis on the north, and he would have increased his display, increased military exercises in the area, and added protection to subs. It would be necessary for the North Atlantic to be protected and the sea level of the Community. Then NATO would have opened a new Atlantic Army government in Norfolk, Virginia, U.S.A. During the conference, Ramít Friðbertsson welcomed a further resolution by the United Nations Security Council of No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. One of the aims of the conclusion would be to promote a more reasonable agent for both men and women when faced with defenses and the pursuit of peace. Then Njáll Trausti of the Director of NATO asked if he saw an increased emphasis on equality and whether it would strengthen the position of women in NATO. Stoltenberg stated in priority that all activities of NATO, both military and political, will be introduced. Furthermore, sexual abuse and harassment would have to be eliminated within the alliance. Then he specifically mentioned the activities of NATO in Afghanistan, where the Community has emphasized the role of operating and supporting women in the region. U.S. senator Gerald E. Connolly was elected new president of the NATO Council and took him into the office of Attila Mesterházy from Hungary. He introduced delegates to the resolution of the annual meeting entitled NATO 2030: a stronger and united international alliance. At the NATO summit in December 2019, Stoltenberg was assigned to appreciate how to improve the cooperation of Member States and political consultations. For their advice, Stoltenberg appointed a group of ten specialists to discuss the situation and the future of NATO under the markings of NATO 2030. The resolution of the annual meeting is encouraged to update their policy in the light of changed circumstances. It is suggested that the alliance maintain strong defense against the Russians, hold them responsible for breaking international law, but remain open for conversation. In China's affairs, NATO was suggested to face the opportunities and challenges of ambition and the actions of Chinese international bison and to explore opportunities for conversation. As the year passed and the NATO developed the use of telecommunications in committee work, committees began to increase their number. In addition to the telecommunication of the heads of states and the Baltic States (NB8) of the National and Scientific Committee (NjállTrausti, Ramíli Friðbertsson Friiðtirsson was involved in the telecommunications of the Scientific and Technical Committee and the National states (NB8). Then the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, daughter of the Mediterranean Sea, was involved in a telecommunications of the Defense and Security Committee and a work group. Willum Þór Thor Þórsson also participated in the telecommunications of the NATO Council. In addition, representatives of Iceland attended various telecommunications organized during the year on the issues of the NATO Council. The package then presents the conclusions adopted at the NATO Council in 2020 and can be found in the report. So it's a huge document and a lot of things to go to the end of the NATO Council work, very powerful. It is amazing what has been able to keep it going at this time of Covid. Yet, it is clear that it is not the same when delegates meet at telecommunications or at international meetings. It's especially hard to control the big meetings. Just in the end, I'd like to talk to a Rose-Roth conference, since I didn't report last year. In April 2019, I attended that meeting in Turkey. We sat for four days, ten hours a day, and we received lectures from generals and university professors from around the world and in the big context. There was a lot of talk, and we were introduced in Arabic in the spring, what happened in North Africa, Tunisia, and Egypt, beginning with the Syria War, the refugee stream into Europe, and the mess that will occur in political politics in Europe following, this breakdown in the politics, to divide and, as we know, the plutonium of politics and such. It can be very informative at such a conference to see this context. It's gonna be a little bit vivid. That's one of the things I wanted to just finish off that came from one university professor. It was very interesting. He said there were 200 national states in the world and there were less than 20% who actually lived with what we call a real democracy, 20% of the whole. There would just be nothing for this thing, and we would really have to bother with the democracy. That would be a very new concept, democracy. I wanted to make this happen because I couldn't give the talk last year because I was in Brussels. What she said at this meeting is still in you and you've been thinking about it since then, i.e. This is the democracy. And we see what is taking place around the world today that is related to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u108	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson for our report. Now it's a coalition. It's like a sledgehammer. A senator knows. There are two things I would like to mention, one on the other of this tension, low suspense or what men would call it, in the north, where it goes a bit like ping-pong, some would call this spiral. They're taking sides with some kind of threat, military exercise or new weapons, or whatever it is. Then I'd like to hear a speculation. A senator about how to break the vicious ring I'd like to call. What if one person even eliminates the equipment or exercise or what? That's the second question. The other is the matter of nuclear combat. Recently, many countries had signed and validated the United Nations covenant for the removal of nuclear weapons, but NATO countries have not wanted to do so. I'd like to hear the argument about it, she might be. A senator, or just NATO, from which he echoes. But I am deeply distressed by the fact that this is one of the most terrifying threats to face, not just global warming that we need to consider, or Covid, but the existence of nuclear weapons in all kinds of hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. A low - tension area is just what Jens Stoltenberg, director of NATO, spoke of trying to maintain it, how important it is to maintain that condition. The interest has increased, and there is a measure of concern in NATO. It's going crazy, like what we're doing. A senator entered his talk earlier tonight, on the northern coast of Russia, there are search and rescue stations or military bases. Whether there are search and rescue or military bases, these six or eight stations, or how many of them are discussed. The Russians are heading toward, I believe, that 40% of their land production comes from gas plants and oil areas north of the north, Siberia. It's their policy, like they're activating it. Russia has emphasized the Barents Sea and its nuclear submarine, located in the Murmansk area and the White Sea. NATO's course in the short edition, and we are part of NATO, is this subterfuge. That's the word that's been used. They've got it, we've got it, and then nothing's going to happen. But like a dog. A senator introduces them as a natural danger, and he himself grew up with it. The Day Afterter movie came out -- I wonder if you were about ten. You remember those times and the Cold War. But this is in the short version. It's about financing power, and on top of that, the course goes in short.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u110	Mr. President. I thank the senator again. This ping-pong game always goes out on the outside to argue that the opponent has moved up on the handle. And yes, we can even say that he does, add one of the military bases, or that the others add one more large military exercise. Some record shooting within 200 miles of jurisdiction from the others, and others respond by going all the way on a cruise course that the opponent doesn't want or anything. It's that vicious ring I'm talking about having to break. If there's no formula, we just need to find it because it's not healthy and can lead us further and further into some sort of swamp, tension that we don't want to go into. With my nuclear weapons, I know the power of depression. It does not automatically prevent them from being used, and we know exactly what it means if they will ever be used anywhere. Then we've reached a dangerous stage. There are more and more people who either develop these weapons or cross them. And I think the NATO state, whether or not, must listen to the will of the nations of the world when they may be 150 who have signed and validated this agreement. Let's just see where time goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u111	Mr. President. This may be in the context of things as discussed earlier this evening, in relation to climate and other global warming. Hv. A senator entered mining. It has been spoken of oil wells, shipping routes, northeast, northwest route, straight across the pole. All of this is creating a measure of international tension. Is this how it will be possible to cross the pole directly after 2030, as we have heard from our committee working on Arctic policy? That's 10 years from now. These are amazingly fast changes. We've also heard of some time, in our Arctic Summit, a fear that this area, by means of navigation so far north, will be a smaller version of the Yellow Sea and what is happening there in the world political state. So it's not simple. But there's a great will, I find, from the Director of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, in his language at the meetings I've been sitting in, trying to keep this low-shortness. But we also know that the United States re-enforced the Norwegian Armada that concentrates on the Atlantic Ocean and the northern North Atlantic, so high. And like a cot. A senator entered, once again visible in the Barent Sea, U.S.A. During the November annual meeting, the British discussed the subject and asked for it. So we can see it from around here and these countries are looking at this area. But I think I'm at the nuclear submarines with nuclear weapons. I think that's the biggest dread of NATO's.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-02-04-53.u112	Mr. President. I present a report by the European Parliamentary Commission and the EEA by 2020. The European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the European Economic Area, EEA, play an important role as the foundation of the Icelandic foreign trade. With the involvement of the EEA, the majority of Icelanders share the same business sectors as 30 other European countries with over 460 million people markets from the EU, that market reduced them by some 40 million people, I think it is. In addition to the implementation of the EEA Convention, EFTA has built a powerful network of free trade agreements with non-EU countries called third countries. The European Commission of Covid-19 set its mark on the work of the Council Committees of EFTA and EEA during the year, as well as on the whole of the rest of the international work of the Generals. The committees changed their circumstances by moving their work into remote meeting plans. Instead of traditional meetings in the EU Member States and at the European Parliament's work centres, more and shorter telecommunications were organized. The global epidemic itself and its impact on the EEA community was focused on the work of the Senate committees during the year. The situation of the epidemic was regularly reviewed in individual EU Member States, its economic impact and the response of the government. Both the cooperation of EFTA and the European Union were dealt with. At the beginning of the epidemic, e.g. and to import Europeans who had become involved in distant parts of the world when air travel was reduced and in some places stopped when the limit of travel was established. At that time, EFTA countries were given an EU ban to export protective equipment to health care professionals. Participants of the EFTA countries in the EU's common reservations and purchases of vaccines were referred to as particularly important, as well as the co-work of the competent authorities and the strains of the EFTA countries with comparable EU institutions. In addition, consultations with the sources and scopes of the EEA's regulations for government granting were particularly important when European state funds were denounced in an unprecedented way into the economy in order to protect jobs and businesses, thus preventing a deeper economic crisis. The EFTA Free Trade Convention with non-EU countries, a so - called third state, was on the front schedule of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. EFTA has been on a global level in free trade agreements, which are now 29 treatable and include 40 countries. The EU's second largest export market has 12% share in the export of EFTA. The global epidemic was EFTA vacation business during the year, as was other aspects of the operation. Although these have been partly maintained by telecommunications, the talk slowed down with a new pandemic society. In recent years, the EFTA Parliamentary Committee has loyally supported the work of EFTA vacation agreements and uses emissaries and senators visits to promote and support such agreements. The Directorate - General of Congress EFTA was intended to arrange a telecommunication with leaders in the Thai Parliament and the Ministry of Business during the year. After years of sitting down, it is expected that the formal free - free business talks of EFTA and Thailand will resume in 2021. Finally, the future relationship of EFTA with Britain was repeated after the EU exit and thereby the EEA. Other issues that were at the top of the European Parliament's Committees for Human Protection and Sustainable Development include the European Union's business policy, the provision of free trade agreements on electronic transactions and on the other hand, on the basis of work protection and sustainable development, and on the provision of free shops. For a brief explanation, the U.S. Department of Parliamentary Committees of EFTA and the EEA embassy of both the EFTA and the European Parliamentary Committee will form. At that time, the Iceland Department, along with four members of the State Department's Department of Foreign Affairs, will form the General Assembly Committee for the Joint Council Committee of Iceland and the EU. I'm not going to review the entire history of the Senate committee, even though it was an interesting and remarkable story, it would take a long time. But it's all in the report, and it's very good. Instead, I'm going to do a little more on the work that, as I mentioned, was going on a huge number of pandemics of Covid-19. Instead of standard conferences, we had more and shorter telethon, a total of 12 of them, or 11 telecommunications, and one meeting was held in Brussels on February 4. I'm not going to go into all the things that were going on at all the meetings, but I'm going to tap on a big one, and I'm going to paint a special picture. There are a lot of the same themes that come up with many of these meetings. It's always about Iceland's holiday business and other EFTA countries and EU countries. I'm just gonna try to give you a single of the main things. The Council Committee meeting in Brussels was held on February 4th, four days after Bfenit, i.e. British passage from the European Union. On the day before the meeting, Michel Barnier, the European Commission's main agreement for Bgret, as well as for discussions about the EU's future relationship with Britain, proposed the EU contracting status for future negotiations. Then Boris Johnson, prime minister of Britain, gave a talk in Greenwich, where he presented a vision of the British government for the future relationship. At our meeting, Clara Martinez-Martinez-Alberola, vice president of the European Commission's Group for Contact with Britain, Hermione Gough, director of the cooperation of Britain and the EU in the National Association Committee for the EU, and Rem Korteweg from the Netherlands State Department. There was much in the coverage there, including On the basis of the evidence of the European Union's negotiations. One contract was issued that should cover all aspects of the work. We also met at Phil Hogan's meeting, which at that time handled business for the European Commission, where he considered the Community business policy, and he even discussed it. on the importance of cooperation with the EFTA countries, which would have been the third largest commercial partner in the European Union after the United States and China with 10.5% share in total European Union trade. His case showed that the major challenges are now the business relationship with China, the United States, and, of course, the future European Union with Britain. Another meeting of the Senate Committee, a telecommunication, was held on April 23, where we considered what has been called the European model in response to the epidemic. At that time, the epidemic was on the move, discussing a huge increase in cost, focusing on protecting jobs by the State temporarily participating in the pay expenses of the enterprises that had been hit. It was interesting to hear the difference in approach, e.g. Norwegian, Switzerland, and Iceland in it and, of course, how the European Union had access to these matters. I'm gonna jump over a few meetings, it all goes down in the report, but I'd like to say that at the telecommunications of the Parliaments and Ministers of EFTA on June 8, it was a discussion of the EFTA holiday contracts, and it came out, as I mentioned earlier, that the contracts are 29 people, reaching 40 states. The EU's second largest export market with 12% share in the export of EFTA. An ongoing discussion with new partners would have been delayed in the pandemic but would have been kept to some extent by telecommunications. Work on a legal passage on the Mercos, a customs alliance of four South Americas, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, would thus have been extended but it would have been planned to sign the contract after the crossing was over. In fact, on October 27, we found that the legal review was available, so there is no longer anything that stands in its way. Also, discussions with India, Malaysia, and Vietnam would have been difficult. Of course, there are many factors that keep us from being successful. There is an ongoing discussion with Chile and South Africa's customs alliance to update the EFTA free trade agreements to these parties. On October 27, I mentioned our meeting that covered the same things but also said that hopes for formal free business discussions with Moldova, Cosvo, and Thailand would begin in 2021. In addition, it was stated that a great deal of emphasis was placed on Iceland and Norway to work on an update to the EFTA Free Trade Convention in Canada. During the year, work within EFTA was also covered with standard texts of electronic transactions for the EFTA vacation agreements. The text is intended for use in every discussion about new and updated free trade agreements that would then be given a special section on this subject, i.e. It's an electronic business. This is important because when people walk up to the table of negotiations, it is good to have some basis and to cross the foundation and to have standard text ready for all major sections, there is an understanding between the EFTA countries as to what our initial contract is but also what is expected of us in the negotiation process. Work within EFTA was also reviewed by a review of the work programme on work protection and sustainable development that has been in all EU free trade agreements since 2010. There's a lot going on there. Now I jump back over a bunch of great things, but just to mention what sort of peculiar things I'm jumping over them is that. e.g. A joint shopping system in the EEA and a possible involvement in it, including the implementation of the third energy package, the financial package, would have occurred here in Iceland, and the hopes for the quick induction of the environmental energy package, which is, so I'm calling it, not the fourth energy package. This is an environmental energy package that is involved in the use of less fossil fuels in electricity production. There are a lot of things that happened. But let me mention that in a discussion of cooperation at the Covid-19 pandemic we had a conversation at a meeting of the European Parliament Committee of Iceland and the European Union on November 9, where Zdzislaw Krasnodebski and Sigríður On. Andersen gave the story. There the Krasnodebski government praised the success of the epidemic in Iceland by periodic screening and traceive transmission of infectious diseases. Then he was curious about why the number of infections would increase in the second wave of the epidemic and also wanted to hear more about the new restrictions Iceland had set on traveling. This is to emphasize that there is an active conversation between Iceland's members and the European Union on these matters so that we can understand each other better, know what is happening, and even guide each other according to events. This conversation was very helpful in that regard. Finally, I would like to mention the European Parliamentary Commission's telecommunications committee on November 16, which included: discussed the importance of getting the sense into the communities in our countries, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, that the EEA community is strong. However, there is a need to improve the information available to the public on its benefits, in fact both the EFTA and the EU side of the partnership. I may not mention this least because there have been many examples of ignorance, even in the European administration system, of how the EEA works and what role it plays, not to mention in enterprises which are really part of the internal market, just as we do, but are not aware that Iceland and Norway and Liechtenstein are within the local market. This is a conversation that we need to be more diligent in holding and promoting in order to protect our interests and, above all, to make more of our place in the cooperation. Otherwise, we may not necessarily have legal laws and other laws and that our business will be really inhibited, even if there are every legal basis for our business. I'm not going to go into any other special meeting. There were many other developments, and in spite of a pandemic, this was actually a very powerful year for the Council Committee of EFTA and EEA. I think there's good reason to thank specifically the secretary of the Committee, Stígur Stefánsson, for keeping really tight of all our work and often reminding me when I'm forgetting something I'm supposed to remember, so that it's not talked about helping us in general get things right from us. There is also reason to thank all our colleagues at the Norwegian Parliament and therefore Swiss and Liechtensteinian for their work and good cooperation where I suspect this will be the last report I give as chairman of this committee. It's been really rewarding and good work for the past four years, so I'm really excited about trying to finish it with a bang. We've got a lot ahead of us this year, and all I expect is the work going to be powerful for the future.
