ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u1	A respectable president. It is always interesting to weigh the overlap between parties within the administration. The 11 Ministry has ten, and the 11 ministers have the various litigation classes. Some ministers have a number of lawsuits on their minds, and the overlap of the lawsuits varies as it goes. I'd like to represent marine and agricultural, environmental and resource-related issues. What do fishing roads and agriculture have in common? Yeah, it's pretty obvious. It is producing food. Of course, the use of resources can be discussed. So let's get into some environmental and resource business. There is a sharp distinction between lawsuits. In very short, it all depends on the use and protection of the nation's resources outside the seawater resources. Farming is indeed the use of resources. Agriculture and environment are closely linked to the use and protection. Farmers are citizens of the country and projects such as Farmers enriching the land, agriculture and GóLind are all projects that have produced tremendous results in the healing process, and the recovery of land quality as well as carbon binding. Many farms are forested along with other farms and forestry for use or forestry for carbon binding. A respectable president. A major resource is the country itself, and one of the many opportunities for future use on land becomes a source of carbon binding. Tremendous opportunities and interests come from a carbon binding process. The ability to sell carbon binding on land may be an important factor in trusting the general population and inhabited. Thus, land, agriculture, forestry, and agriculture need to be greatly increased. It might be interesting, then, to revise plans for success. The cases that are well shared in this future challenge are the Department of Agriculture and the Environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u2	President. For written requests to the minister, I compiled in March of the previous number of queries for the minister and calculated the average time of reply to the queries, which was an average of 34 days for every inquiry. A total of 172 queries had been answered a year ago. Today, 130 queries have been answered, much less than at the same time each year, but the response time is very similar, on average, 32 days. Although 37% more queries have been answered at the same time last year, response time has not been strong. The Ministers who are the longest in response this year are financial and economic ministers, but the average time is 51 days for the 12 questions he has answered for the rest of this council. The mean duration of response in the highest range. Secretary of education and culture is 45 days for 11 queries. There is now a management and monitoring committee on a subject on which to increase the number of days required to answer written queries to 25 and at present there are only five ministers at that threshold. V.E.G. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers had 25 days' return period for four queries at this council. If the question was taken into account, it would exceed 25 days. V.E.G. Transport and Regional Minister has a 23 day responder time on average for nine queries but the highest. The minister of health has been the fastest minister to answer; it has answered 19 questions in an average of 22 days. Despite the reduction in queries, including of Covid and less work around it, the mean duration of response is not strong. So you wonder if there is any reason to increase the length of comments made by the Ministry and Minister or if it takes other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u3	President. I have watched with interest an interesting meeting held by Ephling, ASI, and the Service Committee regarding the situation of foreign workers in a labour market. This is a matter in which we need to be aware that we are more concerned. These are the people who came to the country and kept driving economic growth and valuables in society, and these are the people who, in some respects, are now in the professional state of which the Korean virus has created. Looking to the Southnes, this group has an enormous amount of employment, which needs special attention. But I've been paying particular attention to the emphasis the labor movement has had on the rights of these people, for it is extremely important that we provide them with rights, such as everyone in the labour market, and we prevent blundering and stealing money against this group. We want to be able to boast about where not only good rights are but also to make sure that all, regardless of rank or status, will enjoy them. This is something that we need to take extremely seriously when we are going to the building phase, when we create the future economy and work environment that we want to see when we cope with the crisis, especially in the tourism industry. Everyone's rights need to be considered, and that everyone, regardless of rank or rank, will enjoy them, because, President, foreign staff is not for single use.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u4	A respectable president. There is good reason to agree with the previous speaker, but I'm going to discuss the respect of the Generals, who is primarily based on the conduct of members of Congress toward others. More often than not, it is the most widely spoken members of the council who, like recent examples, detract it by their speech and attitude toward the media and the rules and duties of the council. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson has discussed the clothing of members of the council at the council meeting. That's where I agree. A senator and heartbreakingly how senators get away with showing disrespect for the Council of II in improper dress. A respectable president. I would also like to make a comment on how Congressmen and ministers have been able to endure in their families when they die. Recently, the greatest was lost. Healthcare Minister, His father, Svandís Svavarsdóttir. There was no room for the minister and her family to mourn over the dead father and grandfather. The media administrations were attacked, and here at the Assembly Hall, when she should have been given peace to mourn with her family. The same thing happened when it happened. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen was the minister of justice and suffered a terrible loss of a mother. Some two years ago, the European Court of Human Rights published judgment in a so - called national court. This caused several members of the council to criticize the local authorities. The minister of justice was very aggressive as the news flew through the sleepless news that did not remain. That same day, the mother of the minister in the family's arms died, but the minister endured strong criticism by members of the Parliament and the press all day long and no refuge was given. It is too much for a respectable president, when this is the case with counsellors and members of the council and the media during a time of sorrow. Our trust in what we do here in the power of the voters will never be more than the respect we show to one another and the General as the highest organization in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u5	A respectable president. The European Space Agency, in English known as the European Space Age, is now advertising the vacancy of astronauts. You might ask: What should we say to our children when they dream of becoming astronauts? Well, we tell them that they must first become alien residents. They need to live in a country that is involved in space science, such as in the European NASA of NASA. They could go to Luxembourg, where they live about 620,000 people and yet there are flourishing space industry and education, especially, or they could go to Malta, where there is 520,000 people, and become citizens there and possibly become astronauts at some future time. But even though we're not involved in this work, there are a number of space sciences in Iceland. I'd like to mention three things, although I could mention more. First, in Iceland, already operates as Iceland's Space and Technology Office, in English Space Iceland, a service agency for the European Space Science and Technology industry that cooperates with parties around the world to drag here a foreign investment and cooperation in the Icelandic space industry with more than 40 partners already, within the country and abroad. This institution was formed after the Council's resolution in 2016 to begin a application procedure at the European NASA of NASA. Second, I'd like to mention the ESA cysticus Masters, an international competition for the solution to problems by using landline data. Then, in 2018, the Icelandic company won a competition with Myriad, a project on automatic recovery. Third, I want to say that Skyrora, a Scottish rocket company, launched an experimental shot in Iceland on August 16, 2020, the first of all, hopefully three. It's the first time a rocket launch was launched in Iceland for over 50 years. A respectable president. I could list other things, e.g. the ability to expand the ELTOS system or the historical association of Iceland with the Apollo project. But I would like to finish saying that Iceland has nothing less to do with space science than with other countries or with other international cooperations in science and technology. [[The president calls.]] The industry around space science has tremendous opportunities for which the Council has already declared willingness to seize. [[The president calls.]] I really hope the government sees this opportunity, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u6	Mr. President. Sometimes it is said: The works speak. At least does not apply to the government of government when it comes to public investments. According to new data from Iceland's Hauspah, public investments have fallen by 9.3% in 2020. It is the second consecutive year when public investments are drawn together, while the contractions were 10.8% in 2019 C.E. According to the word of the government, behold, the words that have not been made. This data suggests that more is being spoken than done. There is also the fact that the European Commission is fully prepared to set up projects and investments at the time it is most necessary because, at the same time, commercial investments have become greatly attached. There is no room for a wide range of projects. It shows new reports, such as from the Industrial Association, of the need for new projects, as well as of various maintenances. Unfortunately, most of the projects and public investments are likely to take place at a time when public employment is getting started and therefore will have a negative impact on the Icelandic economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u7	President. Although the present pandemic has brought death to most aspects of daily life at some point, it has kept a wide range of modern technology and technology in focus. Even the General meetings have moved to the telecommunication form. Similarly, in record-time, we have seen a highly advanced infectious barometer developed here. But where's the General Opportunity? During our basic policy, Pirata and I focus on critical thinking and well - informed decisions. Why not make it possible for the public to observe more closely what is taking place here in the field of democracy? As salaries have become popular, people could listen and watch meetings in the same way that popular radios do. The App may help to keep people informed about matters involving the council. People may watch a specific subject and receive announcements when it comes to the program or to form a vote or a review. People may be notified of matters that had just entered government consultations, information on elections, and election results. There could be videocassettes on how the Council operates, a list of members' e - mails, and so on. With the app, members of Parliament could be available in easy - to - do form so that members of the Parliament would not need to use screen recordings to share their talks, as I will have to do after this talk below. Although democracy may cost money, a respectable president, it would not have to be expensive at all, it could even finance itself by selling an AWA student through the Internet. Another Assembly has done this, Britain, to form. I encourage interested people to download the British Parliament's Congress, by permission of Presidents, UK Congress, or the United Kingdom Congress. I would like to encourage the General to look at this seriously and to update the General Assembly further, to strengthen the direct democracy and to promote transparent administration in the shapes offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u8	A respectable president. Hospital emergency departments are under stress, and people are asked to look elsewhere. A hospital in the U.S.R. asks people who are sick or who have minor accidents that do not require urgent medical attention to seek further medical care or medical care. Of course, the fact is that if people become slightly ill or suffer from minor injuries, they should never seek the emergency room. The ER is, of course, an emergency reception and is to be received by the weakest of us. But why is this such a respectable president? I'm not gonna say I know the answer to all that. But why are we not further promoting health care and medical care? Here in the capital area, there is one medical watch for this vast area. That's where all these sick people come together in one room waiting a long time for help. Most people should now know well in health. Why are we not adding to these factors too? Why can't you order a zoom meeting with your doctor or get zoom's help in the face of such a situation? Recent cases of people waiting for an hour and a half of the medical department to get proof that they are not infected with Covid so that they can travel abroad? Here comes a healthy person who has just had a Covid test, into the medical department and has to wait with all the sick people to get a plunger from a doctor. A respectable president. This isn't working. We must be able to use our technology more fully. Speaking of investments: The need for health care is high, and it is increasing only with the people's aging. This is the largest part of our budget, i.e. health care expenses. We simply have to think things over again, allow innovation and technology to flourish in this sector. This is the only way that we can continue to provide good health care when people increase and the elderly grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u9	Mr. President. In the United States, there is a strong debate about the implementation of a common marine resource, primarily on currency and rights. Each year, a tens of millions of dollars are sitting on top of this supervillain, clinging to their mouths and setting them up in hunting grounds as if they belong to them. This is where the people will have their fair and acceptable share. The present system is opaque as few people understand, and the cost of hunting is so low that the necessary scientific work related directly to the article, stock analysis, or land cover is lower than the income of tobacco costs, lower than the introduction for the sale of sports permits in the country. Mr. President. There are some careful implementations where the foundation of the enterprise is secure and there can be continued, perhaps even growing. This is possible, but stakeholders, for instance, strike back and uses all their energy to exasperate those who suggest simplicity and fairness, expound them almost as dignitaries who have the sole purpose of destroying the article, destroying the seabed. These are myths that the people cannot accept. Mr. President. The Management Board of Greenland collects a much higher catch payment than is customary in Iceland. At the beginning of 2018, the value of a new fishing system was greatly improved by society. Actually, this is not the way we in the United States prefer to speak, but the output is clear, the understanding is complete; the resource is the property of the nation, and it makes a reasonable amount of money to run the community. In 2017, the Greenland fishing fees were just about $4.5 billion, whereas in 2018, it is just under 9.5 billion, and that is an erupting product in the following article. Greenland has made a four - year - old fishing contract with the European Union that pays for about four times the price of each given a pound of cod water than the one that the Icelandic government receives through the fishing fee and income tax. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter of speech. It's all about society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u10	Mr. President. The case is what we're going through right now, the restless in two of the four smokebones. We may be able to change rapidly, but there are two major tremors on the other hand, and then eruptions and volcanic eruptions are never welcome. It's very important to say, in my opinion. A quick accumulation has occurred almost since the beginning of these metabolic events due to tremors observed in measurements. It has now been confirmed by satellite measurements that the formation of a spring - filled crack of 1.5, perhaps six feet [2 m] in width, is in evidence. Of course, the current reactions and words are crystal crystal established by the Weather Room, by the Public Protection Council, and by the National Science Institute of the University of Iceland. So there's a probability of a match for the fire, but it's not exactly evaluated, it's not possible. But the chances are higher every day if these shakes do not quickly diminish. The odds are somewhat small from a crack - crack system that is taught at the Grinch, or Cyrsuvik, and could - I might say - be the beginning of a eruption that lasts for months, for years or even two to three decades, compared to the metabolism in the 10th and 11th centuries, the 12th, and the 13th centuries. So this is a short or long edition of the Cruces Fires that many people remember. Mr. President. I'll mention this here because the council can soon be a major natural problem. Then there is the fact, remain calm, trust in science, and work transversely. Regarding the impact on society, it is difficult to predict, as is the case at all times, a famous geographer's answer: We still appreciate the effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u11	V.E.G. President. The forces of nature certainly remind us of Iceland, and at the same time, the world looks to work out of Covid and to a new time with a green, functional, creative economy, where everyone is in the same boat that no one is left behind. To accomplish this, we need to figure out the total economy, the impact of state funds and the Covid actions. New updated national interest rates indicate that the cost of production in the economy in 2020 is about 8.6%, meaning 276 billion. That means it costs 1 billion a day in Covid. If we look at the State Fund that time, we have an estimate of the same size. It also takes 1 billion a day to face these expenses. I would estimate, more dignified President, that the swing balance, the contracting, and the moves with the multiplication effect will help here and have the purpose of padding the punch and leveling the game as possible. But the game isn't over. We should now stay focused on the effort to look at these sizes and focus on the economic and commercial issues of resistance and employment, and the extension of action that has worked so far, thus leading us to the last yards, continuing into this global economy. That means even. to extend part-time work, payment, expand workforce, increase support loans, expand money grant, improve scholarship, improve academic living, summer jobs, and provide additional opportunities to deal with accumulated Covid debt and payment deadlines. In order to support the companies and homes, the bank and credit institutions need to bring a trust fund to that work. That's how we finish the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u12	A respectable president. We've got reports of that from at least two European countries have begun to think outside the box, as popular in some cases, about vaccination and pandemic response. If I understand the news correctly, the Danish prime minister and the Austrian Chancellor will go together tomorrow, if I am not mistaken, to Israel and find out the possibility of cooperation with Israel or at least to provide information on vaccine production and continued response to this virus, which, if indicated by experts, will likely be with us for the next few years, if not decades. These reports are now from Denmark, in addition to the news that Dan was here a few days ago interested in and searched for, at least in a informal fashion, the shops buy additional doses of AstraZeneca vaccine from Switzerland. At that point, Switzerland had decided not to use it, was stuck with a large supply, and is still stuck with a large supply of that vaccine, apart from having purchased a huge amount of vaccine that works by far the Swiss nation. It is, for example, that the Swiss have to get rid of it. I'm here to mention this because a discussion about the possible cooperation of Icelanders with Pfizer, who did not survive, was criticized by some, particularly because of the fact that some of Iceland's contracts were under way with the European Union. I think it's something to consider, and the Icelandic government should do everything in their power to speed up vaccinations here and buy the doses available to us, including in other countries the EFTA or the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u13	A respectable president. It is a month for the government to put forth their affairs, and I would like to encourage them to do so, especially those that affect the economic and economic lives of the people of the country. However, it is clear that despite having shown little other than forethought, restraint, and control during this ideal period, certain classes are already starting to blow into the door of freedom. And why do I say that? Because now that we have some experience here at the council, we lose these little matters that still matter so much, these little, important freedoms that have been waiting for far too long. Many write about their importance and dress with them on social media and elsewhere. But when it comes to finishing the case, nothing happens. The Minister of Justice was in the middle of a liquor network, which became a matter of sales at the site of manufacture. That is certainly a matter of freedom in some sense, but that is only a very small and diluted matter of freedom. I can give you another example. The Human Name Committee, that's what the Governments here said, including the Independence Party. Free sale of drugs, we built a program, freedom steps, in the sale of certain types of drugs at grocery stores, as we know many abroad; it was canceled. Cab market freedom, it can't go on. Alcohol at shops, consumer freedoms, and so much so that the serrano skin is listed here. However, I would like to point out some material that concerns me, which is the natural CBD supplement for all kinds of disorders. I think it's important that we complete that freedom matter to the full. We have authorized a trade with the industrial disaster, but we need to now allow the full supply of food supplies, whether they are in the form of an oil jar or groceries. According to this, I'd like to underline, a respectable president, that Correction will make adjustments in the case of the Minister of Justice, which, in fact, hides. in that we will request that the council be at the home of the government's networks to which the government groups have so far prevented the approval of the council. [[The president calls.]] We'll make sure the Senate gets the freedom steps at least Discuss here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u14	A respectable president. Some 2,000 people have brain injuries every year in this country. Of these, 200 sheep cope with long - term sequelae and disability. There may be many causes of injury; road accidents, violence, sports accidents, and falls. There are also many consequences, ranging from long - term physical pain, impaired ability, and the treatment of behavioral matters. Then there is a serious risk that personality changes are caused by brain damage. For good reason, the consequences are called the silent epidemic. In recent years, the pleas of people who have suffered brain injury and the experts in that field have been to improve the diagnosis and registration of brain injuries and to promote specific intervention, treatment and support for those who have been affected by brain trauma. Each year ten more sufferers suffer severe behavioral problems after brain injury. In particular, this group is missing on national treatments and rehabilitation techniques. There is also a larger population with long - term consequences, since those close to a person with brain damage, family, and friends are standing up with the problem and have a closed door in the community. Brain injury can be accompanied by mental problems, many health problems, and social isolation. These individuals are isolated, not treated, and not re-instrated. In this context, Canada has given birth to a well - motivated neurospetism abroad. To improve independence and quality of life, it is to improve your ability and self - control. A respectable president. Tomorrow, there will be a special debate at the conference Hall on rehabilitation strategies for people with known brain damage. That's where I'm gonna have a conversation with the highest. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. It is of national importance to take firm hold of this group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u15	Mr. President. One of the major projects ahead is to deal with the massive unemployment we live in and have been caused primarily by the failure of tourism following the Covid pandemic. As we know, governments have played out a number of job markets in support of people and businesses, and there are still more activities on the way to meet people in the long - term lack of employment, contribute to the function, and will bridge the space needed to return the travel service. Happily, in many parts of the earth, there is a need for people to do a wide variety of work. In many parts of the country, employment has been reported and housing is not available at all. Young people have increased interest in sitting in the country and taking advantage of the opportunities and quality of life that result from living with their family in a less stressful environment, where there are short - term services, and more freedoms and opportunities to raise children. It is a pleasant surprise to many to learn what the country has to offer and how much opportunities are available for industrial development or to take with it jobs that can be used to work on telecommunications anywhere in the country. A job without a location has never been more practical today. The Covid situation has taught us that telecommunications have come to exist, which is a great thing about the possibility of living anywhere in the country. In many parts of the country, there is also a position to develop various forms of telecommunication. So I challenge all companies and organizations, both in the public sector and the private sector, to welcome the possibilities of using the facilities and the human resources available for advertising jobs that can be carried out anywhere. All that needs is to be done, that has been shown to us in recent years, and these opportunities for employment may be a major source for the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u16	A respectable president. On the website of the Micro-Community Association, the Social Science Agency reports on the status of those who rely on food assistance in relief organizations. It even says, by permission of the president: The report explains how weak the situation of those who rely on disability and unemployment is. [...] More than once during the 12 months preceding the survey, most participants had had had had to make use of the assistance. The proportion of people in need of assistance each month was the highest at the AIDS Committee, Reykjavík, 44%, and Iceland's Family Help, 36%. Thirty percent of those who go to Iceland's Family Help, Southnes, come every month. [...] The vast majority of surveyed said that they were seeking help because of unemployment or low incomes. The provision of responders reveals that a large proportion of them have an income of less than 300,000 dollars. per month. Most of those who seek assistance from the Salvation Army, or 53%, have an income of $200,000. On average, the cost of housing was 158,000 U.S. every month, about 62% of the house's provisional items. For a single parent with one child and no car of 129,120 k. per month, without expenses. Based on the average house - to - house cost of those surveyed at 158,000 bucks, it is clear that an average of 287,120 k. Governments are under obligation to reduce, let alone poverty. Puberty patients, joblesss, and disabled persons are required to be committed to a decent living. Products that are sufficient for basic needs, even at times with small amounts of oil. When life's necessities are necessary, the cost of medication and medical care is absolutely minimal. $129,000, without expenses, and $350,000. It's what's supposed to be and what's supposed to be. People first, then all the other stuff, tell the crowd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u17	Mr. President. During this epidemic, word has often been said, how vital it is to listen to experts, and to leave matters in their hands. However, this is not true in all cases and in all diseases because, as you know, just before the New Year's season, the cancer community is taking on projects that are related to the screening of women's breasts and cervical tests without real intervention for those who should take over. This was to be inserted into the Land Hospital without notice, but in time the operation was taken to Denmark. Women have not wanted to do this, and in two weeks, after a statement made by one oncology expert recently, more than 12,000 people have joined a subterranean organization or a group of women's health groups. The experiences on this site describe the fears, insecurity, and concern of women and how many of them have had to wait for weeks for the decision they made, which is completely intolerable. One expert after another has appeared saying that such knowledge and activity are unacceptable. If people are still talking about listening to experts, I think now would be a good time for the highest level. Health Minister to break off the point of his manic activity and to scan for breast scans and screens for cervical cancer samples back to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u18	V.E.G. President. This time, an adult Icelander's well - being has been discussed in 2020 by a new surgeon. It is sobering to note that the present state of spiritual health is the worst among young women. Still, the situation is not all bad, but it is important to examine and study these statistics. In 2018, 75% of women reported their spiritual health good or very good. But in 2020, as this combination is about, the ratio was down to 70%. It also says that geologist monitoring has repeatedly shown that more women than before often report much stress in daily life. In 2020 this ratio was close to 30%. This can also be seen much by age, but only 6% of the women are in the oldest group, or 65 years of age and older, who report as long as there were 40% in the youngest, i.e. women aged 18 to 24. You can continue to analyze the source of numbers. There is an increase in loneliness in young people. Sure, Covid-19 plays in as a cause, but we need to be aware of the potential consequences. I call attention to this today, since we have repeatedly called for access to mental - health services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u19	Mr. President. I'd like to step in with this team's Department of Health for the Southnes. Sadly, the structure of the Agency has not been in harmony with the pressures it faces. They simply need funds, job positions, and other staff so that the services required can be performed. The Southnesia National Acute Convention is the country's second - ever welcomer of patients after the emergency department in Fos Soil. Thus, it is considerably larger than the emergency room in Akureyri. More and more Southnes turn to health care in the capital area by means of health care, where doctors can often receive time, even on the same day. Not long ago, I requested phone calls from a doctor at the Southnesian Institute of Health. In ten days, I was able to have the time. Healthcare professionals tell me that no matter what organization we compare with here and abroad, the Southnesian Health Organization is simply too neglectful to care for the large numbers of Southnes, the Cheflavor airport passengers, and especially the growing number of inmates who live in the area and also need health - care. I don't doubt that Southnesian staff are trying to do what they can to help anyone who comes to them with the best possible skills. But now, serious medical events have taken place and are awaiting this investigation. Southnes are concerned about the development of the matter. Health authorities, especially health ministers, have the responsibility to enable all institutions to carry out their roles and perform good service, as the law says. It is long time, Mr. President, to promote Southnes National Institutes, and the lack of communication between governments against the Southnes must cease.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u20	Mr. President. Jónas Hallgrímsson, naturalist and poet, once wrote a letter to his acquaintance: Natural science is the most pleasant of all sciences. How true those words are, and we Americans have been blessed with the privilege of learning about them in recent times! We've been taking daily educational courses on Iceland's nature and the laws in the heart of the world here in Iceland, both on interesting television programs and on some sort of instant-time activity in the middle of the night. When I walked in here earlier, I heard two senators talking just about Iceland's geology, and I heard they'd been past 1180 - and they're still standing out there. So we're all growing up to be a little bit of a geology expert, me and Icelanders, which is good. How important it is for us to know nature and its laws! That's what concerns our lives and benefits in this country. This afternoon's program will be held on a matter of utmost importance and with regard to a method developed in Iceland, has been called Carbiffx, and will hopefully be the means of upholding the name of the Icelandic knowledge of the future. It will be with great joy that, for my part, I will participate in the release of that matter and at least, in time, I can say that I have not been in the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u21	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice on the release of sensitive personal information in the courts. The request reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. How will a minister react to the release of sensitive personal information in the courts? 2. What will the Minister do about the processing and distribution of enterprises on sensitive personal information that has been published in the courts? The fact is, the courts of the country's personal protection laws have been to publish information that is unique, in opposition to laws, on their websites, and even if it is later corrected, a company in the country will take up at least two things I know of, the judgments, and continue to operate the information and sell access to them. Why it matters. This is significant because attending their rights is the fundamental right of the public. But if people are afraid of coming to court - take an example of a person who is released from a violent relationship and wants the police to be hurt. It is a court of law, and it contains information that the violent man used against the person in order to keep him involved in the violent relationship. They are officially released into court, and they enter a private court office that sells access to it. These frighten people from taking advantage of their basic rights, from taking their rights to court. That's why it matters. More than that, people simply have the right to their own private life, except to politicians, which is another story. This is the question, on the other hand, what the Minister of Justice intends to do regarding the publication of personal information in the courts and if private companies are continuing to cooperate with them. V.E.G. On November 25, last year, 2019, the Minister of Justice answered my request by permission of the president: If personal information in court and other activities violates the laws of personal protection, the secretary will take a serious look. It's been one year and two, three months. What will a minister do to react to the release of sensitive personal information in the judgment and processing of the private parts of that sensitive and personal details?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is only right to briefly acknowledge the rule of the execution of judgments. Is It Wrong to Tell Them? No. 50/2016, issue of the Supreme Court, National Court, and District Court. It shows that they should be given along with appropriate solutions, and the same procedure applies to the Court's judgment. The information on private, financial, or commercial interests of individuals should be taken away at the launch of court decisions as well as the information on the security of the state and the defence, which is normal to be secreted. Regarding the publication of the district courts, the Court oversees the publication of the courts. That is what 2 mg says. Thirty-eight. the law of the courts in private affairs of sensitive personal matters, such as legislation, incest, genetics, custody of children, and association with them, should not be published. In case of special considerations, you should also keep anonymous names in private cases. When the names are kept secret, other items should also be removed from the court, which may be related to the party or to others. This is stated in 6 mg. 7. Court of the courts that the Court's administration establishes regulations on the release of judicial decisions and the ruling of local courts. It was a requirement to take the initiative of the then minister of justice. The Court's office has established regulations on the release of judgments and judgments on the judicial site, no. 3/209, which makes it clear that the release of judicial solutions should be directed to shed light on the activities of the courts and provide access to information on the court's work. Each court is responsible for the publication of judicial solutions in accordance with regulations and laws in force. For some time, there has been much and a need for discussion about the release of judgments online. In June 2018, for example, a meeting of various parties discussed the release of judgments and e.g. Children's protection and immunity. In November 2018, a court court hearing was held that discussed the purpose of the releases on the Internet. Also, in October 2018, a bill from the then Justice Minister was presented as an attempt to cope with criticism. That bill received different envelopes, and it was thought to prevent the democratic role of the media, which was shown in the criticism of the media on that subject. The bill was not submitted to the General Assembly, but it was presented a bill in which the Court's Court was commissioned to establish consistent rules. They have been in effect for some time, and the Ministry has carefully monitored their effectiveness and if this is sufficient or if further improvement is needed. The Ministry has had regular meetings with the chairman and director of the Court to discuss the release of judgments, regulations, and better conduct and the next steps to take in the task of presenting judgments, as well as the protection of human rights for personal protection. The Ministry sent the Court's last words at the end of November asking for information about the effect of the regulations on the release of judgments, to what actions the Court's administration would have taken to ensure the publication of judgments is in accordance with the rules and what court officials were willing to do in order to ensure that it was. According to the Court of the Court, there has been an important change that has been beneficial and includes a coordinated release of the courts at all courts and has also been investigated by the Court's Court for the actions of all courts on the release of judgments, as well as the appointing of a member of the Court of Justice as the personal guardian of all the courts and the Court of the Court, in accordance with the laws of the Person Protection Act. His role, then, is to observe in keeping with the rules and to assist partners in following them laws and regulations. The Court has also set up an action procedure in case of an important security failure, which is also important, and the notifications to be sent when there is any interference with personal protection, and in action, courts have also reported those who publish a court order on their websites if they are reimbursed due to a lack of security. - And that's the second question here. - But this process has been introduced to the heads of the courts, and it has moved the Björg Thorarensen Court to keep educational testimony on the publication of judgments and personal protection for those heads of staff to increase discussions and awareness of the rules, the practical procedures and the importance of personal protection at the publication of judgments. It should also be noted that the Court's office has put on their website a form for those who wish their names to be removed from the courts one year after its publication, as is permitted in the rules. It should then increase the bioavailability of the party and make it visible and accessible to them. Of course, I give high priority to the fact that there is a good time for judicial hearings. I believe we're going to have to be careful about public and media access, but especially the right to protect personal information. However, an important point of view is not simple, as has been seen every time you talk about it, and there is always something you can do to improve. But I believe that the rules on the courts and the post-requisitions and the procedure have been provided for improvement. However, there is always a need to monitor how they are treated, to instruct judges on their existence, and the importance of responding quickly if things go wrong. Maybe I'll come into it a little bit later in my later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this inquiry. After I arrived at the council, I was told that I was being sold information about me, personal information, health information, in law documents. All I had done was break the law of traffic, and I suffered physical damage. The information being sold contained medical information. And what may have been the unusual thing about it all was that it also contained wrong health information that had not been stated to be corrected. This tells us that it is a serious matter that people can be shopped for health information or other personal information, unsupervised, without anyone making a comment about it, that it is still being done. I pointed this out here in the beginning, soon after I arrived at the council, and I've redirected it to the Minister of Justice, but there seems nothing to be done about it. That's why I hope now that it doesn't have to be discussed anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u24	President. You see, this is what's being done by personal information, that's what's done by private companies. And the highest. Minister of Justice will introduce it in her second answer to what she has done or plans to do in the processing and distribution of companies of sensitive personal information published in judgment, even removed from court, but not there because they remain and work with them and are sold. Medical information, for example. Personal protection determined that personal information needed to be eliminated in one matter. But what about all the other issues if there are sensitive health and personal information about people? If people have an accident, like a what? However, a senator who was hit must provide medical information. Two doctors argue, and they can find their way into judgment. But like the highest. The Minister of Justice mentions the courts and the courts taking over this case, and we've been following it since I entered the council. If I've put a lot of focus on it, and the citizens have been telling me about these offenses, and we've often got the county to meet us. Now it seems to be looking for a better start, especially from February 12. Then a representative of the court came and spoke of the personal guardianship. So I refer to the public: If there are any judgments in which you think it is being violated by the laws of personal protection against you, then under the law of the P.A. inside the court that you have a right to contact, and he has to refer it to judges and those who make judicial decisions that it is removed. We're there. We also need to examine how we limit the reality of the event, but we are at least there. This will be the time for what is fully on top of it. The Minister of Justice and the Board of Justice is to monitor the implementation of the personal protection laws so that private citizens are not continuing to shop with sensitive personal details about the citizens of the country. What's your chief plan? A minister will do so at all these times, and now about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u25	A respectable president. I tried to review all the major changes and improvements and the follow-up we've had with these changes, but, of course, I need to consider how to improve further and discuss some suggestions there, for example. Whether to show the judgment of the province which is not appealed on the Internet, and to have access in other ways. They need to be careful about how judicial matters are handled in general and of those involved, including those involved in judicial matters. In the media, and often, as we have seen, there are sensitive issues to consider, as the examples prove. It will not be seen that in the smaller districts of the districts, a display of identity protection at release can be a challenge, since everyone is aware of the issues involved. Of course, there is a challenge in a small community and perhaps another challenge we encounter here and elsewhere, and there is something to keep in mind about continued improvements in this area. As shown in my answer to what? In the past, Persian protection has been viewed as the Supreme Court, in a certain case, as the court of responsible for the processing of personal information that is in the publication of the published court's sentences. And in the case of companies such as Fool Juris, who also publish court reviews, the company does not personally consider the company to be a responsible candidate for the processing of their identity information, which is considered to be a responsible candidate for the processing of the identity information involved in making judgments of the Supreme Court and other courts that have been published, available by granting access to them. However, it does not depend on the responsibilities of the Minister of Justice to monitor public information, such as reviews, but my responsibilities apply to the activities of the Court and the judicial committee work to improve the work programme and deliver the information to the companies. It is both rule and instruction, but it has also been met with the fact that non - court decisions are published. In such cases, there is a need to report a security problem at the time of the release of reviews, and these persons have responded to such announcements and corrected according to court correction after this procedure has been implemented. I simply believe that it is important that the citizens be able to approach the courts with their own concerns, confident that their practices will be careful and legitimate, and that they will continue to work for me and my Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u26	Mr. President. This isn't the first time and probably not the last thing I'm talking about moving on to the Grinch. I think I did it at some point every year since my first entry into the council. I have three questions I'd like to ask a minister. They are because, in fact, winter conditions and winters have been too bad and in a way that has repeatedly been closed because of inability, avalanche, and danger of avalanches. The inhabitants of the mountainous region have had to live with what is totally unacceptable. We know exactly that the nature of the case was done, e.g. From the mountainlands to the unsolved conditions of our lives, they were much better, and of course they linked the areas together. There has been a huge attendance for tourism in the mountainous region. On the other hand, we also know that they are bottlenecks on the other side. On the other hand, a new tunnel, or whatever compensation we offer to be made, is something that also needs to be looked at. As I said, avalanches are blocking or risking them to prevent people from creating one business area, to create one travel area, or just to get medical care and one such thing. As a result, I wondered, " Is it best to have a new river road to Sigurfjörður, outside that it would shorten the distance between Eyjafjörður and Skamotland, trusting in the river and, of course, the larger security of road users? ' All I can remember is that the funeral was a bit much when I was little and it's just increased and the area's grown. Our friends the Faeroe Islands, who have dug around 20 tunnels, a total of 35 miles [55 km], can be seen. It's about Seven times as far as we've dug on every population. We're here with 12 tunnels, if I know right, which are about 50 miles. There, the policy is always to dig tunnels at any given time. Entries dug a tunnel for 15 people, so it was not only about practicality but also about equality. I think it's something we need to keep in mind too. We cannot wait for decades for improvement in rural transport. So I ask, because I know that a group of local people and our representatives in the North-eastHR have begun their work and are planning to cooperate with parties, whether the Minister is not taking care of matters, and whether he believes that it is not absolutely necessary in the light of circumstances that we put reforms in more priority than the current plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u27	A respectable president. The boys' walk at Sigluddur, which was open in 1967, and the barriers in the Ólafjörður area of 1990, were assured of that time as a full - year voyage at the urban area of Sports and Olafjörður. With the opening of the Hainnaveral tunnel in 2010, there was a full - blown relationship between urban areas and the linking of Sigludland to the Eyjafjörður area. Thus, whole - wound transportation is guaranteed in the north of the Grinch. Nevertheless, various projects have been considered that could increase safety in these means. There is a danger of landlands and rocks in the box on the general population. The danger has been charted. On the Ólabulary road, the Dalavík River River River River River River River, on the Daulav River River River River River River River, in many places. Then there are both the MRI channels and the Boy Passages that are narrow and technically out - of - date. Both tunnels are built before current safety regulations in the tunnel went into effect, and this is especially true of the Boy tunnel. Various projects or measures have been considered to improve the safety of transport on Seaways and Olafurfjords. In the part "Sigleyards " around the public, groundwaters have been observed in a section about six miles [6 km] long, extending from the roadside to the public's path. Three rocks have been packed. The road has been measured and monitored in road areas in the general population since 1982. It has caused annual damage to the soil and is thought to be a potential risk to creep or even to collapse. Therefore, it is important to be able to warn road users in time. In 2017 an attempt with an alarm was made that did not work well enough. Now new suggestions are being made, along with planning the response plans, when closing the road is considered necessary, and what equipment is needed. A transport program in 2017 and 2018 provided funding for research on geographs and rivers, completing them in 2019 C.E. A report was published in March 2020, where tunnels from the River were proposed to the Valley of Hildal in Sigludar. The tunnel has been referred to as a sailing tunnel. That tunnel would be about 5 miles [5.2 km] long and would shorten the Sports Road about 12 miles [4 km]. They would replace a difficult chapter from the Rivers with a boy tunnel that is snowing and betting, and it would no longer have to travel through terrestrial land in the public or Boy tunnel. Strategies on Ólafjörður were opened in 1990. They're three miles long, one-footed, but with turnoffs. In recent years, traffic through the tunnel has increased dramatically. The average trip in 2019 was 678 cars a day, and the average trip in summer was about 1,000 vehicles a day in the same year. Today, there are significant inconveniences and delays in summer because of heavy traffic. A traffic control system has been developed that can be used under high traffic conditions, including traffic conditions. by stopping the largest cars that can't reach out, as well as reducing the chances of the largest cars being hit by regular cars. Improvements in policy measures for the Ólafsjoins between Dalvik and Ólafjörður were outlined in a 2012 report. The conclusion in that report was that it was possible to cremate the MRI tunnel as well as further improvements in avalanche defenses in the road. There were also applications of a new 8.5 - mile [8.5 km] of tunnel from Charleakur to Ólafjörður. By means of a new and longer tunnel, safety is considered to be better protected than it is twice as expensive as the addition to the Munchhole. The road design recommends extending the tunnel but also careful monitoring of traffic and delays. The path to the river and to the seabeds are an important target, both because of possible stone crash on the road, especially in the Moriscos, but also because of the risk of land in the general population. This section is being followed daily and more frequently if it is raining, thus increasing the risk of collapse. This year, there is an expected new monitoring and response schedule for this area that will be defined as three points; an alarm level, a danger level, and an emergency level. It is also important to guard against avalanches on the Ólafsjords between Dalvík and Ólafjörður. This aims to make radio broadcasts possible in every tunnel. As to when a new tunnel is coming, the transport program 2020 2020234 is expected to be the second tunnel in line to Fjords, along with Sufjörður and Moefjörður. The work is now being done to provide a complete analysis of soil conditions that will provide a basis for further priorities, including the requested projects. It is important that terrestrial activities are planned, and the population can see where the construction is in line. The advantages I considered above are the advantages that have been identified and discussed. I welcome any ideas that can improve transportation, living conditions, and the quality of life of Iceland. In addition, any choice must be made to make. As we know, that is the decision of the Generals. It has been suggested that a single type, at least, is always being carried on at any given time. I think it would be good to consider the possibility that more than one tunnel could be dug at a future time in a manner similar to that of our distant cousins. A senator mentioned in his opening words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u28	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. We have heard of regular winters, and especially in the past, that transport to the Mountain Lands is cut off because of the weather, especially because of avalanche danger. This is very important in the context that we look for ways that we want everyone to live under certain conditions when it comes to transportation, but we also have to face the need to set priorities, and it depends a little bit on the future when people decide which way they want to go. Do people want to head west or east, into the Eyjafjordy and to Akureyri and there in connection with international airports? People should be realistic about what is being said. I think it's highly unlikely that men will go both ways at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u29	Mr. President. I rejoice over this discussion and not only the words but also the words. Foreman and chief. Minister. In general about the Grinch, of course, a plan has to be made for the tunnels being discussed and for others who, of course, need to get to the stage, a tunnel plan. It is mentioned in the Environmental and Transport Committee's Committee on Transport and is very important for both priorities and costs and other measures. I simply suggest, because there is one of the best investments that could be made, to consider borrowing the state for perhaps ten funerals so that it would actually be possible to achieve it at the most fast possible to win a tunnel in Iceland, so it would be in good shape by 2030 or 2040.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. Foreman and chief. Minister for the answers and for the subject. This is an important assignment in the north. I remember as far as I can remember when Olafur's Wall was cleared up and that's where the road was connected, and we obviously know the developments. But there are a number of assignments and responsibilities that need to be done and the highest. A minister has entered a land tunnel program. We've run out of animal tunnels, but we haven't started new projects waiting. When does the top count? Minister that we can expect a funeral plan to be clear? If I look west on the fjords, there's at least one of them. Five projects, big and great, Great Valley and Half Dead come to mind, and then the hard part between Eelfafjörður and Sluggar Clan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u31	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and for the individuals involved here. I want to say at the short time I have here that it is true that one thing and another have been done to try to increase control, e.g. In the Marble tunnel and the like, but it's not enough. I think that going to break the tunnel is almost impregnable. Where are you going to drive while changing? On the one hand, it does not solve the problem facing us, which is the mule himself. I also have from the roadmakers who agree that this is where we share what ends most of our winter service, what has been going on with us in the last two winters, primarily the avalanches. Of course, much heavy transport is correct, so many things have changed and are moving up on the roads from the sea. I'd also like to mention that when there's been an accident in the Oxnadal Temple, the traffic has been directed to the Olafsland through the Mountains and south, so both roads have to be solved. I quoted our cousins back then, and they've been financing some way through road construction, and I think it's a point we're supposed to consider. There were big words when the Cradle tunnel started, but we might say that they were well received when they finally got into effect despite having to pay for them to own one area of employment. I agree that, of course, we have hospitals and international airports on one side, but both tunnels are extremely important to link the huge area of the Grinch. [[The president calls.]] I agree with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson of the fact that we are to borrow and try to put this vast amount of transport into use in most parts of the country because it is a future gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u32	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this discussion and thank you very much. The head of the group and those who participated in the discussion on the subject. What we accepted once is not enough for today, and that was shown in the foreman's inquiry over a whole wound, we simply make more demands today. That's why the demands are as good as one. A senator mentioned, on the West and, indeed, around the country, on tunnels, and it is his goal to decide that there is always at least Work on one tunnel at a time. It's more than we've ever had. It is true that now one or two years of waiting from the end of an animal tunnel to the start of the next tunnel, there is no barrier. Therefore, on the basis of the transport program, I had assigned the Road program to begin with a projection that would then be more extensive than the previous transport program, where there was little time for preparation. It's working very well, and I hope we can get some information on it, including it. to the council and to discuss here where there are many more options to be torn up, and it is time for the council to set the priorities for funerals. Looking from the Faeroe Islands, of course, well considered in my mind, is that it puts some of its own money in order to reduce the cost in the first place, and most important of it is the financial cost. Of course, taking a loan at this time is beneficial, but do not forget that it has to be paid back, and nothing is free of charge. But I am absolutely willing to examine any ideas involved in making more tunnels in Iceland because the advantage of improving the safety of funerals is so much higher than going mountain roads. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Education and cultural minister for coming here to see me and responding to a request on Icelandic education for immigrants and adult or after-school education. Unemployment in this country is now the largest in the North countries, the first time in the last decades, and probably the first time in history. More than 20,000 people are unemployed, 40% of whom are of foreign origin. They lose their jobs first and high in 40,000 foreign citizens have been in the labour market here in the country for the past few years and realize that their ratio in this regard is high. There is a great need for resources for jobseekers of foreign origin, whether it is an Icelandic, Icelandic, or professional learning - related way of life that does not require unemployment. Most of the evidence indicates that we have not made a strong account of these important matters, and it has been reported that the use of Icelandic education for foreigners has been in financial use for a long time. The increase in donations to these factors has not been achieved and has remained unchanged in class and student hours for a long time. Does this really reflect the emphasis of the minister of this case? We have heard reports of the need to promote Icelandic education for foreign citizens who stay and want to work and live. We do not have to revise details on this road, e.g. about the cost to participants? It's a threshold, isn't it? That's 45,000. for each course for foreigners. Is that not a direct obstacle? The cost is also 25,000. to the person who wants to get an Icelandic citizen's rights and pick up Icelandic courses to meet demands. In many places, there is a shortage of specialized professionals in Icelandic employment, or such, and violations regarding recognition of the degree of test, rights, and skills of immigrants. Indeed, the evaluation is one of the ways in which you can improve it. This, however, requires effort, organization, and expense, e.g. interpretability and follow-up. What will a minister do to make matters right? Today, our promises and goals cannot be defined. The situation needs to be taken care of, so rapid work is needed. We've got the infrastructure ready. The education program, adult education, and the ever - growing educational centers throughout the country are prepared, what is lacking in a secretary's failure, and what is done to show by his actions that he means what he suggests in words and against a clear course. Will a minister take advantage of it and provide the necessary media?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. To begin with, a senator for raising this important issue, since it is quite clear that the Dutch Icelandic program is socially important. As a minister, I have put great emphasis on promoting Icelandic studies and strengthening the position of students with a native language other than Icelandic at any level of school. The goal is to make it easier for those with other language languages to share in the community and give them the opportunity to make use of their skills in learning and working. It's a matter of time. The senator turns to Icelandic education for adult immigrants and whether I intend to use myself to promote Icelandic education. Then I'd like to review what the government has been doing at that last class, and there's special financial resources and how we have advanced the education system at all levels. During the summer of 2020, donations were increased to high school and university to offer summer studies for students and the public to cope with the negative consequences of unemployment during a pandemic. Summer education and summer work were offered, and the Ministers of Education and Social Affairs were served together to promote a variety of activities, including through a work-and-enforcement team. The team is aimed at integrating measures and providing suggestions to ensure efficacy and that students and jobseekers can start a new era of uncertainty in order to improve their education and further into new jobs. The summer school participation was very good. The total number of participants was 4,913 of whom attended 800 foreign - city Icelandic courses. As you can see from these numbers, our participation is great, and I'm very proud that we've started with this. There were 260 courses. At that time, the Ministry gave considerable money for summer studies in ten high schools or less than 100 million and enrolled 650 students in 64 courses. It was not only for immigrants but also for Icelandic concomitant work-related preparatory studies and is developing it further in terms of the development of immigrants or children with a native language that is predominantly in the Icelandic language and who are receiving job-related language support. So, as shown in my case for school, there is a big fermentation in Icelandic education for immigrants and support them through increased donations. Here is an opportunity to apply for strength and encouragement to promote Icelandic education and cooperation across the Ministry in order to support better coordination and increased study opportunities. As you can see, as I mentioned, some 700 immigrants attended the Icelandic university. There's something else I'd like to say, a respectable president. Within the hard work study, schools for long - term jobseekers have been encouraged to offer study that is suitable for adults and with special emphasis on Icelandic language. Many schools have responded to and conducted Icelandic studies with English - language students. The schools offer milestones for beginners and more advanced language, especially for jobseekers. For example, Breiðholti's High School of the Railway, the University of the Moon and the Southside Railway School for Training, especially for adults. Then the Technical School of Technology has enjoyed eschatological popularity and no other demand. Other schools have expressed interest in adapting their courses to the first steps of the Icelandic learning frame better than in English. Then, at Bifrost, the University of Bifrost set up pre - school training for English - speaking preparation for college, and Keili has been set up in the same way. In this way, it has been tried to meet a large group of non - English - language people who are being struck at the time of the crown virus. [[The president calls.]] Like what? A senator has made significant investments in this category of languages, the government and the Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u35	Mr. President. That was an important question. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson were on the rise. Thank you very much. Secretary of education for the answer and reviewing that as high as possible. The government is doing when it comes to presenting Icelandic education for immigrants in our community. I think that's a very important thing because that's the way people of foreign origin have the same opportunities as the rest of the community. I'd like to break the top. A minister in searching this out when this experience becomes better, see what's going well, and where may some change be needed, and introduce it to us here at the council as well as in the community because I think it's a call in the community that we welcome back people who come here to work and we want to keep it in order. I'm happy for this, and we're going to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I thought it was the highest. Ministers prove to be historical skates lightly over important things. I didn't think it was part of the ever - increasing education center, the adult education, or the after - education program. These are institutions that, in spite of their limited stability and long - term work of important jobs under uncertain conditions, raise abrasions, and demonstrate adaptability and rapid response time, as in the present circumstances. We often call it the fifth education. Does a minister not agree? Follow-up education can provide a number of important elements related to education and an increase in this level of education, the challenges of jobs due to technological change, mobilization, Icelandic training, the structure of skills in the Icelandic labour market, and the closer one; the need for jobseekers. The lungs from the previous year were a time of great transition, and they drew the strength of the secondary education, which was able to adapt the tasks to the current needs of very short periods of time. It has been a support system that has the goal of being a force to work, including some of them. against the negative social consequences of unemployment and increasing the level of education. It is very uncertain and has been delayed in establishing a new higher education code. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is this work entirely low? That's a bit of a worry. What is involved in this educational program and the role of higher education in this regard? Is that clearly the case? At this point, it does not seem quite clear whether the after - school role is actually in it. Is this clear in your mind? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u37	A respectable president. Of course, we stress study for the rest of our lives. In education, this aspect is specifically discussed, and I'm shocked. A senator to learn a little more. Maybe we should sit down and I'll go over it better if I answer it here as I have been requested. A respectable president. I would like to mention that, of course, the demand for further education has increased substantially. One of the things we're doing right now in the Ministry is sponsoring the entire framework and giving money to this important group of subjects. One thing we see is that is happening right now, and I want to draw special attention to it, is that some factors will help us to focus even more on this category, and the education course is part of it, and that is, of course, we see self - efficiency, and we see that our jobs are changing very much. That's why this government's been attacking a major system change of education to make sure that it's a good access, and people can look for new tools. We've got a further operation on our lives over the next few days on how we're going to strengthen our education system further. Like what? Of course, a senator sees that we are adding more money to it. The colleges, the universities, and the reeducation centres have never received so many students who are willing to look for new tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u38	Mr. President. The one I asked for was the highest. A minister and is here for an oral response and a discussion with this approach: In view of the fact that students are allowed to go to companies outside the school to learn about machines and equipment that the school does not have to control without the recruitment relationship between the student and the company, how does a minister best conduct insurance protection in such circumstances? As noted in the inquiry, part of the study is conducted in some trades that are taught in high school so that students go to the workplace in the relevant field, including the field. to access machines and machines that the schools do not have. I don't think it's clear that this is a lot of training for the students and fun and an important part of the class. I'd like to see that it would stay this way. However, the suggestion for the inquiry is that I was brought up by an example in which a technical executive was concerned about what might happen in the event of an accident. There was an incident in which the company had complex, efficient machines. In a short while, the company had been able to buy extra insurance from its insurance company on account of these visits, but now they answered that insurance companies are not allowed to guarantee insurance for anyone other than those who are involved with the company. When asked for it, the student's home insurance policy determined his insurance protection. However, I don't know if such an accident would cover it with simple family insurance. This is important to me. A minister of education because I think we agree that it is important that students be able to go to the workplace and get in touch with those who are working at the trade, but of course insurance has to be okay. Although no one wants to see an accident or an accident, we do know that it is possible. So I would like to ask a minister if she agrees with me in that this is where we need to see that there is no uncertainty about the students.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, it is very important not to have a state of uncertainty. It is so that industrial students in legitimate industry students who study health and science and university students are subject to accidental injury when conducting a practical study, according to the b-joint 7. Social Security Act, No. 45/2015. During this season, we have been strengthening the support of industrial education wherever we can reach it. One of the things that we've recently completed is a workforce, where we offer the option of not getting students on the contract, it's the school's duty to make sure that they get on the deal. So it is just the same with book study and study, that once a student has chosen a study, he will make sure that he can complete the study. We're also taking a closer look at insurance and rights about the school route. But just to answer it. Then a senator is the law that applies to the accident insurance insurance about students.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It's good to hear that a minister is in charge of a law that's supposed to ensure that students are insuranceable. However, in view of the tip I received, I think it's very important to investigate it further. It seems that neither the companies nor the schools are sure that this will cover all the conditions in which trade students are in, and especially not when it is about visiting at the workplace where students are not on the contract or in such a relationship with the workplace. I think there's a lot of room to go over here. The information I have is that my schools guide students to home insurance. If so, it must be because they believe that insurance protection is not enough. But as I said in the inquiry, it is important for the students to go to the workplace and get to know the tools and tools. I believe, however, that there is a greater need for insurance protection, since it does not cover all the schools offer and let their students try.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u41	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A senator's concern is that there is no doubt about security. That, of course, matters to us in the Ministry. I accept these indications of an uncertain state, but I refer to the law and how this one is conducted there. In connection with all the training and practical study, I feel very urgent, like the driving force. A senator, that safety is guaranteed in the school working environment, in the student's working environment. So I agree with what. A senator says we'll just look at it further. Of course, we'll take it to heart, and thank you. A senator for bringing this up. We feel that the growth in industry and everything related to it has been growing dramatically, and I feel a deep interest in it. We've been welcoming thousands of new students into the school system. It is clear that all the evidence and all that are related to it need to be safe and sound and not to have any uncertainty about it. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u42	A respectable president. I'm gonna ask you a question to the highest level. Healthcare Minister on cancer screening. I asked for a written answer to the highest degree. A health minister at the 150th legislation and received detailed and satisfying answers, where I was primarily asking whether a minister is happy to have his decision to submit the tests for cervical and breast cancer from the CCR to the State. Other questions were raised, and I want to use this opportunity and thank you for the detailed answers there. It is safe to say that the change that has been done in the cancerski system has caused quite a stir, and the news coverage can conclude that this is some kind of mess, but I would rather have this conversation here at the highest level. Minister on that, i.e. What the hell. A minister envisions the future of this vital part, which is the cancer skin, and how it would be best for him to do so. My request to the highest. Minister is: ▪ What is the position of a minister on the proposed screening council to increase the age of women declared in breast screening from 40 years to 50 years? Now I know that the highest. A minister has deferred the decision, but I believe that this is a reason for us to discuss it for the future, since we realize that, and that everyone can read about it in proposals from the screening council, that this is their suggestion, and therefore they have certain reasons. Nevertheless, I have to reason on it that I believed that women should have an opportunity for breast screening from their 30's, even though it may be more important to preach to women from 50 years of age. Also, I ask: ▪ How do proposals of the screening guide compare with such screening in other parts of the North countries? What countries are or have been listed as models for cancer screening? How has Iceland been released in comparison so far? A respectable president. Although I specifically ask about the breasts, I'm actually talking about cancer screens in general. I think it's fine this March of the month, where we celebrate mattums, which alone says for everyone and for all, that we also discuss the importance of the screening for colorectal cancer. Then I would like to remind you that on March 17, 2017, this hall was adopted as the former council proposal. paritaprevir Hjartardóttir and other council members submitted, which had often been proposed and then asked, as agreed by health and insurance ministers at that time, in agreement with the surgeon general to initiate the screening for colon and rectal cancer. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How is that important screening achieved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u43	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Buttrade Haraldsdóttir has directed to me a verbal request for cancer screening. First, the senator asks me, " What is my position on the basis of a program of screening for raising the age of women who are called breast screening from 40 years to 50 years? ' As mentioned in the case of what? In fact, I have accepted the proposal and opinion of a surgeon of the size and techniques of cancerskis, including masquerade. A surgeon's proposal is based on the opinion and professional advice made by a surgeon based on the results of a study of international and European testing guidelines, the suggestions for screening procedures are consistent with those in Europe and in the North. However, in view of the debate that arose due to the proposal of the surgeon and the opinion of the screening Council to increase the lower female age in breast screening for 50 years and since there was insufficient evidence for change in public, and the discussion was not mature enough, I decided to postpone the proposed changes in the female age range of breast screening for an unscheduled period of time before the changes have been fully presented and community discussion about them has been carried out. So at this point there will be an unsatisfactory arrangement at this end of the age, so to speak, i.e. (b) What questions will be considered in the next issue of this magazine? (c) What will be considered in the next article? From 40◯49 years of age, however, a surgeon and a screening guide for women aged 69 in 40◯74 years will be proposed as being added, so now they are screened for women of 40 to 74 years of age. This has not been shown in my case before, but I believe that it is the right to make a decision to postpone a particular time, which so far has only been said of an indefinite period of time. It could be two years. I think it matters for everyone who is involved in the discussion, whether it is the institutions that have the project or those women who enjoy the ministry, to support themselves at some point in which the change occurs, not that the decision will be on the loose. How do the proposals of a screening guide compare with those in other parts of the North countries? My answer is that Sweden and Iceland are one of the northern countries that begin their so - called legendary masquerade at 40 years of age. The northern nations, Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Faeroe Islands begin screening at 50 years of age. Most countries in Europe, as well as in the United States and Canada, begin an organized breast screening at 50 years of age. The European Union aims at 45 years of age in its guidance. This country has been compared to 40 years in recent years, although a surgeon's instructions have been provided in 2016 to cover the age of 50. Hv. A senator asks: "What countries are or have been considered worthy of imitation when it comes to cancer screening and how Iceland has been published in comparison to this date? " Therefore, to ensure safety and assess the effectiveness of this organized population based on a major and important part of the prevention and prevention of cancer screening, it is necessary to follow the guidelines based on benefit-effective medical practice at all times. Iceland has looked primarily at the rest of the Northern and European countries for cancer purposes and has used European guidelines, but Europe has provided guidelines for cervical cancer screening and breast cancer screening. Most European nations base their counsel on this, and many experts have done so. A general examination of asymptomatic individuals is important, and the objective of such screening is to identify possible early disease and to refer to a closer examination. It is possible to detect early cancer and remove it slowly and improve survival. The incidence of breast cancer in Iceland has been around 90 per 100,000 women in the past year, with mortality rate of 15 per 100,000 women. From the time of screening for breast cancer, the incidence of breast cancer has increased but at the same time mortality has been reduced. Compared with the other northern countries, Iceland has a lower incidence than Denmark and Finland, but higher than Sweden and Norway. Good participation in screening is essential for success. In the United States, there have been some 60% breast screening women involved in breast screening, which is considerably below the European guidelines for which 70% is acceptable, while 75% is the target. In Denmark, the Netherlands and Britain, participation has been around 75% and in Finland 81%. One of the primary objectives of transporting and responsible for the breast and cervical systems is to expand, as well as reduce the cost to the patient or to the person's pocket. For subsequent colonic screening for colon cancer, this is being done in preparation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u44	Mr. President. In fact, the fact that we are being screened here emphasizes the importance of health care prevention and the responsibility for certain aspects of screening carried to health care also emphasizes that there is basic health care and prevention in this context. It is very important that the most participating in screening and screening activities are being carried out in this country and that the processing of the information available in the country is very important. In view of this, there is special reason to rejoice in the highest cause. Minister to the National Hospital, which appears on the Board of Directorates' website yesterday, where Minister wishes to understand in what way and whether the National Hospital has the ability and will to perform the tests discussed in society recently. This is of vital importance because we do not want to be in some lack of knowledge about these matters. Rather, we want to evaluate them from real information and thus make the wisest decisions for those who enjoy this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u45	A respectable president. Yes, I've also prepared two queries for the highest level. Minister, and has she responded quickly and clearly. Today, there is a lot of confusion about these screenings, and this leads to uncertainty. But information will eliminate uncertainty, and I'd like to encourage the highest degree. A minister to get as much information into the air as possible. I want, for example. Please note that women are unsure about how to live in the West and receive an invitation to breast screening; they cannot be informed whether or not they will be screened at that site, e.g. in Iceland, and therefore either have to wait inexorably or travel to Reykjavík for screening. This could be done only by having this information out of the year, since the country has been organized until the end of May, with absolute uncertainty such as absolute uncertainty. to see where the screens will be in some parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers, and what. members of the council are involved in the discussion. I'm gonna say the bottom line. Minister on the importance of these preemptive screening techniques for public health. The only way we can deal with health issues, which are ever more rising spending and the number of lawsuits that we all have most ambitions, is to promote human health. Since I commit cancer screening for this country, it is certainly unacceptable that this 60% number has not been obtained. Our goal must be to reach that number considerably. I'm the highest. Ministers continue to do that. I understand the importance of having good extramarital ability to screen for cancer. I think there's a lot of good in the present proposals and adjustments, but I have to admit, a respectable president, that I don't necessarily understand who makes the screening, even though the outside is with the government. It is important that the cancer is good, and it is clear who will be tested and shown. So let me mention, for example, cervical cancer. Now, women are expected to go to health care clinics that are important in our society, one of the most boring things. The woman standing here does, and women often need to consult gynecologists as well. Therefore, it should probably be possible that a woman who consults a gynecologist may also receive this service there, I understand that it is not being taken out, but it should not be paid for it somehow. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to see if it is not reasonable for the woman to decide for herself who takes the stroke from the inside of her cervix.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u47	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue that this is an outing, a cervical cancer examination, or screening, but it's still important for the gynaecologists to take these samples and be part of this net. It was a misunderstanding over a period of time, but it is perfectly clear. I'd also like to say that on the budget of this year there are 70 million people to prepare and care for equipment purchases, etc. for colon and rectal systems so that it can be started. I'd also like to tell you about what's been going on in our discussion, that the Landspians received a message from the health care of the capital area in July asking if the National Hospital could begin reading from these samples. In August, the health guard was told that the Landspians did not reach out for that assignment. Then it was time for us to find other ways, and the result was that of a dance laboratory on a world scale and read from samples for both Sweden and Dani and others. It is of utmost importance to realize that we do not expect any less of the safety requirements for Icelandic women than do women in Europe. But it has been reported in the media that individual doctors have taken the lead in the roads and in the field of Hospitals and that the National Hospital can well care for this reading. That's why I've written to Land Hospital, did it yesterday, to ask for information as to whether that situation had changed and what would take them to do. The contract with Hvidovre is for three years, voicable on three months in advance. But it is true that the Landspians were asked to examine the possibility of taking this upon themselves but failed to accept that wish, and then we had to look to women for guidance in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u48	Mr. President. Today, a total of 6,058 have been identified, and possibly there are still some, hopefully, that most people will not. The fact is, despite the fact that we will be able to vaccinate much of the nation during the year, we need to deal with the consequences of the epidemic in both long - term and long - term lives as well as with increasing numbers of people who live in chronic unemployment and problems related to it. Both are predictable and have to be prepared for our health and social systems. In an interview with Dr. Hilma Hólm of the Icelandic genetic analysis of visi.is recently found that a quarter of those infected with the crown virus during the first outbreak here still have several or great symptoms six months after the illness. Of these, about 12% have poor or very poor health. This means that among those who have been infected by more than 1,500 people today, the long - term consequences of Korean infection can be expected to be the result. damage to organs, fatigue, brain fog and pain. Thus, many individuals live in poor quality of life and, in some cases, may end up in disability, but the results seem very individual and important to monitor carefully each person. It is also true, Mr. President, that many of us also face the challenge of not understanding from employers about the possibility of being able to limit our secular work because of illness, and there is also something we need to do. Mr. President. We need to keep our arms tight of those who have been given Covid-19 and make clear processes for those who are dealing with the long-term consequences of the disease. It is not acceptable for them to have to go between institutions and doctors to get a solution to their ills. Rather, it would be best if all could search where there is knowledge and experience in coping with problems both mentally and physically. The problem continues to grow, and we need to respond promptly. Mr. President. So I want to direct a request to the highest level. Healthcare Minister on the following: ▪ Has the Ministry evaluated how many Icelanders might be dealing with long-term health problems caused by Covid-19 infection? What measures have been taken within the medical system to deal with individuals with chronic health problems caused by Covid-19 infection? Does a minister have any reason to respond in any way to ensure support for this group of individuals and to ensure that their rights are within the medical system and at work? Have you been given a clear process to ensure that these individuals are informed where to look within the medical system for help?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u49	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter has addressed to me a verbal request for a response to chronic health problems after Covid-19. First, the Senator asks: Has the Ministry assessed how many Icelanders might be dealing with chronic health problems after Covid-19 infection? This is to say that according to general studies, approximately 10% of people taking Covid-19 have symptoms for more than three weeks after the start of an infection. The chronic symptoms of Covid-19 infection may vary in severity and weight gain. Thus, in Iceland there may be over 600 of the more than 6,000 individuals who have been confirmed to be infected with some form of chronic symptoms. Since the outbreak of an epidemic, some 300 people have been hospitalized. Fortunately, at present we are still naturally in the pandemic, only a portion of those receiving Covid-19 struggles with long-term sequelae after the illness. Hv. A senator asks what actions were taken within the system. There is therefore the answer to the development of a work programme and integration of services between institutions. The National Center for Development has cooperated with Land Hospital and Rehabilitation Institutes of Smoking, the National Institute of Health in Who Type and Krisnes published instructions and organization for the management of patients with chronic symptoms by Covid-19. It's important, as shown in the case of a man. To this group, a senator offered the right service at the right stage of his service. It is being done to ensure the availability of such services. That is why during the last quarter of the year 2020, a special allowance of 200 million was set. A., should be assigned to meet the need for rehabilitation after a Covid-19 illness and to shorten the waiting period after a second rehabilitation. Iceland's health insurance was committed to making contracts for this service and then a smoke pool for rehabilitation, especially for people who have been given the Covid-19. That service is a very important part of preventing long - term health problems and the decline in quality of life. The Senator asks if there is any reason to respond in any way to support this group and ensures that their rights are within the medical system and at the labour market. The aim of the patient's rights then is to ensure patients' specific rights. The law states that all patients have the right to the most advanced medical care available at any given time. When we are in that place, while building up the ministry, we are gaining knowledge of the nature and extent of the disease, it is important to have quick hands, as it were. A senator mentions. That's why we're expanding our service to the group, depending on the prisoners and just as hard. For ensuring the rights of these individuals in the labour market it falls under the task of the social and child - care minister. Asks are whether a clear process has been set to ensure that these individuals are informed about whom they can look for help within the system. The process is and should be clear. Health care is always the first stop in the system, and that is true in these cases as well as in others. At a health level, you can find a service biopsy with an overview of national services, as well as a phone call. A health network can also be used to obtain information. Many patients will be expected to recover more effectively without any specific treatment, but the overall approach of the health care unit and teamwork organization is important in this context. Health care provides counseling and then a reference when needed for a visit to the National Hospital or Rehabilitation Institutes. A land hospital has also maintained planned surveillance and follow-up of patients who become ill by Covid-19 at the Covid parade unit and following events in other walking departments. The land hospital provides health care advice as needed, and the land hospital and health care guide patients according to their needs for rehabilitation. As a result of illness, rehabilitation at the right time can make a difference and prevent chronic health problems. Patients with severe symptoms or a multiple problem should be managed first. Hospitality follow-up after rehabilitation will then be required to arrange for hospital or health care as needed. As mentioned earlier, smokebund now has a specific rehabilitation program for those with long-term symptoms of Covid-19 infection, and already some 50 people have benefited from this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u50	Mr. President. This is the important question raised here regarding those who develop long-term symptoms of Covid-19 and how we react to it. I want to thank you very much. A health minister for her answers, and I agree that there is a tremendous need to intervene and that there is a time for rehabilitation. I'd like to use this opportunity to talk about this in a larger context. We're so lucky to live in a community that can help people who have complications of difficult conditions, not just Covid-19. Its rehabilitation is so vital that you get back into society, even if you have to live with some rank. Covid has a bit of a focus on the fact that there are people in that position. I just wanted to use this context to remind you that we can use the difficult lessons of Covid to put on a more general view of this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u51	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the answer, and I also thank you for this significant comment. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. Rehabilitation is extremely important for all treatments. I think, unfortunately, we're too inclined not to use it, not to show people that way. We need to do more, and we need to improve our rehabilitation in every way. Mr. President. The reason for this request is that I have heard a lot of stories about the experiences of individuals who are dealing with the long-term consequences of Covid-19 and that they are not receiving clear answers from the health care provider, they are not receiving sufficient support. By now the British were on their way to form specialized receptions, where a team on the health care team was taking care of individuals who have these problems. As excellent health care professionals, I do an enormous amount of work, and I don't give up talking about the importance of health care, but it doesn't change how many doctors differ. Although I believe they're all doing their best, it's true that some people seem lucky and have excellent doctors who are leading them through this while others seem to experience the rejection of their experience. That's not good. If people are not getting the right information and are not given the information, the system is not working. That's why I think it's a little important to the Ministry, and I hope a minister is good at it, considering setting up a more consistent information for these individuals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u52	A respectable president. I agree completely with what's said in the second inquiry of which. The senator, that it is important to continue informing our leading personnel, doctors, nurses and other staff, about these symptoms, to remain alert, etc. I think we need to learn as long as this goes right in front of us. It is also important to remember that the prolonged effect of Covid may be due to other than the infection itself. There is evidence to suggest that the epidemic affects different groups, including social status and other factors. The surgeon generals monitor the main health factors and monitor health status, feeling etc. There, too, we need to monitor the extent of the social effects of Covid and these large effects related to our mental well - being and including physical health. Land hospital, Icelandic genetic analysis and the Development Centre have started a study on the long-term effects of Covid-19. All patients who were diagnosed with the first wave of Covid have been offered participation in the study that is very important because it opens a window for reporting. The study of the people at the present time of Covid is a scientific study that is being investigated as well, increasing the knowledge of the epidemic, and taking in knowledge of the effects on the well-being and quality of life, etc. But we lack further insight into this indirect effect of the epidemic. New research shows that this can increase the inequities of society in long - term and short - term health. So to suggest a surgeon, I have two control groups. Second monitoring of the indirect effects of Covid-19 on human health, the second group having indirect effects on mental health. These control groups are appointed to 12 months and will hold this. They are aimed at providing a quarterly status report to enable them to respond if necessary. So I'll agree with why. A senator, it is very important to do well, stay on his toes, and learn as long as this process takes place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u53	Mr. President. However, we live in a land that has, unfortunately, been so far, that all more specialized services have been pressed together here in the southwest corner, and then in Akureyri, the state has done little to encourage others. This means that a large percentage of the people must travel long distances to attend a service that others probably consider to be available in their locality. This is especially true of all health care. The length of roads means that there are often some of the costs of attending that service, the expenses that are truly subsidized in part by the State, but there are hidden costs such as loss of employment. One factor that many parents recognize is that the time will come when children will have to be treated with dental treatment at the appropriate cost. For parents living outside the capital area, the costs for traveling are then added to the cost of the ministry. Díana Jóhannsdóttir and Sif Huld Albertsdóttir are both living at Isafjordur's house and recently pointed out this fact, which has long been a dental expert in the area. That service has been terminated, so all in the area will have to look south or north for this special service. In general, travel costs due to two travel a year are paid to seek treatment that is not available at home and where dental treatment falls. However, for some reason it is that only travel costs are paid if the person has fixed equipment, e.g. braces. This means that preparatory visits and other forms of dental treatment, such as A gum, which is also often used, is not included and does not earn the cost of travel, and may normally require more than two trips a year. On top of that, Mr. President, according to the Regulation on the payment of health-care guarantees to pay $1,435. for the travel certificate at the home physician's to get a specialist to get back paid trips from Iceland's Medical Insurance. Then, too, the SI 1500 must be paid. For each trip you apply for reimbursement. Therefore, a person in the country needs to seek medical care elsewhere to pay 2,935 bucks. which can simply be called a national tax. I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: What is the reason why travel costs are not paid for by individuals for the premeditation? Would a minister consider reviewing the Regulation in such a way that those who need to seek out extracurricular services are paid the cost of travel, also due to premeditation? According to Ministers, it is normal for individuals who have to be treated outside the home to pay 2,935 bucks. Another way to get reimbursement from health insurance for travel costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u54	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter has directed to me another oral request for travel costs for dental treatment. First, she asks, " What is the reason why travel costs are not paid for by individuals for all kinds of dental dishes? ' The answer is that the reimbursement of the travel costs of health care applies rules as specified in the travel costs directive. One of the basic conditions of the right to pay travel costs under the directive is that health insurance is involved in the cost of therapy. It's not a credit factor on the health insurance part of the dental treatments. If dental treatment starts e.g. After the age of 21 and not falling under the Regulation, the right to pay the travel costs is not due. Medical insurance is involved in the specific cost of dental treatment, which depends on the severity of the problem, such as what it takes. A senator knows, and reimbursed is the cost of two transfers for dental treatment, but it is also paid to travel because of the most serious cases. The health insurance check-in is in constant opinion, and I'd like to assure you of that. A senator says that this is one of the things I have had in mind. Then, for example, the Regulation was changed on January 1, 2018, and it was added to the travel expenses due to a travel of health insurance during frequent haemodialysiss and also the fare of an escort with a woman traveling to give birth to a child who had not previously been reimbursed for that reason. Hv. A senator then asks if there is any way to reexamine the Regulation. The answer, as noted, is that the pay factor remains stable and also a reimbursement of travel costs. However, the principle is that if there is an inevitable treatment, which is not available in the home, the health insurance rights to pay the cost of two trips each 12 months. If the travel costs due to public dental management are to be met by the health insurance provided in Article V of the Regulation, under exceptional circumstances, in order to provide repeated travel, this should be assessed in the context of an equal opinion whether other general medical services and dentists should be applicable regardless of the severity of their disease or condition. That is really the subject, so to speak. If the travel costs due to all travel to dental specialists should be correctly paid, regardless of whether they are being treated with a pay factor, they should also be evaluated for equality whether the same should apply to various other expert treatments. Finally, the question arises. A member of the council may feel that a person who has to seek medical care outside his home needs 2,935k. In addition, for reimbursement for travel costs. It should be noted, then, that in all cases, some who have to seek medical treatment outside the home do not have to pay an extra amount to be paid for their reimbursement. Your doctor will apply for travel costs for your health care by filling out your diploma or travel report within the country, and it is your doctor's job to explain the purpose of your journey and to confirm that treatment is not available in your home country. In accordance with the regulations for payment, the certificate will be $1474k. the way things are. You can apply for more than one trip on every certicates, and as indicated in the Regulation, the individual part of the patient is subject to each trip forward and never greater than 1,500 bars. So when reimbursement of the patient is calculated, this amount is withdrawn from the reimbursement and should be paid as part of health insurance, e.g. More than 10,000 k. Over a period of 12 months, the amount of medicine in the individual patient - care unit falls to 500 dollars. For every trip. I hope, a respectable president, that my answers have been illuminating and satisfying to questions of which. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u55	Mr. President. Thanks for that. I'm not the Supreme Court in these matters, but I think it's only right here at the House, on the platform, letting everyone in this house and the rest of the people looking at me know that there's a signal of jackingo south of Keil. Scientists are aware that volcanic eruptions may be on the rise and that all kinds of equipment will begin, so to keep a close eye on the news. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u56	Mr. President. I have to admit, it's a little hard to focus on the subject after the big news just coming in. But I'd like to thank the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir for the answer. Of course, I agree that this has been greatly improved, and much has been done. To me, though, this is not really about the severity of the illness, although, of course, you want to see increased support for people who suffer from difficult illnesses. With deep respect for the fine people, this does not change the position of those who live outside the capital area to be less effective in reaching out for service. It is simply more expensive for us to attend this service. In fact, the big question may be, Do we want to balance the status of those living in the areas where this service is not available, since, fortunately, it is not just in the capital area but can be found elsewhere or not? My understanding is that there needs to be a rule of things and some organization around them. But that does not change the need for equal numbers e.g. children who are affected by dental procedures to meet with the dentist every six weeks for a check. It's an enormous price to spend every six weeks on families to go south for even a few years, so I would have wanted to answer the highest. A minister would be different. But I'm glad that she's all ready and that she's being examined. It doesn't change that I think we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-62.u57	A respectable president. Despite the latest news, we continue to talk about the cost of travel here. Of course, how important it is when the overall picture is examined to reduce the amount of money that people pay for health care and is about equalizing bioavailability regardless of their economy and habitat and resisting what may be called a health problem. Our goal in this ideal period is to reduce payment, making it a pair with what happens elsewhere in the North countries. In a financial program, we expect 3.5 billion to reduce the patient's health - care costs to 2024, and this year we expect 800 million to reduce the patient's payment. Because we're talking about dentistry and dental treatment, we expect this year to increase the donations needed to cover the expenses of people's dental services due to accidents and congenital defects and to meet the expenses of people's expenses accordingly. This year we are expected to add down payment to dentists from 50% to 25% this year, and according to financial plan, we are about to increase their costs by 200 million a year and reduce the cost of dental pension from 50% to 25% in the period, and we fell immediately during the first year of the government from 75% to 50%. It's about the social equation, reducing the need for people to pay from their own pockets and ensuring that access to health care is balanced. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. For a senator to bring up this relatively specific matter, which is of great importance to a particular group, it is important to set such matters on schedule. I want to make sure of what. The senator that these discussions and speculations and views are on my side.
