ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u1	Now it's the highest policy now. Prime Minister on behalf of the government, and there will be a discussion about the one that will be broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. The Prime Minister has 12 minutes to history, while other members of Congress have six minutes in the first pass, five minutes in the second, and four minutes in third round. The order of the classes is in all of these: the left movement is a green supply, the Conspiracy, the Party of the People, the Independence Party, the Piratars, the Announcer, the Progress, and the Central Party. The speakers for the left movement will become Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Prime Minister, first round, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, social and workforcer, second round, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir, High Vegetation and Agriculture Minister, third round. For the United States of America, Logi Einarsson speaks for the 5th. That's the north side. "In the first round, Kristrún Frostadóttir, 3th. Smoke. s., in the second round, and Oddný Harðardóttir, 8th st. South, round three. For the Gang of the People, Inga Sæland, 7th. Smoke. s., first round, Lovehildur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, 3th. South, second round, and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, 9th. We're out of here. "In third round. For the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, is first round, in the second round of Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir 1. South, and on the third round of Private Friðbertsson, 2nd. That's the north side. The contenders of Pirata will be in the first pass of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the sixth. Smoke. So, Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristtardótttir Gunnarsdóttir, 11th. Smoke. s., second, and third round Andrés Ingi Jónsson, 10. Smoke. n. For strategists, the first round of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Minister of Wood, of the second Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddsdóttir, travel, business and cultural minister, and third round Willum Þór Þórsson, Minister of Health. The superintendents will be in the first pass of the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, 5th. We're out of here. "Guðbrandur Einarsson, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all, y'all. South, second and Sigmar Guðmundsson, 12th. We're out of here. "In third round. The middle party speakers will be Bergþór Ólason, the 8th. Witchest. , in the first and third round, and in the second round Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, 7th. That's the north side.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u2	My fellow Americans. A new and renewed government has taken over, the government of the three largest classes of the Council. New election periods include some large, others smaller, and many of them are unpredictable. The government will take its work with full optimism, and I look forward to a good cooperation with all members of the council, both in government and in government. The government is formed on a broad scale, as can be determined by its grammatical agreement on how different the categories of those in its order are. True, some may feel that the classes are different, and perhaps they may be able to offer some evidence, but I am convinced that when you look to the projects and challenges that await us, the breadth of this government is an option and can even determine the outcome when it comes to creating a harmony with the people when much and difficult work is being solved. A respectable president. A new political treaty is about the collective interests of the nation, economic and social progress, the protection of the environment, the dynamics of wealth, the equality of the sexes, and the balance of communities and generations. We have been able to use the financial resources needed to support the economy and the resources of households and businesses in the pandemic. This support has paid off in a more powerful and challenging economy. Business conditions have improved rapidly, and prospects for the future are brighter. Although there is still considerable uncertainty about the progress of the epidemic, thanks to the national solidarity and understanding of the government's purpose to limit the damage. The task now is to rebuild the economy and the financial grants with support to a more varied and more intensive employment life, an increase in public investments in green projects, research, innovation, and creative branches. The government will protect public services and stress that the tax system finances the consumption, the equal income in the community, and support our goals in climate. The government stresses consultation with the labour market partners, including In the field of national interest, and will work on the interaction of money policy, government and employment decisions, continue to promote the quality of living. We need to work against contracts that are free for months and that are not settled on the contract table until negotiations are cleared, thus improving labour practices in a labour market. In recent years Iceland has been in charge of international cooperation on the development of a global economy that provides a more comprehensive picture of prosperity, quality of life, and the well - being of citizens than the standard of economic standards. We will continue to take advantage of the guidance these standards provide to ensure social stability, improve quality of life, improve the quality of the welfare system, ensure access to good health and education and housing and survival security. All of this is the basis for a good society, an equality, and the prosperity of all of us. Greenhouse practices will be integrated into organizational and transport, which becomes more important, especially in the light of climate. It will continue to be a high priority to trust housing with sufficient structure and social measures for income groups, disabled people, and older people. It will continue to be worked vigorously according to the original capital contract, which, in fact, is built. on changing travel practices in the interest of the environment and climate. Longer life span and the growth of older people in the coming decades call for new ways to ensure best quality of life and enable them to remain active in play and work as best they can. The pension system needs to grow and improve the survival of older ones. The commercial market for senior citizens will be doubled next year, and the government will be working on a pension book in cooperation with the U.S. Marshals. The microenergy donor's products will be reviewed with the aim of improving the quality of life and quality of life of people with impaired ability. In particular, efforts will be made to improve the survival of lost persons and, at the same time, improve the ability for the effectiveness of education and employment activities on their own terms. I strongly emphasize that we will be successful in straightening out the status of microenergy pensioners during this terms and achieving real changes in the social security system that will do so at the same time more beneficial, just, and understandable. The government will also set up a new human rights agency and establish the United Nations covenant for disabled people's rights. The importance of strong health care is very high on our minds after the last year's loss, and many lessons can be drawn from the epidemic. Aesthetism and carelessness have characterized an organization of vaccinations in health care and clinics. The same can be said of the information provided by a surgeon, a psychiatrist, and a publicist who has guaranteed a responsible discussion based on knowledge. National genetic analysis is an important contribution to the knowledge of the world's spread of the virus. I would like to, Mr. President, use this opportunity to express my gratitude to all those who have stood in line for the fight against the virus for a very high second year. Bioavailability has been fundamental to our performance in the pandemic, and the government will continue to stress the reduction of the patient's costs and support of the situation and the role of the Hospital. Health institutions throughout the country will be strengthened, and mental - health services will be enhanced. Children's equipment and rights will remain in place, and the government will resolve to continue strengthening the child - welfare system. My fellow Americans. There is no debate that the climate problem is the greatest challenge of our times, and Iceland is to be in front of the peers in climate, to hold our commitments to the Paris Convention, and to be better than that. We are to base our policy and actions on scientific knowledge and social justice, where no one is left behind. All our actions and plans aim to have Iceland become a low-carbon economy that will reach no more carbon exchange than in 2040. A new government has decided to set the national targets of a 55% recession on Iceland's direct responsibility and clear target of recession in individual sectors in cooperation with industry and rural society and community institutions. It is not surprising that this government will not issue a license for oil search in Iceland's economic legal history, as such practices would be inconsistency with our clean and renewable energy policies. A national park will then be established in the peaceful regions and glaciers of the highlands in cooperation with the locals, and the third stage of a frame plan will be completed. Ideas in the software industry are inexhaustible in diverse fields, including in green technology closely related to climate, but also in health and biological, software development and creative articles. The same is true of the opportunities in this country in food production, but here we can do more to produce wholesome food, support climate targets, and provide food security and better public health at the same time. A respectable president. We will suggest adjustments in the Board of Directors to cope better with the challenges we face. In Iceland, the arrangement we live in differs from that of the world in many other parts of the northern world, where the government is planning the Ministry on the basis of its political emphasis. I have felt that there is an increased mobility in public administration beyond what has been in this country and that there are many factors that have been well agreed to the success of government and Congress policy. Along with a Senate resolution that I will submit to the General Assembly for the changes that the current government intends to make in the Council of Government, I've thought to begin a review of the law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. I will seek good consultation with every group at the General Assembly, for these changes are relevant to all who sit here. My fellow Americans. The labour market is a ongoing problem, and I've arranged a company for pay equals and equality in the labour market. The changes in shift workers' work hours were an important step in meeting major women's classes, and a recent study of Iceland's Habitat shows a decrease in pay in recent years of state, rural society, and the general market, suggesting that the tools we have legalized and implemented, such as making equally payoffs, bring results. The study, however, tells us that the differences still exist can be especially related to the sex - exchange labour market and need to be handled. The fight against sexual and sexual violence and harassment will continue to take priority, a preemptive plan will be followed with force and a bill to improve the rightfulness of violations. Then they will be working on a special plan of action on the affairs of gay people. Work will continue to be revised in the legislation on land and property. The importance of government control in the face of land provision is becoming increasingly clear that land will become an increasingly sought-after resource in the coming years and decades. It is important for the government to have a specific control device in the public market, but when these companies are on the market, it is important that they have a specific control device. The bill on the criticism of foreign investments on important infrastructures comes to the council in the new year. Law code on technology is the nature of a matter in a continuous process of evolution. There are new recommendations in Icelandic legislation that are designed to increase the overall security of such structures regardless of their property. My fellow Americans. Four years ago, I proposed a plan to change the constitution in two terms. I will continue preparatory work under the proposed strategy, and during the election season I will discuss with the presidents here at the Council whether there is a desire to continue the suggestions for change. My position is here as far as it is important for the General to change the republic's constitution so that new regulations, especially national resources and environmental protection, will be gained. It is only natural that it takes time to change the constitution, and although I would have really wanted the General to get further into the last term, most important is that we choose and reach the conclusions that make peace with the Constitution, and problems are needed in all places for the changes that must be made. Serving in politics is a privilege, especially for a long time. I have been at a council for almost 15 years, and Iceland at that time has been through collapse and restoration, different governments, political fluctuations, apart from other external traumas, and is a close - knit example for the pandemic. Icelandic society has changed and evolved during this time. Although a person may find it sometimes possible, we have progressed in most areas, as recent studies by political experts have. No dose adjustment is required. I wouldn't want to trade in Iceland today and Iceland in 2007, but then I was elected to Congress, when I watched the government, the career and the community. We walked through a difficult time after collapse, pulled lessons from them, and made real changes in various fields, as noted in the report given to the Council of II last year. I have been particularly happy how different, even opposing groups, have been able to unite in not walking the same path again, for it is now, my fellow Americans, that we here are elected at council, certainly by certain people, but our role is not bound entirely by who chose us to sit here at the General Assembly. I don't think of myself as merely the prime minister of those who chose me. I would like to be careful about being prime minister of all the people of the country. The constitution makes it clear that we are required to follow our own convictions. This rule is important, not unforeseeable, that it is firmly adhered to a constitution. It has the premise that if the members of the council are on the same level, they may disagree, which is what all of us are doing, helping us to promote national interests. Controversy and even arguments are an important requirement for presenting the pros and cons of each matter. Thus, at times we need to show greater respect for the opinions of others than in the battles of the Internet, and we do well to remember that no one is the head of all the right and the good things in the community. It is our duty no matter where we stand here at the council, and there are many categories to choose, eight groups are the last to be counted at the Council, to work as much as we can to promote and improve the interests of the public, to ensure the equation and rights of all, because we are sitting here at a council for all the people of the country. Let this be reflected in our work during a new council and a new term period. I congratulate all Americans on the day of sovereignty, and remember on this day how precious our sovereignty has proved to be to us and how important it is to preserve it to the very future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u3	My fellow Americans. I congratulate the new government on renewing marriage vows after four years of marriage. The marriage at that time was somewhat unexpected and created a strange line of conflict in the politics, which I'm not sure will be of long - term benefit to us. The budget was to provide giant paces in climate, high education campaign, change of constitution, increase in balance, not to mention the words of the then health minister, who said they appeared to save the health system. All the promises may have been worth the marriage if they had walked by. The left greens justified their seat in this government with the necessity of controlling the health and environmental measures. But after a constant disagreement with partners, the Ministers of these seminaries are presented in response, including the U.S. In the ministry of the seabeds and agriculture, end up in the maintenance sector there. No promise of progress or of reasonable change. Little hope of resource and environmental regulations. In fact, this four - year government organization reminds me most of a menu at a beautiful restaurant in Tenerife, showing a colorful, fresh, creaking salad along with meat and potatoes, but it is now discolored and not particularly clumsy. What originally seemed to be a practical marriage between different and passionate individuals is now based on mutual respect for similar values; retrospectiveness, discouragement, and lack of self - control in the face of inadequacy. True, they also promised to ensure political stability, and the government survived. But people who promote social righteousness and liberalness must now ask themselves: " What is the value of the political stability that is on the lookout for an unjust seabed, the economic government for the rich, blind to the need for international cooperation, and the unwillingness to fight inequities? However, I agree with the government on the importance of attacking the climate threat and facing technological changes, but words need to follow the values and the financial bill does not indicate that they will. During the COP26 conference, the world's countries were called on not only to set considerable goals but also to put forth a clear plan of action and secure funds to follow it, which the government does not. There is no increase to climate, and the amount spent is as high as the direct concentration to agriculture. Mr. President. In the future, ingenuity will play a far greater role in our lives, and it is vital that we take decisive steps in education. What a marvelous opportunity this will be for a small nation in a vast land, far from the markets! With more emphasis on intelligence, technology, and skills, we can promote growth in conventional sectors, make them ecology, and pay for the streets of innovation. Business life becomes more diverse, and the economy is less sensitive to tragedy, and Iceland becomes a more desirable option for young people to live in. We need our complete thinking, our perspective, and our integrating all study from the cradle to the grave, how we meet the needs of the students, how we improve the teacher's working circumstances, and how we appreciate their work. That's why I have doubts about distributing education and culture to six departments. Although university and culture are intertwined, neither of these factors should be the basis for the future. You see, college is also designed to promote criticism, human rights, democracy, and art, as well as to be a mirror during the season, is important in itself. Mr. President. At that time, mankind's huge challenges will never be solved unless, in a very large international cooperation, and in the midst of the world, the Icelanders have been richly rewarded with the greatest contact with the world around them. There's ideas and currents and business opportunities here. In addition, we are a rich people, and we have a moral obligation to shoulder more responsibility in a world that is very divided, whether by climate, poverty, or the problems of refugees. It is, therefore, ambitious short - lived that our three conservative groups amass our main opportunity for international cooperation with a brief phrase: The Hags of Iceland are best paid off outside the European Union. Finally, though, it is the task that will be free of waiting, and that is where the government covenant is a sad one. There is no mention of poverty and hardly any equal. Thousands of children with want, poor income, poor older people, are not given much hope for a better time. There will continue to be no increase in housing, child - care, and disability. For example, when it comes to fighting inequities, governments have a rich role. A righteous tax system, social housing, child - welfare, and high - quality social security is important. This should be kept in mind by the government in the face of future weather events. It's Christmastime, Mr. President, and I'm sure someone here would find it ironic to paint a glimpse of the people who arranged villabls and may not be comfortable in shopping baskets at the same time as other people norms queued after a bite of hamburgers and a can of green peas in relief agencies. But, my fellow Americans, this is still the situation in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u4	President. Dearest nation. Then we're back in New Year's Eve together. Finally, after a long wait and a difficult birth. I'd like to start by wishing for a new government to succeed in the coming terms. I listened to the highest. The prime minister gives a truly beautiful talk, a dream talk about almost nothing but hopes and desires. Consider this and this, that we would even become pioneers on a foreign level of prosperity. So we need help. In other words, we need to develop a measure of prosperity so that we can identify the real status of society. Isn't that sad? Is it not sad to sit in the ivory tower so that there is no reason to descend to the earth for those who are in pain and who do not have salt in their grass? Yes, I do. The equation is spoken of as prosperity, and it is spoken of as being for all the people of the land. This government has had an entire sanctimonious period to show whether it really is for all the people of the country. Poor people have been praying for the entire ideal period in hopes that they might stop taxing the poorest people. I was hoping in some way that something more would be in hand, both in the political treaty of this government and in the debate of policy. Prime Minister, something really should be done for tens of thousands of Icelanders who now fear Christmas. What should be done for the children who lie hungry on the pillow? What is to be done in the graduation problem, where over 100 seniors are waiting to make an honorable living resort during their last days? I want to see something in the paper other than hopes, dreams, desires. I want to see real action. The only thing I really saw real in this debate - which made me happy with all my heart, and I sure hope not to be kept until the next election day, in case the government should so successfully endure the terms - and that was the legal contract of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. I'm just saying, respectable President: "Dearest nation." It can be better if it's enough. The people's members thank us for the great support you showed us in your last election. You've become a six-man army, I think, today. And there's one thing for sure: we'll sing the beautiful song one note here. We're going to get into the beat of government opposition. And we will be under pressure from governments that they live up to some of their dreams, hopes, and hopes, that they stand to be the government of all the people of the country, and not some, that they become a government not only for special interest, that they become a government that does not save the bank tax on banks that have paid over 900 billion in cash from collapse. To think, a respectable president, they dropped the bank tax by 7 billion dollars. Last year, the fishing costs dropped by over 4 billion. Then there's never money for poor people. I don't like how I'm running things. I feel really sad if what we hear here and tonight is going to be nothing more than an empty blade, dreams, and desires. To you, I tell you this, my fellow Americans, it doesn't take anything to dream. And unfortunately, I'm afraid there will be many who only live on the dream together now for Christmas. I know it on my own to have to worry because I don't have to eat the plate, anxiety because I can't give my baby Christmas. Thousands of parents - thousands of parents are in that situation today. If this government doesn't see its respect in helping them, it's not my government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. There is reason to celebrate today for many things. Congress has finally come together, that is now one, and had a long change of pace. The sovereignty day is today, and it is a joy each year. The sovereignty is not a self - righteous thing, and today it should be a good reason for us to recall what the sovereignty has given us as a nation, what standard of life we have built on it, and to be a reason to remind us that on its basis we can continue to build up the standard of living in the land. This is mentioned and highlighted in a new government contract that highlights international cooperation and an open market economy in Iceland, all on the basis of the sovereignty. And we want to, yes, be outside the European Union. A new government is now under way. It has very strong authority, that's all you can say. Here at the council, there's a very big part behind the government. It is a fine thing to do for new control, new opportunities to manage. We rarely receive an example of the respect of our private sector in Iceland, and this complex interaction between our private sector and public finance, during the process of money policy development, with the way we use our financial resources, the importance of public service, but we have certainly received such examples, practical work, for a recent over a year. We saw with open eyes what happened in front of us that the government fund suddenly fell to 300 billion dollars. lose 20,000 jobs in the very private sector. We said: The project must be to restore these jobs, so that, in the long run, we can live up to public quality services in Iceland, a powerful health system, strong infrastructures, etc. It was not by itself, and we took a long discussion here at the Hall on whether we had chosen the right course, whether it was enough, even though the government was clear that it would do more than less. Today is a good day to look back and ask yourself: " Was the right course chosen? Was it enough? We have a clear signal. Tomorrow we'll go to the budget talk. We said we wanted to grow out of the pandemic, and this year we've had 20,000 jobs. The product of the state funds is going to get very much better. This year, 120 billion will be cut off if forecasts continue to unfold. We have found the resistance, we have been able to provide shelter for our companies, so we have a strong foundation to keep going. Let us take this lesson to heart, including the future. value for the public sector that there is a powerful source of value in the private sector. That's why this government starts with a great deal of emphasis on the fact that the whole community can take advantage of new technologies, that we deal with climate change, and that we use opportunities to do more in the future here in Iceland. That is why we can improve the quality of any class. When I discuss their opportunities and challenges, I feel that I have every reason to review the recent years. Over a year ago, I stood here and said that we were probably in the fall no longer in unprecedented times. This was a period of delay, and the unusual things had somehow become common. We still have masks in this chamber. It's amazing how soon this will get used to, but hopefully this situation will soon end. These times are no longer unprecedented, they've only been with us much longer than you could predict. And while we are still in the pandemic to some degree, let us note how fast the situation is changing in our best interests. There are many benefits to us. The economy is on its way with full force. It is growing faster and faster than most others. We have been able to ensure widespread vaccination and e.g. are very involved in booster vaccinations. That is why I say: We can view the most difficult time. But that's not enough. We must continue moving ahead to improved lifestyles. Uncertainty was huge a year ago, including administration of vaccines. Within a year, we were able to say with some certainty that we would receive the vaccines and enough of them. We also had little information on the efficacy and are still learning. Still, it is possible to stand here claiming that we have the right way. We have achieved excellent results with our solidarity, and on that solidarity, we should continue to build on the basis of a solid position. After one of the most difficult economic events we have experienced, we are at an ideal position to seize the opportunity of society, to grow to prosperity, and to the beginning of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u6	Good evening, and a happy reign day. Welcome to this democracies hall in Iceland, where we have served as an independent national body for over 100 years after a national bill for sovereignty in 1918. For the last two weeks, it's been a real disaster. For two months we've watched a group of senators expose the laws, procrastination, and gross disrespect for democracy. The last election was prerogative, and we had the opportunity to send a clear message that the confusion in the Northwestern district should never be repeated. But that was not the message the General decided to send. On the contrary, most in this hall decided to confirm a conclusion that no one knows is correct or is not. Or can someone in this room say with absolute confidence how the votes were divided into the northwestern district and if the voters really wanted to succeed? No, you can't. No one can. The first test failed by the General, and it will act in the shadow of doubt as to his legal rights throughout the terms of the term. This is a farce, and the overall responsibilities of the Generals are great. At the same time that everyone else looked in wonder at Brasda's soap factor in Citynes, the government leaders closed down. For weeks, they gathered at the Ministerial Building, looking for all the ways to keep the damaged marriage going for the children. On Sunday, the results from their secret mange were clear: the 11 - page political treaty, which was stretched into 60 pages to hide the meaning of the covenant. They want to promote, shape, look, support, and revise. Any blurred, unexplained promise that does not involve a commitment. After four years of marriage counseling, could it not be better than making cohesive alliances for political balance? Where is your vision? They do not intend to take the lead in climate matters, despite the fact that we have the authority to do so. They do not intend to turn the country's resources into national property, despite a clear decision in a national law. They do not even intend to support a democracies in spite of their last weeks. Once again, it must be reminded that it is the nation who is the constitutionr. It is prepared for this government that seems to have power as an independent objective. Dear democracy. Before the election, there was no question about promises of success. But if the issues had really been in charge of this government partnership, that would never have happened. Reading the Treaty clearly shows how many cases the governmental parties are divided. In reality, though, they may be commended for making a break - in - print presentation and for introducing it to a press conference. Very spades. But this covenant presents complete surrender around the great segregation classes that they did not meet together during the last term. The Constitution, highland national park, housing problems, universal growth, and political trust are not on the agenda. Instead, the country is to be cremated and the private supply of infrastructure and infrastructure. In a self-organized bed from the voter's campaign, the government leaders never allowed anyone else to listen to the discussion that was only one matter, how left green could keep the prime chair. The battle for the environment went to the Independence Party, which was graded by the Young Environment, and democracy can only go to the dogs. For them, it is not a matter of choice but of who controls. So VG's voters finally get to see the main campaign of the Independence Party, and the forward party must be realized under their own prime minister's direction. It took two months to reach that conclusion. Everything else is clearly irrelevant, as a new minister said on Monday: The management was given a very short lead today, but we will take the next few weeks to do finessing what belongs in the Ministry. I'm sorry, but it's been saying that the council was in a llama for almost six months, and we still have to wait a little longer for the Ministers to get what to do at work. Ladies and gentlemen. The democracy does not die overnight. His death is slow and manifest to us in indifference, indifference, and neglect of the laws of democracy. But to the Piranians, we don't give up, as Al Smith said, any faulty democracy can be treated with more democracy. This means that we show respect for the nation that is the constitutionr. This means that we show respect for the democracy that enjoys the doubt. Over to you. Happy reign day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u7	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Happy December 1st, General Day. First, I'd like to congratulate the members of the Parliament, especially the new members, that they have taken their place in the great General Assembly. What a privilege it is to sit in this hall and have the opportunity to influence our community! It is a great responsibility laid upon us, who work here in behalf of our country and nation. Our mission is to lead the nation to increased quality of life in all things. Our task is to cope with the future. During our progress, we put great emphasis on optimism and joy in our campaign. We emphasized investing in people, which is the key to the creation of quality and opportunities in our country. Rather, it is clear in the new government covenant for the advancement, independence party, and the left movement for the offer of the green. In the Treaty of the Treaty, climate issues are prominent, and the climate crisis is the world - wide work that is being done today and the next few years and decades. People worry, especially young people who see their future threatened. However, the world will not be saved by worrying. Fear can have a debilitating effect. Hence, the tone expressed in a new government contract is a tone of hope and optimism. We are going to use the unique circumstances we live in Iceland, the knowledge we have of renewable sources and the energy in people and businesses to solve the tasks we face and provide other tools to reduce the use of fossil fuels. We stress that the energy exchange is a common interest and that it will be achieved by equations and guided by justice. The great controversy that will be held at the Council is designed to reflect more fully the future and the tasks it brings to us. We're going through a lot of technological changes that will change and have been changing our lives and our jobs. The changes are faster, and it is necessary to create circumstances for people and businesses to take advantage of opportunities created in the changed world. To work together housing and planning with a transport program in the same department and rural areas, there may be opportunities for us to find better and more efficient solutions. Emphasis is placed on education, technology, and innovation in new and established sectors, on innovation in government, creative articles and culture, all with the aim of creating new and green jobs all over the country. The rise of the State Fund is a confirmation that the government's response during the last terms under the effects of the pandemic in health and economic situation of the nation was both correct and reasonable. The result shows that the political balance in Iceland is important, and at this balance we can build a further application for the increased quality of life for all the people of the country, across the country. One major government project must contribute to the construction of employment tools around the country so that people may have an increased chance of choosing a place where they want to live. By permission of the president, the government covenant says: To support the development and rightness of your home country, there will be no local work unless the nature of the work especially requires it. To many extent, those words set a turning point in view of the Kingdom work. It does not refer to work without a specific location. It is a reversal of thought. Special attention should be given to the fact that jobs are localised. This is a big deal. We are also going to support the government and private shopping work to create facilities in key places in the country, but the first project of this kind is to begin at Selephoss, with smaller projects all over the country. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. We're starting a new mission. We set out with optimism for the future, optimism for the power of the nation. It is my sincere faith that the cooperation of these three groups, the forwarding, the Independence Party, and the left movement, the category of greens, the category of yes, the spectrum of Icelandic politics, causes a balance that is an important basis for progress. The covenant of a new government is a covenant that a green future is the basis for greater wealth throughout the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u8	My fellow Americans, a happy sovereignty day. First, I want to wish the government for all the best and hope that they will bring success to the nation. During my career here at the council, I've been either a member of a government team or in opposition. I have felt responsible for the majority power but have also felt that democracy is not working without restraint. My experience has taught me that one of the most important criticisms in government is often a matter of identifying what is not in a government contract. This is exactly what politics are all about; choose and refuse. In the Treaty, however, most of the cases are mentioned on a name that can be thought of, and the government has even come to realize it, happy by the fact that the nation is getting old, and the future, yes, it is beyond the corner. So it's good, isn't it? The problem is this isn't politics. This isn't politics. It is like the children who write all the parts of the world on the Christmas list and then become disappointed in what has not come to pass. The goal of a real government contract is to set priorities, and the goals are then dated and measurable. For example, the goal of the government on climate matters is fine. No one, however, knows how the government will achieve those goals. In fact, the government itself does not know. This way, to keep quiet about what is uncomfortable, is to become the brand of this government. For example, more than two years. Since the government set out an ambitious health plan to 2030. It is still priceless, and there is little answer in the Mosaic Law on this very essence. The government added to its members because of long time - long promises for the children of the country. The promise is in the government covenant, but it seems to see what needs to be said. Timely budgeted measures to shorten the children's waiting list for health and social services and funds are currently found in the first budget after the election win, which was precisely applied to plan to do better for the children, to be disabled as unsaid. It's as sad as it can be. They are far from without good intentions, not at all. But the leaders of this government know that an operation that doesn't have money is nothing more than an idea, no matter how good it is. In fact, the only clear, measurable policy in the covenant is the points that are not to be changed at all. Of course, the marine route is completely uncontaminated, and it is clear that there will be no steps in European cooperation despite the fact that there are new and very precious opportunities, especially for the future generations of the country. The government says it's going to grow out of the problem that I take into my mind, but it's not gonna happen without a valuable thing. The wealth was, well meant, becoming unsullied as early as 2019 C.E. and fired with a tilt. This is the judgment on responsible economic management, long before a pandemic, when all the circumstances were good. But what about today? Iceland's resistance to epidemics was much less relaxed than in other European countries, and today the Netherlands assumes that growth will be greatly slowed by year. That's a lot of news. It simply means that we are not able to outgrow the problem along with an inflating prices, inflation and interest rates. This situation is serious for an investment in the welfare, education, and people themselves. In the Treaty covenants, there was an opportunity for measuring specific measures to stimulate economic growth sufficiently to alter the exact predictions of the Federal Bank. There is no such operation. There will be a great deal of control over the interests of homes and businesses. Wise agreements are essential to stability, but there is no way to build trust in people and businesses unless the government itself shows how to secure the value of money. It must also have a clear future policy that encourages the trust of employees, e.g. It makes it easier for young people to pay for housing, a policy on the most important investment in the lives of most people. The area of the administration body appears to be the growth of Ministers and the inexplicable implementation of tasks, and it is not directly credible that those teaching themselves in government management will begin to expand the bloc. It is also proclaimed balance - forgive, just nothing but murder. So in spite of long extenuating circumstances and new packages, there has been little change, my fellow Americans. It's like the difference between the last terms and the current terms is as great as the difference between the old guinea pigs and the new ones. A respectable president. In order to be built up and looked forward to for the future in the future of the next generation, the development of the sister's prosperity and well - being will be built up in Icelandic society. We will speak of the long - term success of the government fund. We will make it possible for a steady workforce to be achieved, and the foundation of innovation is strengthened, for debate about the political orderliness, that this will be the land of opportunity for all but not just some, that the powerful service, flourishing culture, equality and freedom of choice will be guided in our good society. Reverence will provide a high standard for climate, resource, administrative and peripheral groups, for diverse and more powerful communities. We will continue to ask unpleasant questions about interests and power, asking for reports that cannot be published at all. We'll be found and heard. The experience of the government tells us that it is beyond recovery. Protect the public interest and speak against the special interests of the people of the country to you, the nation itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u9	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. First, I'd like to congratulate all of us on the 103th anniversary of the U.S. government. By the way, I'd like to wish the newly appointed government good luck in their jobs, despite our identifying many of the goals outlined in the Prime Minister's conference and the government's topic agreement. Presumptuous men seem to have had some problems baptizing the government. I'm going to call it the capital government myself. The city's name was taken. It is new that all Ministers live either on the southwest corner, in an area that extends from Korpu to the White Years, or represented by the three WCCs. Above all, because of the overemphasis of the groups, the name has come by means of the development of the Community transport policy in Reykjavík, with city lines and related projects. After less than two years of the Covid procedure, the availability and importance of employment are more important than ever before in the country. It is therefore a strange situation that many companies find themselves at this time, depending on their activity, whether or not they are looking for an invitation. Thus, the government is either a left control or a right control against the problems of the country. Treatment from the left recognizes a health care enterprise from an early term. I'd like to allow myself to criticize a word of the highest degree. Prime Minister in his policy discourse, where the minister said the tax system financed the combination. This puts the fundamental difference between the lives of the left person and the origin of valuable things. It's the companies and the people of the country who are financing the drinking. Without the funds taken from the companies and households of the country to support the combination, there will be no agreement. While this is not understood, it is unlikely that as a nation's releases, it will be soon to bear one of the highest taxes on all nations in OECD. The lamentable election of the Future Party seems to have guided the heads of the administrations during the two months of their visit, seeking ways to inspire marriage by means of a new government contract. The words "Go on " or" go on, " or "Go on, " 58 times. Then some things should be maintained, e.g. The government is going to maintain, with President permission: It is interesting, coming from the same administration categories, and putting too much emphasis on allowing the import of raw non-frozen meat, fresh eggs, and unbridled milk during the first part of the last terms. On the other hand, there seems to be one thing that is not to be carried on, that is, everyone's job, a project that has made our tax - colored people easier to maintain their homes and cars. At the same time as raw prices never rise, it is considered reasonable to raise the cost of building, including the cost of building. to reduce this maintenance and new structure of housing, which is so desperately lacking at this time. A respectable president. Now that I've mentioned taxes, how high they are and how the government seems to view the self - resources of people and corporations, all you can say is this amazing concept that I took note of in government financial laws. That's the term taxpayer. What would that be? Tax concentrations seem to be money that government funds do not take from people and businesses. Rather than seeing a new but ongoing government view that the state's funds have all of this but with humility and warmth of heart, the government leaves something behind in the pockets of the people who work for it. It's the same approach as when governments taxed citizens and then gave up every one a whole 5,000 bucks. And called it a gift, a travel present. Mr. President. We must start associating with people's self - resources and businesses with more respect than we have in the past few years. V.E.G. The prime minister entered in his speech that a vision of the government would be, with the permission of a president: a country will be led in international cooperation on the development of a prosperous scale. Mr. President. I am sure that older citizens and disability will be more interested in government alone in improving their interests. These terms are usually about crowns and pennies, and the enjoyment of black - headed farm conditions. As a nation, we are at the top of most of the assessments made on e.g. Happiness and equality, so to speak. Let us now focus on actually improving the advantage of those who are lazy rather than in empty speech and smoothness. During a recent term, a highland park was under severe pressure. It was very difficult to avoid the disaster that was in progress, but as late as the end of the last council, a resolution was made in the form of a committee of the former and present administration groups, which, in effect, said that if these groups cooperated in a new elected period of government development, the Environment Minister would request a new bill for the establishment of a highland park. The proselytators of the independent party and forwardees claimed that the matter was not being made up exactly as it was in their own declaration. There would be nothing in the creation of a national park. Sadly, many believed in the beauty of life. What, though, is the situation now that there is a political treaty? Yes, the National Park will be finished. It will be put in a suit of larger Lake Seven Gardens. But what should disturb those who believed that nothing was going to happen is the reaction of the former environmental minister and the current Supreme Minister. A social and employment minister, Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson, where he asked whether he was not satisfied with the procedure in the Treaty, answered that he was not, contrary to it, and said: "It will become a highland park and the way he is drawn up there will create the setting for which we need, to protect the highlands. And later, when this is over, it will be able to grow. And later, when this is over, it will be able to grow. So many were words. It seems appropriate to wish for the former environmental minister and members of the left movement to be happy with the victory in this case, probably complete victory in their own opinion. It will be intriguing to see how the independence party and the forward - looking platoons explain this in their own time, most likely in tragic terms. A respectable president. As the people around the world know, the directors of the board took good time to renew their vows, in fact, two months. It was interesting to consider the Minister's file, which was placed in the Senate mailbox of the day. My greatest attention was to the government's plans for a new health minister to take the lead in providing a bill on criminal possession of drugs. A new minister I wish for the best might come to an interesting argument with myself from the past. It can't be believed that after two months of prenup, the three officers did not fail to look into the file. They simply submitted the old ones. This would put the expression ◯old wine in fresh wine's balloons to an entirely new context. A respectable president. Despite what I've traced here, I hope that the government will succeed as adequately as possible on the task of controlling the country. It is the standard of living for the people of the land. I hope the intelligence rate gets smaller, but we got to know each other in the past term. It would be interesting if from time to time the government groups were to respond to practical suggestions, even if they did not come from their own study instead of slaughtering them and then making their own decisions some time later. My fellow Americans. Good day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u10	My fellow Americans. The new government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has begun work. Important steps were taken in large metal groups during the last terms. These include successful climate practices, new health policies, a more righteous tax system that has provided less in the hands, and so on. The new King Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter wants to take greater steps toward more equalizing and just society where all of us can live with dignity. In our efforts to create a more just society, we should look to the lascivious ones. We are to enhance our understanding of society's diversity and provide the rights of all groups. Thus, the United Nations Convention on Human Rights will be legally established and set up by a special human rights agency. That's how Iceland's interests will become the front row for gay people. Thus, the whole arrangement will be developed for the affairs of foreigners. In this way, the provision of the poorest groups among older citizens and poorer ones will especially be looked forward to, for poverty is not to pass away in the prosperous society in which we live, and the misery and bondage to poverty have to be eliminated. My fellow Americans. At this time of the year, there will be an additional 1% improvement in the improvements in disability and rehabilitatement of donors. That's the first step. But the big project is to simplify the disability system, making it more beneficial and juster. It takes e.g. to improve the potential of people with reduced ability to rehabilitate, operate, and increase the number of flexible jobs and part-time jobs. At the same time, priority is to ensure that those who are unable to participate in a workforce. A respectable president. Older people are to be offered a wide range of supplies and services and to be able to live longer in their own home. Loneliness, isolation, and outright prejudice against older people are a special concern. At the end of the next year, the job market for older people will be doubled, but there is also a need to increase the flexibility of job participation and to make sure that the rights of those who have worked hard and stress in the long years of life, which are also part of the work. of great women's classes. Having a roof over your head is one of the greatest human rights issues of the day and an important factor in reaching out. During the election season, there will be a special effort to build up rents for disabled people and older citizens within the general home environment. This will be an important step. A respectable president. Righteous transitions due to technological and climate change, access to sustained and re-education, improved labour contracts, and improved favours of lost people - all of these are challenges that await the Icelandic labour market. But there is also the fight against social substitution and violations of a work market that I will make my special focus on future council winters, and there is no need for fraud against working people. My fellow Americans. Happy reign day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u11	My fellow Americans. Has politics run its course in Iceland? Icelandic politics came out of the collapse, and in eight years three governments did not remedy the problem. People began to feel that in order to ensure stability, there would be no need for direction and control over nothing to wipe out the politicians from the Council of Government, otherwise we would never make it, otherwise there would never be any progress. It was formed a government that apparently did not produce any response. Opinions and advisers are now tailored away the political convictions of the sentences so that they do not arouse too much emotion in people. Political claims to be a disgrace. However, conservativeness in government has led us to miss out on occasion. We lose people's energy, and we spend a lot of money on short - term resources. We've lost a valuable time, and now it's time to ensure that a certain radical stability is needed. They need to take a political stand. A respectable president. I don't want to live in a society where it's who you're determined to live what kind of life you're gonna live. I spoke in the campaign with a young woman who lives in her car because her income is not enough for rent. As we sit at the General Assembly, we can decide not to run the community in such a way. The conditions of the housing market are ours. The situation of this young woman is our concern. Camp prices today are one of the main sources of inflation. They press on for money, increase the cost of real estate again, and inflation, and the game goes on. Here is a vicious circle that must be interrupted, a vicious circle that is the result of the decision-making of individuals in this room, the decisions that shape the market that run out there. Now we have to stop defending ourselves at a housing market and take steps to break this cycle. But I fear that this quest and responsibility will be extended to others because I fear that a political attitude in this category will seem too political. In recent years, the rural government has been repeatedly used to reduce the expense and responsibilities of the state's funds. The headlines are left on the table of Ministers, but the cost, the export, and the responsibility of the rural community are affected. The language category of disabled people is 9 billion missing. The successful bill will largely land on rural society, although it has been left behind by the minister, and now it is headed for the largest economic issue, one of the largest justices to determine how young people go on in life, the way this woman started her life, the housing business, will be put on the countryside. They need more funding from state funds in building, a stable building of affordable resources. They need a long-term housing plan. They need to take responsibility for this high political group that has been lost in today's indifference. They need politics. A respectable president. I became involved in politics to take my stand. It is time for the renewal, the time for the offense, the time for the stage to become a bigger step to demonstrate the value of the Algilan and the politics, the time to lead the community and to practice real politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u12	A respectable president. Dearest nation. At times, what is not said may bring more attention than what is said. This is true today, for the prime minister did not mention a single word about inflation, rising growth and insurance insurance, or the impact these factors have on the survival of the citizens of the country. Increasing goods alone will cause great problems for many, especially those who are elderly, desperate, and single - parent families. Their problems were sufficient, and they did not improve. That's why the government's insurrection troubles us with the Gang of the People. The situation is extremely serious, and it first comes and hardens the worst. I think it's a reason to discuss the cost of housing because it's the largest currency in the world, and it actually controls the survival of the households. During the past few months, according to one report, the Armada has increased in trigeminal growth to improve the burden of thawing and inflation. I ask: How on earth are rising spells in Icelandic homes to bring up inflation, mainly due to unforeseeable, uncontrollable, and external effects from a global pandemic? These interest increases have already increased the cost of housing for all Icelandic households. To make matters worse, Iceland is the only nation in the world that links home loans to a consumer science, which also directly affects contracts most people are protected by contracts. As a result of the inflation, the head of the house's insurance loans is rising rapidly, and soon it will cause a rapidly rising pay load that many homes will not have. Fifty million. K. loan has increased, on average, some 170 of you. K. in the past two years. This average will inevitably increase over the next few months, resulting in an increase in payment rate that will severely affect the survival of this family. The rent effect of the index is faster, and already there are many contracts that have increased by tens of thousands of dollars per month. Families that have not been able to get out of the trap insurance or are stuck in rent markets, families who have mentioned from hand to hand, and are at the worst possible price to deal with rising prices and, worse still, rising housing costs. So I ask: What will the government do to protect their homes? Am I supposed to believe that the government has no policy and no plan to protect the country's home from the premium? Are they really to be put under the mercy and mercy of financial companies? The government has to ensure that the growth of the National Bank cannot take place on the premises. Increase in interest only directs homes to the end of banks, where the overflow is already so much that one bank is going to pay out 88 billion on interest in some of the worst financial crisis the world has ever seen. It's not a crisis. How can it be justified that companies with tens of millions of profits each year receive in the shelter of the Federal bank and the government to raise their budgets on families, many of whom are already fighting in the banks? Haven't the banks had enough since Icelandic homes? A group of people reminds us that families cannot raise their dues so that they can live up to their commitments. Besides, they're totally defenseless about banks, for if they don't listen to their advantages, they'll eventually lose their homes. The Icelandic state has two of three banks, and now the government has to use its owner's authority and intervene in this violent nation's defenseless homes, which are absolutely unnecessary. The banks did not have to comply with the Council Bank's decision to increase their numbers. The banks still owe them their homes. So it is not a law and, in effect, irreversibly, that banks increase their curses in homes during difficult times, since they are not on the flows harvest, except for the families being brought to them on a silver plate. Do banks have no community responsibilities during a pandemic? What is the social responsibility of the pandemic government? It's the government's job to protect the homes. It should not go back as a massive possession transfer takes place from the homes to the banks, and it should by no means add to their burdens. The same applies to SMEs. They must also be protected. If nothing is to be done, we will soon find ourselves as a nation; we will be unable to do anything with the harshness and countless unappreciative expenses. At the top. Prime Minister, I would like to say: It is important and appropriate to consider climate matters, but the most efficient climate action you can take is to provide well for the homes of your country. In the distant future, concern over climate change may not be the main concern of people who are concerned about having a meal before their next meal. And a family without rent or payment is more concerned about this than about what the world will be like if the bees disappear. There are difficult times ahead, and many individuals and families are concerned about the future, anxiety that will become more and more severe. A group of people will fight to protect their homes. People first and then all the rest. Home isn't food for the banks. A respectable president. Dearest nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u13	Mr. President. Good citizens of the country. It is fitting to look back at what the nation has accomplished at the time that Danir accepted Iceland's sovereignty in 1918. We are to remember those generations gratefully, helping to transform one of Europe's richest states into one of the richest things in the world. It is not necessarily by itself that nations experience so much successful social change in a relatively short period of time, but it is when leaders and the people at work have courage, courage, and a clear view of the future. My generation's life span is not considered to be very long in years, but we have experienced much in recent times. We grew up in the shadow of the Cold War and read pages of the homes' phone book dealing with nuclear war. Later, we met other potential threats to humanity, from the HIV virus to the acid rain and the hole in the ozone layer in the north. It would have been easy to be filled with hopelessness, but we learn that life continues. Therefore, I would like to encourage the proud young people who are now looking at climate change with anxiety. Although sometimes it seems slow, we still see the huge paces around the world to reverse this trend, and we here, the members of this hall, will not leave us behind. May we be courageous, for our subjects are inexhaustible to solve with optimism. Good Icelanders. It is good for the government to stress prosperity. This has proved to be the best time for us throughout our lives. In this way, more jobs and more valuable things will be provided to help us survive the progress of our country's quality of life and well - being. After an adversity and a deep dive written during the viral epidemic, the new government announces a very high level of employment and employment. It is the government's message to ensure personal management to develop and thrive, for the good of society. There is great opportunity in the field of thought - making. A mind - working industry based on intelligence and innovation is a growing support of exports that can easily become the most powerful foundation for employment. We have many examples from here and abroad on the results and effects of innovation. Therefore, I am convinced that in the years to come, the government will ensure the prosperity of the innovations and the powerful instigators throughout the country, I am convinced that we will see its fruitage. The Treaty speaks of promoting new creations in the educational system. That's where we can be on the green side. I also pause at aims to establish the information of pension funds to have more than 20% in innovation and growth funds and to contribute to the development of pension funds for clear sources to produce possessions. The Constitution contains many more messages that I especially like. Other than the job, the health and the affairs of elderly voters were close. I found it clear during my campaign trips, so I am pleased to see the government meet them with increasing financial development and aims to reduce the peripheral impact of revenue in the social security system and to improve the survival of older citizens and disability. During my trip to the Southern District of the year, I realized that the government community was given extensive support, and so the people in the process did not give much weight to the political challenge. People want stability and fear the consequences of fiscal politics. Therefore, I was not surprised by the outcome of the election, and it was logical to test the continued cooperation of the three groups that constituted a government four years ago. In general, a political treaty carries a political spring when we are in the blackest winter of our lives. He bears hope, and that is why I allow myself to be optimistic in the coming terms of the election. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u14	My fellow Americans. How ironic it is to celebrate the day of sovereignty in this hall under those circumstances! We should be remembering when we became free and sovereign kingdoms free from the interference of King Dana. But that is not the case. This assembly is not only under the shadow of lawbreakers and unconfirmed talkers but also under the shadow of the powerful elements of the long - dead King Dana. We are here, in the power of an old - fashioned law, that all of us may be judges in our own matters and decide for ourselves whether we are right. This absurd arrangement does not match modern democratic traditions, as the European Court of Human Rights has clearly stated and will probably do again in Iceland's case during this ideal period. It is contradictory, then, to remember the sovereignty at the same time as the legitimateness of the Assembly itself still rests on the long out - of - date rules of King Dana. However, there are other contradictions that contradicted the day, as those words were heard in the talk of the highest rank. Prime Minister. It says economic and social progress. However, in the last four years, a new political treaty, and yesterday's financial bill, this government shows no improvement. Three conservative groups do not have and will not meet the necessary changes, not in climates, humanitarians, Constitutions, technology, resource or the justice system. They believe that it is virtue to stand as a protection for the same condition. The three groups call it stability. I call it a state of inadequacy to face life's challenges, and I face them with courage. Nevertheless, they are willing to do much for this alleged stability, even if it works against their own policy. Before left greens decided to go into one bed with groups that have been actively fighting against annual administrative and democracies, the Party had decided to complete its course of work that began with the 2010 National Conference and complete the new constitution, based on Council proposals. Now the chairman of this same class wants to put the constitution on a committee. This is a crippling action in the interests of evasion, which in fact can be found elsewhere in this cooperation. The order of the minister's chair shows it in black in white. A group of prime ministers who are still favored primarily for their environmental policies are giving the Environment Ministry itself a class that received a perfect function for its climate policy. A group enjoying favors or pleasure before, for their policies on refugees'affairs, brings the keys back to the Ministry of Justice on a class that refers to women who have had physical, mental, and sexual abuse for years, back to further violence, hopelessness, and distress. A mob that leads children out of the country to live on metal dumps where they live insecurity, without access to food, clothing, health care, or education. A team that sees no other solution to the plight of these children than to throw them out of the country sooner to prevent them from getting used to their safety and warmth in Iceland before they are sent back to the hell on the streets of Greece. In the name of efficiency, the Independence Party in Three Passes has provided a bill for changing the laws of foreigners that would make governments obliged to turn these women and children around at the airport without even being heard. This has been done by the Independence Party under the shelter of the left green itself. Again, they put these management guys into this harsh party at the same time that a career has been left open in the corner, allowing all of this to become unremarkable. A class that boasts of standing with children does not say when their own government puts children on God and seared. The future of these children certainly attacked the center. Dearest nation. Rejecting needed democracies is not stability. Rejecting one's values, human feelings, and prospects is not stable. There is no constant need to ignore world developments regardless of the policy or the will of one small political body of the north. Like King Dana of the day, there is a retreat that we need to put away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u15	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. We're celebrating our state anniversary today, and we can be proud of how far Iceland has reached over 100 years. The day of music is also welcomed today. There is no word that captures the importance of Icelandic music, both for its self - image and culture. It has an inexhaustible cord that appeals not only to us personally but to lovers of music around the world. As a result, music has become an outstanding success in many fields of music, and as a result, music has become one of our most important exports. Tonight, I would like to discuss culture, art, and tourism and how I believe that there is a unique opportunity in the new Ministry of Culture and Business, with a high level of 30,000 people working in culture, creative branches, and tourism and making extensive exports. A respectable president. The world's countries have varying impact on history and the way countries like Iceland are affected by the soft power, i.e. to influence through culture and art. Clearly, Icelandic artists have been our best ambassadors. Hildur Guðnadóttir, Ragnar the son of Kjartansson, Erna the daughter of Ómarsdóttir, Laufey Lín, Björk, Friðrik Þór, and Arnaldur. Indriðason is an example of such an ambassador. Hence, it was long time for the nation to gain a government agency that puts more attention to culture, art, and creative articles than in the past, as well as to provide well for tourism. A major aspect of Iceland's attraction is strong art and cultural life and it is urgent to nurture Icelandic prototypes. The government's treaty gives us good promises that the culture structure and list will be supported even more, and I would like to mention some of the measures involved. Moviemaking is an important Icelandic and cultural life. The opportunities in this article are great, affecting jobs around the country. International competitive support systems for the production of films and television are strengthened, and we are going to raise our refunds to contribute to the development of more major projects in Iceland. The music center will be set up to become one of the cornerstones of Icelandic music life. It is fundamental to be more supportive of Iceland's music. Thus, a consideration of a global study of Icelandic music may be made for some 7 billion dollars. in 2020. Artism will be complete next year and will be implemented during the season. It is time for art to have increased force on the part of other arts. Icelandic art is very progressive and has been praised and accepted abroad, so we must do better there. It's about time. It's about time. The government of Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir is quite hot for the arts, where the first government was introduced in Iceland's Art Museum and the second at Kjarval positions. Good citizens of the country. While the book people live under the name of God, the number of books published has increased by 36% in the last four years. Official support for publication of books has increased the selection for readers of all ages. This support is part of a number of government measures to promote and improve locks. We must not forget that the manuscripts were one of the first exports of the 14th - century Icelandic nation, and I am convinced that Snorri Sturluson was just very pleased with his situation. We're going to do better on design. I encourage individuals and companies to consider that every day they have Icelandic designs in their environment. So it was a special pleasure when the president of Iceland decided that the Icelandic design would adorn the Bolsses. New Topic Centres will start work in a new year and will be very important to national sector arts. It will come to support the article and make it more available to the local and foreign countries. In addition, the artist's labour and project fund will be much better. Good citizens of the country. Tourism continues to become a major part of Icelandic employment and economy, and it is important that it be given the opportunity to build up after the pandemic crisis. It will be emphasized that tourism in Iceland is a competitive industry in terms of nature, Icelandic culture, and language. We want Iceland to lead in sustainable development and innovation in tourism. At the end, I would like to quote a talk given to author Pétur Gunnarsson on the 80th anniversary of the Union of Icelandic artists, where he recalled that the BIL was founded on the ten - year anniversary of the sovereign and the pioneer forces of BIL were convinced that without a flourishing culture, the sovereignty of the United States was now empty. The ideamaker, Jón Leifur's composer, compared it to land safety and said that if the government gave only a fraction of what other nations paid for land defense, the bear would be defeated. And one of their groups, Halldór Laxness, put it this way: A nation's value depends on its culture. That is why the government puts special emphasis on the future intelligence. My fellow Americans. What exciting times lie ahead, with many opportunities facing a courageous nation! - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u16	My fellow Americans. To take up residence at the National Parliament is a role that I take seriously and will work hard to do as well as I can. Now that the government is finally ruling, we wondered what to expect and what significant changes will be made during the coming terms for the benefit of the inhabitants of this country. For me as a member of the unit for many years, the building of the foundation is what I'd like to stress, and it was revealed on my travels through the South Pirates in the leading election that it was what the people wanted to talk about. No area thrives without the strong health care and transportation systems on which it is traveling. Are we seeing in a new government covenant the emphasis on strengthening these shallows? No, I can't see that it is. I looked, for example. that in a new government covenant, a nursing home, but could not see that it was discussed. The situation of the Land Hospital has been in progress for many years, and it has been noted that one of the ways that one can go to lighten the pressure from the hospital is to build more nursing homes. But it is as if such listening is not being made. It was, for example. Signing a contract between the city of Rhines and the state of February 2019, on the construction of a new nursing home but still no shovel is being thrown out. Then there has been a debate over the management structure of the country's health - care facilities. How long will we let it continue? When does the region get to sit at the same table as the capital area when it comes to providing health care? A respectable president. One of the things I've wondered about over the years is that while law is approved in the Council with good intentions, it often does not follow. We can take, for example, the so - called NAPA agreements for which communities are responsible but are then at odds with the State on a legal issue of the State. There were approved laws to negotiate with psychologists and that they fall under the payment system, but the day later the minister of finance, who approved this law, says that there is no money for this. Words need to be fulfilled, and often it is better to promise less and keep them what you promise. President. A lack of advisers of the country's territory is a concern for a member of the country. Of the 12 stewards who have now been appointed, only two come from the three national districts. A poor part of the country is asked if this is a clue to the importance. Dearest nation. At first, I asked what would happen to the Icelandic public. I'm sorry, but I don't think there's much change in a new political agreement and continued destabilization. During our restoration, we will do our part to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u17	V.E.G. President. My fellow Americans. The rule of the government covenant is recycled material from the last term. The only thing that changes is the paper's advice. In 60 pages, you can read the beautiful promise of growth to further prosperity, the soil of opportunities, and the climate. This emphasis was also made in the highest part of a talk. Prime Ministers earlier this evening, but less for health policies, matters that concern the entire population. Certainly, it was the highest. Prime Minister on equal access, the importance of reducing the cost of service. That's what we've all heard before. In this regard, I want to remind you of an arrangement I made for free cancer treatment. It was approved, and a health minister was assigned to minimise the cost of patients for chronic and life-threatening diseases. I have not yet seen any change in people's expense, on the contrary. President. As soon as I wish a new government success in their jobs, I would like to point out that there is a need for additional success for everyone. Who is free to live where he wants to, that is human rights. Sadly, the change in the current situation seems unlikely. Still, people must travel a long way to get the necessary ministry. It is not apparent that those who need to do so would be able to meet them. It is surprising that the hospital in Akureyri would not be the same as the hospital in Reykjavík. The government's answer is to introduce a long - term health service to appease the people in the country, so it can be said that the same service is being performed to all. That's how these peoples of the country are distinguished. The central category will continue to have its policies to provide all Icelanders with equal access to health care. In this regard, I would like to remind you of one of our policies on health, which is part of the disappearance of the government's single policy and that services will be done closer to the public. The health system needs a review to ensure the best use of capitals, with the goal of maximizing services. The Kingdom needs to use the services of those who are best qualified, as well as those who use the powers of organizations and of independent partners that are crucial to human health. By taking specific steps, you can delete lists, increase the number of nursing and services, and promote home - service services. What is needed is clear political policy, policy and courage, the courage to change the system. Kerfs are designed to create a framework for society. They need to make changes with society. They should adapt to their needs and to all the people of the land. Sadly, both seem to lack from this government. Patients will continue to be transferred from part to part of the country, or rather, to the New York City Hospital. So the system will continue to serve best itself, and it is the wrong thought. Health matters should be first. The health system should be for the people it needs and the government is afraid to change the system. Only with such thinking does real promises of growth, prosperity, and opportunity lie ahead. My fellow Americans. Enjoy the valve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u18	A respectable president. Good listeners. We are now starting a new government team, and we still want to create solidarity on a broad basis for building on the insides of society. It is now important to look particularly at the challenges faced by the pandemic and the economic issues involved in ensuring the equation, notably the activities involved in the climate crisis. In our fight against the virus, we have received guidance based on science, which is based on research and careful management. This approach has been successful for the whole community and will remain a basis for economic resistance. The climate, however, is much closer and more rapidly gaining weight, since this is the case with everything in the government covenant of a new government. A major reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is vital for future generations and for earth's ecosystems. There we all have to do our part, and that can be done by our decision and business activities, by members of a community, by a group of individuals, or by a government study, as well as by using the voice of Iceland, which has a sound base in the midst of larger and more powerful nations. In climate, the ministry of food, fishing, and agriculture is particularly challenging. There we have greener policies, ranging from the creation of the left movement to a green supply, as well as the more recent policy of the movement of industry, climate and nature protection. For the policies and backgrounds it reflects, this is a thank-you. Selfishness in all natural relationships is a key factor. We are part of earth's ecosystems, but they need both protection and development. We have built our existence here on the use of land and sea for centuries, and there are many opportunities for innovation, various forms of spades, clustering, and development projects. Food production, marine use, and land use through sustainable, wholesome environments and health will give us opportunities that I look forward to working with people and living all over the country. Good listeners. It is vital that we work together on knowledge, research, and science, with the approach of governments in close surroundings, the community, and especially on a global scale. The objective must always be to keep people's and environment intact, to keep alive everything and what feeds them. These views will guide me in my position and in the work I will handle and schedule. Still left, we are called to action and again under the leadership of the daughter of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir. There are still voices about gleaning andlining, voices often based on little knowledge and feelings of inadequacy, but also miscredulity of women, sometimes rooted in a lack of faith in the ability of a woman to take the lead. I'm not going to let these voices go. Those of us who see the prime minister in our daily activities will appreciate that there is no better place for us to handle difficult tasks. This understanding has often been expressed in the attitude of the people of the land when a leader is asked. Thus, it is especially happy that, at the beginning of the new election period, more than ever, the leadership of Katrín has been attained for the next four years. We live in a good country rich in resources and human resources and cohesion, and such society is never to be reconciled to poverty, excommunication, or loneliness. It is always our responsibility to consider the interests and prosperity of those who do not have wealth, capital, or opportunities to maintain their views. In government and government, we are required to set priorities for the interests of the entire body. The scale of prosperity, righteousness, and self - control is to replace others and older standards, and this is on the basis of a good foundation that we should follow. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u19	Good citizens of the country. The dreams and hopes of our peers focus on the lives of the common people, on healthy welfare society for all of us, on the support of children's families, in order for all children to enjoy leisure and security, that older people can live with dignity, that those who cannot work with decent terms, that our young people have reason to look forward with optimism, and new residents welcome. The prosperity and success of climates combined, and technological advances increase globally. These are dreams that can come true in a rich society like ours, but this calls for a lot of work for peers in a position of government against those who want to go through Icelandic society in another direction. We need to be patient, patient, zealous, and ambitious, but our main concern is that by our actions we gain the confidence of the common people. That the public sees and feels that we're equals with them. Our fight for better terms and justice is our fight and their dreams. The election in September did not become the turning point for which we alone hoped. The political body that was presented with a bang and a bang, and the financial bill was truly disappointing to us. The government covenant does not mention poverty or clear measures to eliminate poverty and increase the equation. There is also reason to be concerned about education in the hands of this government that has torn down the Ministry of Education and Culture and has written about the government. And the fishing business is to go on to another committee. Our resources are said to be at peace, but who will make up, and what? Studies show that the nation is naturally at odds with the interest of the fishing resource. And does anyone think that the large structure will give privileges without conflict? In health matters, governments seem to think that private business is the magic solution. Let us not forget that it was a political decision to starve the health system, which is why it cannot cope with more pressures and the waiting lists were increasing. Older people are trapped in hospitals because there is no room in nursing homes, and many others are waiting for counsel. The situation is due to political decisions and little evidence that it will soon be improved. On one occasion, other groups of us were helping to fight for a safe welfare community and public business on important infrastructures. It seems, though, that they decided to give up on such things. Instead of being a right - to - left alternative to socialism, they rest in the embrace of the misuse of power and know how to apply it to themselves and their people. We have previously coped with economic and social challenges. In the United States, we are going to learn from that experience and also keep our minds on the future. Not only the future of our party but the future of Iceland and the people who live here. Our hopes and dreams abound, and we also do good things to support poor nations. In Iceland, as a model for peace, environment, and equality. On the contrary, we alone will not deviate from our ideals. The ideals that are not about the few chosen ones, but about all of us. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u20	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. In the national covenant of this government, the same is true. that they will grow to more prosperity in the future. It must be built for the future, thus ensuring the prosperity of present and future generations. We believe that prosperity will be best assured by reliable economy, equal instruments, and measures for innovation, environment and climate. We strengthen Iceland's competitiveness and improve prosperity. A powerful welfare system is the foundation of the equation and ensures that all of us can thrive in prosperity. Last year Iceland has been in charge of international cooperation on GDP development, said the highest. Prime Minister. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. That's a name for the government, the welfare government. But for whom? For disability? For old people? For low-payers? For children who live in very poor health? No. V.E.G. Prime Minister didn't want to trade in Iceland today and Iceland in 2007. Since that time the dwindling of social security has been up to 40%, and the shutdown continues to be offered by the welfare government. Cutoffs and chain-gated impairments continue. The estimated 5.6% increase in social security doesn't give you 15,000 bucks. Because, after taxation and fold reduction, there will be no left to the worst. Social security will be run over by cut-offs to local and rural social systems, which are no more than 100% of their goods put in the worst place. Despairer with 65 pennies versus centenarian impairment, which is no more than a prescription for wound populations: 1% increase in micro-piercs, such as oversus, 1%, 1,500 dollars. What will be left of the 1,500 cc's. once it's passed through a decrease, both social security and rural? Nothing. The worst of them had waited nearly five years and, unfortunately, will still have to wait for righteousness. I hope not for another four years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u21	Mr. President. Happy sovereignty Day, my fellow Americans. We're all glad to have improved state funds, there's positive signs on the air. The economic situation is far better than the appearance of the economy for a time. Now that things are looking, I would especially like to remind you of the importance of the scattered areas. The key point is that we can build and create opportunities for all the people of the land. I rejoice to see the emphasis of settlements in a new government contract that will continue to support innovation, especially in smaller settlements, and, at the same time, at the top of national parish projects. A new government will see that the Scottish route to the international flight, now called the Air Bridge, remains an important factor in public transport. As a member of the North-eastern District, I also look forward to policy development in which the regional role of the Akureyri, the largest urban core in the country, is defined and contributes to building up which can offer diversity in services, culture, and employment opportunities. I also remind you of the opportunities in the early Iceland, new agricultural policy for Iceland. The policy depends on three key covariates that will be the dominant for future agriculture, i.e. in land use, in climate and environment and in technology and innovation. The Senate now has a task to set up policy as a concierge. I look forward to talking about it. I'm looking forward to the end of the country's key construction site. The age of Olives is nearing its end. We have a unique opportunity in green energy, in earth's heat, in power of water, and in wind. It is important to make better use of the electricity already produced in the country, and the structure of the electrical transport system is national. The energy exchange is based on increased green energy production, and without it there will be no green revolution in society. I agree with the government's focus that it will be based on a recent energy policy based on the current interests of future generations and that sustainable development will be guided by the balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. This is a huge opportunity for Icelandic society. In this context, remember that the foundations of the fourth industrial revolution are powerful communication and green energy. It is a step in the Treaty that stipulates special laws on the use of wind energy and stresses that a wind power plant builds up in certain areas close to bonding and transport lines, where safety and minimisation of environmental impacts can be ensured. Mr. President. We need to work hard in national security, where the ice is a source of debris. It is absolutely essential that social security be assessed in terms of national security and that there will be a targeted and well - established legislation on national security. I believe that such legislation will be approved here at the Council of the First. National security legislation would need to include. to reach important transport, food security, network security, health systems, the electrical and communications systems, with regard to the safety of the cities and society. It is worth considering that nearly every country in Europe has such legislation, and Iceland is one of the few countries that are exceptional. Good Icelanders. The Adventist has begun, and the festival of light and peace lies ahead. Let's enjoy our living together with friends and relatives, and let's do some good. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u22	Ladies and gentlemen. When the council comes back to work during a new election period, it includes certain expectations of fresh winds after elections, which have been replaced by their commission, commission, and promise to voters. Thus, freshness does not mark the government covenant that was introduced this weekend. There the four - year - old vision appeared in the future written by the people who are burned by cooperation during the last four years. But instead of just getting the sense of happiness from someone they really associate with, they decided to season their relationship, renew their vows, and shake them only with things they had previously refused to do. As a result, the political body is filled with all sorts of innovations that they even denied themselves only a few months ago. I parked, for example. a proposal for a human rights institution a year ago and they had no sense of humor for it, but now, suddenly, in the government covenant, the government's own. Similarly, in June I proposed a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which has been decomposed but has become some sort of crown jewel in the government contract, and my proposal to ban oil searchs that had no intention of accepting in the summer - yes, you will find it on page 20. 9 and 27. Of course, it is a cause for joy when good ideas come to pass, but this puny, stubbornly stubborn attitude toward accepting matters from people in other countries other than the government certainly does not promise better politics. During the first few days of a new government, it has been difficult to understand many of the decisions made in this Iceland's largest affairs. But there are two names on the Ministerial List that most surprise me. Ministers who take lawsuits as being left greener have submerged from an institution, the environment itself, and the battle against sexual abuse. Before the election, in the Independence Party, activation lovers came to realize that they could use the climate struggle in their own favor and perhaps. ... made a little bit of money on her. Power exchange became a magic word for them, but in the mouth of the party it seems to be a return to Kárkólnað, wrapped in green aluminium paper. Although the independence class's climate policy paid off in the sun's ratings, it was rewarded by the privilege of directing that action in the government. And what minister is assigned to manage the environment this ideal period? Yes, just the minister who was demonized on the shovel was trying to undermine one of the shallows of the left green all the last term. On his watch at the State Department, NATO's military building was so great that when he finished, foreign troops in Iceland reached a historic climax, such as to ridicule the peace lovers at the government table. After that experience, the alleged environmental elements seem normal to provide him with the key to the most important Ministry, where he will be allowed to play loose for the next four years at the expense of future generations. Scientific knowledge is the basis for all the actions of the government on climate, according to the government declaration of cooperation. If they had indeed been guided by it, they would have to go so far further, proclaim real - world changes, set out clear and counting goals, and finance them, but this can be impossible because, as I and the Pirats said so often in the campaign, there is no point in having noble goals in climate matters if you are then going back to cooperation with those who have no ambition toward them. I would not be surprised if the battle against violence went the same way for the next four years. The prime minister earlier stated that sexual violence and improved violations will become priorities during the term. But to whom does it move? A man who opposed the increased control of women over his own body in the pregnancy crisis bill and named his critics, a man who gladly puts his name on almost every illusion bill put forth this way to increase the years of violence. Those who had hoped for system changes and that their voices would finally get a sound base within the council need to wait on, as the Minister of the state said on Monday, as surprised by being chosen for the Ministry as for the rest of us, there is no revolutionary change to take place on his part. His appointment is offensive to people who make legitimate demands for long - lasting progress in the cause of righteousness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u23	V.E.G. President. Good citizens of the country. Congratulations on your sovereignty day. A humble man stands here giving a talk as a minister for the first time. A health - care seminar is a large part of the picture. I've been warmly welcomed by health care professionals this week. The missions are gone. Health matters are vital, and we should be concerned about all of us, since our health is one of our most precious possessions. The global epidemic has actually reminded us of that fact. In such a situation, things often come together. We have tried the strength of the health system and the willingness to fight, which has clearly become evident and is late fully appreciated by health professionals. On the other hand, the pressures of such situations have also been exposed to the underlying weaknesses in the system. This, however, provides an opportunity to respond in a specific way. It is the priority of this government to turn on protection, to strengthen and promote good health systems, for it has proved to be the most important measure of well - being in strong and competitive health systems. The will of this journey now and to the future may well be read in the government financial bill as we look forward to a real growth in productions for business and investments, but the largest investment project is the construction of a new Land Hospital. However, the work being done every day in the medical system, where miracles are actually done, is always in the foreground. And further efforts are being made to build the management budget and to improve the system's ability to react. I'm talking about high- security space, 30 new rehabilitation units and a passenger hospital in Fos Soil. It is important to strengthen and strengthen the intensive care unit and the emergency department of Hospitals and to look forward to the goal of caring for health care. My fellow Americans. However, we must remember to view the health and health of the nation in a larger context. It is a fundamental legal matter for all to have access to health care. The health system must be able to serve individually within the defined waiting period. The individual and the service to him are in first place. It is the common interest of all of us to place increased emphasis on prevention, human health, and mental health. It will be our priority during this ideal period, developing our health system to the best of the future. Lesson for the last failure, in which we have been able to minimize the harmful effects of mankind's long - standing challenge, must be that cooperation and solidarity are everything and essential to success. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u24	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. It is appropriate to use the reign day to discuss this at the General Assembly what kind of association we would like to live in. There are many things that we agree with, but that are not. I find it sad to see that one of the most serious health problems in the nation goes above and beneath the government. State funds from alcohol costs have increased by 3 billion per year, but at the same time, contributions are raised to the hospital, which does nothing for alcoholics and drug addicts. Despite the fact that the word "healing " occurs four times in the government covenant, the meaning, the meaning of the word, does not seem to matter when it comes to this group. There, 700 people can stay on a waiting list with the condition of suffering. With this ambitious ambition, money is saved, and the government's message to the U.S., which takes care of several thousand patients each year, is very clear: sell the elf diligently. Can we not agree in a welfare community that health - care managers do not have to sell goods at the mall so that sick people can be treated in a decent way? As I mentioned, the state's income of alcohol costs has increased by 3 billion a year. Explain the difference. of the number of overseas trips due to Covid. This figure, 3 billion, is the same as the 16 largest fishing fees last year. Of course, it is of particular interest to ask whether it is normal for the population's increase in the sum of the sum of money from the state funds as much as the 16 companies combined own the most of the quathane. And to say that this reasonable question is not answered in the government covenant. It does not say that a more reasonable currency in the fishing road, not a word that has split the nation for decades, even though a recent survey shows that only 14% of the people are happy with the system. However, those who want to lose reality because of optimism may be comforted to learn that while the community is on fire in civil strife over the seabed, the government promises in the Treaty to be named, by permission of the president, to map out the challenges and opportunities in the marine roads. The newly elected and eloquent president of the Generals could hardly have said this better. In fact, I feel more comfortable quoting an excellent talk given here at the General Assembly over five years ago than that. There the senator became talking about a few families that have become very wealthy in the eater system. It said, by permission of the President: In fact, it can be said that no one is comfortable with the system as it is except those who make a lot of money from it and then those political groups who have endeavored to protect their present - day government privileges. This poor senator's name is Siggi Svavarsdóttir, who is today the highest. Secretary of the sea. The two political parties she blundered with experience and power were the Independence Party and the forward party. That is my heartfelt desire, in view of the shortness of the channel between the two channels today and the better for the conversation, to be spoken by the highest degree. Five years ago, the Minister is a guide to policy rather than a stickler in the government covenant. Finally, I have to mention our constitution. V.E.G. The prime minister said that later during the election season, she will discuss with the prefects whether there is a change. In view of the highest, those words are interesting. The prime minister has been locked up in meetings for eight weeks with the chairman of the class that has most prevented reasonable and natural changes in the constitution. It is our sincere will in return that this work will be more dignified during the newly established period of the election. We will support all good changes in this direction, especially in this direction. The people deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-01-2.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to use the time I have here at the end to celebrate and describe a surprising memory of some of the points that have been discussed here tonight. First, I want to celebrate and commend my position. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for a possible political adjustment made in a speech spoken by the Supreme Court. The prime minister at the beginning, since the potential for change seems to be much more moderate than the adventures started four years ago. Although two terms were planned under the project, it was an overall review that I believe was never realistic in terms of reconciliation. But I think it's an improvement. I would also like to welcome what is presented in the Treaty and what has been going on over the past few days, the development of organizational and humanitarian operations. I think there'll be a great improvement to the future, and it's actually a long time. At the same time, I would like to express surprises about some of the unexplained changes in the board of directors and be curious to see how they will be reasoned as the project unfolds. I think it would have been wise to slow down, and all of this shows that there's been a jump in the Ministry to get an increase in one minister. This is where we've established that the basics of the government have been renovated. In this context, I would like to remind you of a bill served as former member of the Central Party, Ólafur Ísleifsson, made available for the Central Party during the last term of the administration of the Hospital of a University Hospital. It is now part of a government covenant, and it is a joy to see it. I reiterate what I said at the end of my first talk; I think that would improve, and there would be a fine way that, from time to time, there would be good things to come from the opposition. Finally, I'd like to say, "Good citizens of the land." Enjoy the valve.
