ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u1	President. What is the identifying mark of a good politician? If we were asked about the opinion of today's politicians, I doubt that the descriptions we would receive would be what we wanted to be characterized by a good politician. We hear comments such as: " We don't answer questions, we don't work for public benefit, endless outbacks, and so forth. I'm landing, for example. regularly in replying from counsellors, both written and oral, never answer what I ask about, and I keep reminding myself to listen carefully to see if I can detect an answer from the phrase that I usually get in the head so that I can ask again and again until it is awkward not to answer the question. Sometimes, however, the gold grain comes in the reply of a minister. In April 2018, one honest answer came from several stewards when I asked about reimbursement for a minister who made the answer very clear: There had been no tradition of complying with the rules of reimbursement. This was amazing, and I have been trying to find out how, on the other hand, ministers can get away with not repaying their daily allowances for their prizes ever since. I asked a public accountant about this, and he said he was going to send a letter to the IRS, but nothing happened. I've been sending questions over and over in the Ministry of finance, and the answers from there are very clear: it has not been adopted for reimbursement. Still, it is very clear in the rules that this is to be done, even in the recent regulations of the Ministry. What does that mean? Yes, ministers receive additional taxes that need to be explained to the tax, and standard income taxes have to be paid if they are not reimbursed. However, I don't think any ministers have done so during the past decade that these rules have been in effect. So I'm prepared to claim that since those who have paid their daily money, all ministers have missed their taxes. But what should be done about it? That's why I don't get any answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u2	Mr. President. What's the best council case? It is a matter of Congress not only for children but also for family members, especially for those who have less money between their hands. I have come up with such a matter, a matter of righting children's dental rights. Children's dental cures were completely set free in 2018 under the Guðbjartur heitinn son of Hannesson, but now they are in dental court. Children's dental treatment can easily cost more than a million families, even in some cases enough to cost up to 2 billion. K. for one child. Parents now bear the cost, and smaller parents hold back even from attacking their children's dental rights because of the economic situation. Mr. President. It is perfectly unpardonable for children to be discriminated against by their parents'economic situation when it comes to dental work. After all, children also have health care for children. Children's inexpensive dental rights may be estimated to be about 1.5 billion, but now these costs fall in children's families. Before 1992, much of the required dental expenses were reimbursed, which is no longer the case. Today, a maximum of 150,000 can be obtained. concentrations that are effective when the current cost can be picked up by a million and even more. This amount has not changed for 20 years, but if the strength had been paid, it would be about $340,000. Today, but not 150,000. In the North, children's dental rights are much stronger in Iceland. Here we are by boat. Finally, Mr President, let us remember the grief of the children who do not get dental rights like other children. So let us take this normal step together and balance the game for all children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u3	A respectable president. Sometimes you see something that kind of makes you sit quietly. What brainstorm had developed the idea of having a lawyer in a respectable law firm send out the highest court. A letter of education minister in the official Chancellil with the self-employed excerpts and questions given to the minister for answering, without further ignoring the deadline, all for the inquiry that she answered in this chair from me on whether she supported the Government Radio under that minister. V.E.G. One minister said that he did so and then used expressions that the Samherian leaders themselves applied to their conduct in an apology they sent out to the kissos, that they had gone too far. For those words, the Minister is required to report a specific legal letter in a responsible emissary, as if here even to consider that she has violated some law by her comments. It has to be said, as it is, that it is a very peculiar form of communication in this kind of letter exchange and that it describes the thinking of people who do not consider themselves to be a state but a state of government. Perhaps it is true that the people of the council are not under Samaria. The members of the council do not accept their commission to operate here, but go to voters, to the public in the country. The generals owe no explanation for their comments, which fall into the chair here and submit to any existing statement or comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u4	A respectable president. Yesterday, we were putting up with the government budget until the next four years. It makes it clear that if the same government continues to rule after the election, the terms of the worst in the social security system will get worse. All the worst in the social security system is being offered in a budget until 2026 is the same old pension loss. The only increase to those who are attempting to survive in the system is an index increase but no correction of the jaw. The result is now 50%, and that's the increase in social security is due. It will increase even more in the administration of governments for the next four years. Then there are countless tax increases that have resulted from the failure of personal discounts in the country. This, along with the increased chain-mortem declines, has given us the worst place in our rich society to live on about 200,000 bucks. a month after taxes, and the worst are still in favor of a dollar. It is so amazingly economic violence that their hungerers are taxed and more than rich people who are growing richer and richer while the poor become poorer and are even less prepared for food. The government groups have promised and promised an election that now is the time to raise their pensions to poverty. These groups can't wait any longer. The only thing that has paid off to those who try to spend two weeks in the poverty business is that they're going to pay now for a week and will hardly reach one day after four years if this government is still in power. Why is there no money on the part of rich people who fail to pay their taxes and reduce everything from 75 to 100 percent, such as the pay of social security and pension money? Why isn't 350,000 bucks? tax and derelict minimum input? Why is there a minimum of 100,000 dollars in a pensioner's income? month? Why are we forbidding people to work, and this is done with taxes and impairment, instead of people working without impairment and paying taxes? The multitude of the people have bills about all these things, and I say to them, "A poor people, first of all, for their time has come long ago."
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u5	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss this free menstrual products and begin by reviewing the events of winter's past. In the fall of this year, Anna María Allawawi Sonde and the Saga of María Sæþórsdóttir to Alduis gave financial guidance to the fund where they requested that the products of the newborn be available without charge in schools and social homes. Thus, they were added to the long series of botianians who have fought for this access, of course, to hygienic products. And the council listened. Here we voted for a change in budgets to make these products free of charge to certain groups. That proposal, however, was made with one vote. There were 27 executives who voted against her, 26 who supported her. But then a high school minister of education came up here and declared that she had already directed it to the schoolmaster to secure the progress of the case, and she thought that it was realistic that by the end of the next school, the case had already been closed. The end of this school is now. Some rural societies have taken the step in the past few months, in Reykjavík, in Iceland and in the sheep's early summer, so I'm only gonna name three, but the Ministry doesn't seem to have finished the case yet. This weekend's newsletter reports that the Ministry's answers to questions on this matter are being made to make frequent products available and free to students in all schools and that there are expected to be a matter of frequent availability in elementary schools to be introduced into discussions with rural governments in the near future. This is not to ensure access at the end of the school now completed. A respectable president. Is it normal for such projects to take so long? [[The president calls.]] Is it only hope that the botanical population, which lasts year after year in this struggle, wondered whether governments will simply wait in hopes that they will graduate, and the next year's walk will not begin right away? [[The president calls.]] In this context, it should be noted that the city of Reykjavík estimates a small amount of 750,000. in the introduction to basic schools and social homes in Reykjavík City. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u6	Now's the time. A senator's past one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u7	The Ministry needs to fix this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u8	A respectable president. A federal connection, a Samherji company, is now rapidly approaching some kind of faraway stage with a recent probing request, which, as far as I can see, was not an apology of any integrity. It is not known what was being apologized for or for whom. There is no record of what the company will do differently in the future, what the company will do. Now it's no secret, and it's often been considered that the director of the company, Þöfður Baldvinsson, a good friend of the highest. High - quality minister and High Priest minister have rightly claimed to be an incompetent Már. The problem is: The behavior of Samherja requires that we be with a seafaring minister who can handle marine espionage without allowing things like friends to get in the way. This does not mean an accusation at the highest level. A minister of one thing or anything, even on the contrary, that he cannot do things because he is incompetent and if he touches them raises questions that should not be asked. This should be obvious, more dignified president. It is absurd how we begin our discussion in Icelandic society on whether to express distrust or whether he has done something wrong. A respectable president. That's not what it's about. It's about the position and credibility of the situation. V.E.G. A minister should not need to hear any short words from here from a pita. He should know for himself that at least a change of office or a temporary or something, not because he does something wrong, not because he is to be corrupted, but because he is clearly incompetent and he knows it and we know it, and we see it. It should come from the highest. Minister to yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u9	A respectable president. Today, tourism is taking over again, and this is a cause for rejoicing. That means we're getting out of a difficult pandemic, and life is getting to the same end. It also means that there is a unique opportunity to rethink a whole industry and to improve what could be done better before a pandemic struck. I saw in an article during the days that a traveling, industrial, and innovation minister had appointed a team for education and training guides in the past fall. The service group was assigned to see if and then how to strengthen and develop the education and training of guide guides, with emphasis on consumer protection, protection, and safety. You see how important it is that those who serve in the field receive adequate education and education and can show knowledge of land and nature. Language skills are also of utmost importance here, as in many other places, culminating key elements that guide guides can take in and convey information clearly. In my opinion, this is especially relevant in national parks and in nonviolent areas where there should be an increased demand for knowledge and, in most cases, recognition of the work. Our nature is what draws most tourists into this country, and it is in our best interests to ensure that it is being handled properly. In view of what I've said before in the Lady Generals and in contact with the minister of this seminary, I cannot help but say and encourage you to consider the protection of the professional guide name or at least That there is a basis for working as a guide because security issues are also a major factor in tourism in Iceland, both the safety of tourists and guide. We need to make sure that our safety is the best, and we can do so even. with increased education and education. So I encourage the Minister to impress these matters, to strengthen the education of tour guides, so we'll have a trip to a world-class service that treats nature with dignity and that its protection is in priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u10	Mr. President. A week later, the minister of education answered my inquiry regarding the academic achievements of boys and girls. The answer provides striking information, especially numbers of severe sex palaces requiring explanations and actions. As for students in high school, the performance of girls of all study programs is generally significantly better than that of boys. In high school, there is a high - school difference between genders in terms of graduation. The evidence for Iceland's Habitat notes that 35% more girls than boys graduated in general student exams during the course of 2018/2019. The same year at school, 77% more boys than girls graduated from trade school. In recent years, it is reported that the number of academics has increased, but evolution has varied according to gender. More than half of the women between 25 and 464 years of age have completed their university degrees against 35% of men. According to a recent survey in 28 European countries, women are everywhere in the majority of students, as in this country, but men's proportions are no less than here. The sex percentages of students at HI are now 32% men and 68% women; they do not reach a third of the students. In general, boys are getting out of high school rather than girls. From responses to the elimination of neonates, boys are found to be more than girls, with a ratio of three boys for each of two girls. This shows that the elimination rate of students who have left school four years after checking shows that male elimination is considerably higher than that of girls. In many parts of the school, girls seem to be doing well, and this is a cause for joy. But the question needs to be answered. Why do boys appear less prominent in the same field? Is that what we are looking for? This tail would not be tolerated if it were the other way around. Mr. President. In the shape of a new education policy, the General Assembly must deal firmly with the violations of the school system and with sex halls that the minister's reply is positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u11	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see and feel the resurrection of the land! We are successful in vaccinating the nation, and we are nearing the restoration of what we can call a normal life. At the same time, unemployment rates are decreasing, but the government has undergone some operations in behalf of jobseekers. These include the employment campaign of social and child - care ministers, known as starting jobs. The campaign produces up to 7,000 temporary jobs in cooperation with industry, government agencies, rural areas, and social organizations. Travel service is, for example, The staff are being hired by this campaign, along with the return of foreign tourists. Yet, professional drivers now face unexpected challenges. A number of people have unemployment records, but according to professional drivers, it is not always easy to get people to accept employment. Some who refuse employment are more interested in accepting compensation than in going back to the job market. Such individuals express confidence in the unemployment reform system that is behind those in need. Because of repeatedly rejecting work, 350 individuals have already had to be taken care of by the work department. Many have gotten away with this type of work because employers do not report rejection to the labour oce. It is unacceptable to be resuscitating jobs, but they still choose to sit at home. It is important to get as many as possible to the workforce as possible, and therefore I encourage employers to stay in good contact with the labour oce and to report such rejections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u12	A respectable president. The bill to legalize the changes to child protection laws from the social and child-friendly minister, Ásmundur The Einar Daðason of Dadabon, is now on the welfare board. This means that child - welfare agencies will be removed and the districts of child welfare are enlarged. At the same time, adjustments are presented for the better. These changes are rooted in changes that take place in integrating child - welfare services with other services for the benefit of children, the establishment of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childbearing as well as in the current assembly. These changes include the first part of the overall child protection analysis. The changes in existing child protection laws are based on extensive consultation and preparation of the entire ideal period. It has been agreed with the rural communities since the first stage of the idea, as well as with the services provided by service workers and service workers at the table. By agreeing with this bill, there are significant changes in the environment of rural children who are responsible for this category. Today, 27 child - welfare committees are situated far and wide throughout the country. A minimum number behind each child - welfare service is applied to 1,500 people. At these changes, the minimum increase is to 6,000 people, as well as the expected establishment of a child protection body which has access to specific measures of child protection and is expected to be special and independent multi-organized administrative units on the scene of rural society. A respectable president. This is a fundamental change in the quality and composition of child protection committees. The bill includes the rest of the bill. ... thatpoliticswillbe brought to nothing. Thus, this is the greatest change ever made in recent decades. This bill is also part of a major change in the system designed to give an opportunity to integrate children's welfare services. So here we are answering the criticism of the environment of children's rights in this country for many years and the importance of bringing it to modern awareness of child rights. I hope we all agree to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u13	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss just the aging of the nation and the insolence of officials in that regard. The nation is getting old very fast, for example. will increase by half in the next 15 years to 80 years. People live much longer now than some decades ago, and the average age has continued to rise in this country. Older people also live longer in better health, and many have good health to enjoy life at that age. But when it comes to enjoying care and service after a long career, the State did not stand up. The list of waitings in a nursing room is not easy to work, and the demands for those there may seem hard to understand. The nursing home is now much weaker than it was a few years ago. For many years the government has called on to negotiate a natural fee for the services of nurses despite having all the necessary facilities and services in its own hands. The results of this rope are becoming evident. In the wake of many years, the communities have returned their business to the State, not theirs, but they have now received enough money. Funds include the patch that the government would pass into nursing homes $1 billion, while this amount is needed several times just to correct many years' expenses. A financial committee has recognized the problem, but it has not responded adequately. There are more reports to follow, more assessments to be done, more work groups to be set up. Meanwhile, the problem will only grow. Is there a plan to deal with this problem? Maybe no one's willing? No, it does not seem to be in the number of nurses we will have to raise in the next few years or in order to get the medical management to the proper degree. Don't you think it's time long to shape a full-scale policy on this case, Mr. President? It is increasing in the work that this government is going to turn over to the next government. Perhaps this government will be recognized as delaying all problems, doing just the pet project. Everything else is to be done later, in the next term. They'll be good business for the next government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u14	Mr. President. You're right next door. The last speaker is that there are many projects awaiting the next government. But it is wrong that he claimed here, that this government had been inexorably and unreachable. On the contrary, it has done much in difficult times. When we discuss these things, we need to bear in mind that in this terms period, we have not only been dealing with the political routine, the normal affairs of government, the tax, the business, and the like, but we have recently had to cope with a unprecedented crisis because of disease that could not be controlled but also with the grounds and equipment we had to deal with. When this government's project is reviewed and what it produces, I think it will be judged in history that it has traveled well through the waves of this crisis. We commend disaster that the contractions have not been so great as fear was when this situation broke down here last year. The situation has been better, a recession last year was less than we were concerned, and in part we can be expected to account for the actions of the government. In part, thanks to that fact, both the community and the state funds were relatively good when the crisis was under way. However, we have many work to do, such as why. A senator rightly pointed out. And whether it will be the present government or any combination, the projects will be important, nothing easy. But the most important thing is that we get the economy back to the original place and do better to continue living in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u15	Mr. President. We got a representative of the tourism agency at our job committee this morning, and we took the same stakes we took with us about a year ago in this Covid epidemic. There were people from the markets around the country, or innates, as are their names today, and the Travel Office, the Associations of Tourism and Iceland. Indeed, there is a lot of optimism about the rest, the summer, and the resistance to travel. And although it may be too early to predict whether 700,000 guests are coming to the country this year, there are many good signs to go on. In particular, large numbers of tourists from the United States have been expected to arrive in the middle of some summers when the situation begins to improve there and vaccination is increasing, but the Asian market is not expected to be expected this year. While many companies are certainly damaged by these Covid epidemics, there is little room for bankruptcy, and all the arrangements and resources offered by the government surely help. However, many small companies have not been able to take advantage of this support because they do not fit into the models that have been submitted, perhaps companies that have only activity over the top of the summer and have a mixed business and on the same social security number. I strongly emphasize that we are present with these small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country. They are important for a wide variety of international travel services. It is important to build a strong network and to promote infrastructure so that it thrives, for it is the variety that tourists are seeking, not only for foreign tourists, but also for domestic. There is optimism that we need to take into the summer of this sector as well as that of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u16	Mr. President. The older citizen's relationship has presented five emphasis points under the heading: Elderly people want to influence their own lives. These highlights have recently been introduced to all members of the council. So I'm going over the points here, says here, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Older people are allowed to work as they please. 2. The end of the work depends on your ability, not on your age. 3. Health will be the cradle of aging services. 4. Between home and nursing. 5. One law rather than many law columns. It is such a pleasure, Mr. President, that the Central Party has proposed a matter of Congress involving three of the five highlights. We've suggested that businesses do not reduce pension income income income. We have suggested that Kingdom workers be able to work as long as 73 years of age. True, the government destroyed that issue, so it was directed to last year against a promise that it would act, but it was not. In terms of one law rather than a number of legal groups, the Central Party has proposed a judicial arrangement that will be cut between older citizens' laws and microblocated laws. For dots number 3 and 4, i.e. that the health care will be sliding aging services and between homes and nursing homes, has become a mission or a course called retirement for the rest of your life, and will be introduced after a week in the National Assembly. It highlights the point at points 3 and 4 in these focus points of older citizens. So it is clear, Mr. President, that the heart of the Central Party is beating with older citizens and it will appear here until now. We will reinvent these matters as often as we need to, and we will follow through on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u17	Mr. President. There is a fairy tale of a Velvakandi and his brothers, a Velhaldandi, a problem of Velhöggvandi, a good Velsporrekjandi, and the fifth, Velbergklifrandi. They all received their names as a reward from a thirsty woman whom they gave to drink. The lady said that a slide followed a name. And it came to pass, as in all good adventures, that every man gave his daughter the reward. The queen has been thirsty again, and the government has given her a drink and a reward for the name Vel ringland. Mr. President. The real - estate market is a fine example of the government of Velehringlands. One day, resources are presented to encourage real - estate purchases, especially young people. It is encouraged to use your special property. The credit rates are higher and share loans are paid. Everyone celebrates long - awaited growth reduction, but demand rises, and the market is beyond control. Real estate increases, young people in debt, and hope for the best. Then, interest rates return and, therefore, the weight of debt and interest. Young people's problems are increasing, and interest increases are still being announced. And not enough. There is now a bill that the Shared Bank will be permitted to manage the credit rates for housing costs in order to contain the market. These constantly changes lead to discrepancies. If you're lucky and buy at the right time, you're saved. If not, a person is either trapped in a rented market or is forced to buy at a much less adverse option than others at the same market or will offer. Mr. President. This is what Velehringland has most to offer to young people in real estate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u18	Mr. President. On page 11 of the report on Iceland's holdings in nationalities, the President's permission is: There is no doubt that the registration of property in national and low tax areas in order to avoid normal tax divorce and to ensure a secret is the opposite of the public's interests and will result in many indirect damages that are excluded from fully evaluating financial resources. It was just before the election in the fall of 2016 that a team of workers returned to the highest level. The financial and economic secretary's report on Iceland's property in nationalities. The minister decided to put the report in a drawer. It was published by a new minister in 2017. The staff did not have much time to complete the report and study complex data to draw conclusions, and they called for further research to prevent gross tax frauds. As a matter of fact, the current government has failed by putting down the office of an tax investigator. The report on the property of Icelanders in nationalities raises a number of important questions that could be answered. By the end of 2007, 56% of the best sciences of the Wall Street Union were owned by a national partner. These communities were largely owned by Icelanders, and the same was true of unscheduled societies in land ownership. We need to know how much of the finest science number of the Wall Streets is now owned by a foreign partner, in the spring of 2021, and how much of their associates are owned by the Icelanders. In view of experience and the intention to prevent damage, the authors point out that it is best to focus more on the issues of international trade, where the increase is greatest and increases rapidly. Travel services are referred to in such a relationship. Therefore, the question arises as to whether the surveillance and tax research have been directed in that direction in the past decade. Interpretation usually involves a list of import prices of higher than real purchase prices or that export prices are recorded too low. This results in the income of abroad, which accumulates in rural areas. Illegal compromises in trades between countries are a common form of tax fraud in various countries. Illustrating the cross-cutting trade, including by fragmentation of the trade between countries. Would such research have taken place in this country during the past few years? The report on the domestic property of Iceland reports that Iceland's National Bank on Foreign Relations and budget balances up to 2010 show a much discrepancies below error and miscounting. There is no record of where this money went, but there may have been some hidden financial conditions or money thefts. The answer to the current situation and whether unscheduled capital transfers have been investigated for financial resources and transport to national accounts. International big business uses many of the opportunities they have to move money to the lowest level. The Icelandic trading fleet is all registered abroad, as well as employees and crew rents. This is what the editors say can be called the suitable registration of property and income. Such a list as a Icelandic company or company with a job in Iceland needs to map. Has it been done? International cooperation has increased in recent years over measures against tax seas and the collection of information on the real owners of an amendment. More international cooperation is being called, now the last one of the President of the United States. The international involvement of the Icelanders in anti-IRS activities must be targeted. In order to prevent the damage that took place during the years before a bank crash, the research, maping, working on careful legislation, and working with other nations in the use of taxes must be done. Tax snow is new by people who want to hide their money from the tax and let others see their share in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting this discussion. As most people know, during the past few years the environment in the media has changed and the developments in this regard have been positive, as I intend to go over here. Some technical questions are raised here, and this calls for technical answers. First, the question is, What large part of the prime science number of the Wall Streets was owned by an African partner at the end of the year and how much of their associates are owned by the Icelanders? During this discussion, I requested information on these matters from the tax, as well as key other questions. The answer states that there is no evidence of national deportation by the ten partners making up the index, and there seems to be no direct possession in an African community. The question is, What do we know about the scope of the land use of the Icelandic economy in the past decade and how tax collections and shuns evolved? According to the tax returns, in recent years tax rates and shunts have declined. This has even happened. for information agreements that we've signed in the last few years. There is more transparency in other countries as well, and there are adjustments in national rules. New songs are important. Here is a law on the registration of real owners, and last night we were agreeing to the recording of guilty laws on the cross-cutting process. Furthermore, a change in the attitude of taxes has been made following a large public discussion. These exchange agreements have shown that there is little effort in trying because countries have made agreements to exchange information. Of course, it also counts that there are moderate and reasonable laws to remove the motivations. Generally, this is thought to reduce the risk of fiscal or fiscal practices. Regarding cross-reactivity and illegal interaction monitoring, data has been provided by taxation monitoring of the office, including direct to the export, import and trade of the cross-border. This will focus on all the points listed in questions. A senator, as well as other factors such as growth, skill, service, and sale of material and chemical possessions. When it comes to research on unsolved capital transfers, it is the National Bank to monitor it. It is the matter to monitor the action of reported parties to protect money theft and terrorist funding, that it is all in accordance with law. The bank collects information on national currency exchanges and money movement between countries. If possible, information is sent to the police, but financial and economic authorities do not have information on the particular research of such cases. It has not been specifically documented, but according to tax information, it is among the factors to be considered when individual enterprises are considered. In this context, you can point to a recent district in which a case started by the tax against the Icelandic company due to a condition described in the question of why. Senator. Regarding the trade fleet, we also need to ask ourselves, " Why have ships of trade not been registered for many years in Iceland? ' This is not a good thing, and it has been discussed in the past. Finally, each part of Iceland's international involvement in action against tax taxes is asked. Hence, it is to say that our participation is to make a part of international cooperation and cooperation. This is taking place in various fields, but during the past few years, I've signed a number of two-sided information exchange agreements, which include: has its roots in OECD work. Such agreements have gained added force. These include CRS, a standard for exchange of financial data from countries outside the United States. Also, there is the FACA information exchange between the United States and Iceland, which provides information about financial institutions and communications between countries. Also, use of international databases has been shown to be good at IRS. Finally, I'd like to say that the demilitarized communities, which are not illegal in Icelandic law. On the other hand, we say in the tax laws that we define it as a low taxation state where income taxes are two thirds lower than Iceland. We do not accept such taxation, and we tax such activity in Iceland according to local tax regulations. This is the key and this has been changing in recent years. Hence, the question remains, Does the proverbial person feel that in the tax system something is lacking or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for starting this discussion here. It raises questions that each person might be able to discuss in a long, detailed matter. Thank you so much. Ministers for the answers he has offered here and made much of the money from the Tater Tot. We're in a situation like this, Mr. President, that we're trying to get our feet in a new world. The new world is characterized by factors such as globalization. We see that it is a fierce international competition. There are strict demands on corporate interest, management. This has led to serious consequences for workers, as humans know. This has seen political consequences in many countries where workers have believed that work has moved away. Similarly, in a world where we are warned by police that there is an increasing number of foreign parties in illegal activity here on the land and many people in the business of crime, according to the police. We have a law on the defence of the money industry and the funding of terrorism, and we were reminded that we need to be on our to meet the demands they make for us. We landed there on a grey list. But at last, Mr. President, I would like to say that we have to deal with illegal business practices and ensure that the authorities on which they deal with the necessary human resources and equipment that work there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u21	A respectable president. It is important that the people and the companies of the country pay their taxes to the community. I think we all agree on that. The situation today is that the budget is international, so it is of utmost importance that order is also the same thing and that international tax monitoring work is strong and consistent. The goal is that there is more transparency in this and that people and businesses simply cannot minimize their tax pay to society by hook-up, more often than not in the power of wealth. You see, when wealth is allowed directly or indirectly to control the tax laws of the State, both lawgiver and democracy weakens. Happily, though, this area has been a positive development for the past few years, both here and international. In particular, I would like to mention the importance of law on the registration of real owners approved by the council two years ago and the changes in tax legislation that have occurred, as this has been attributed to, including: Due to your CFC partner. BEPS work on a global scale has also been of great importance. Ideas that have been embezzled among national leaders on international tax floors to the largest profitable companies and the taxation of the digital economy are also very interesting. It provides a basis for optimism that the international discussion has developed, and this subject has to be handled through international cooperation. But it is important that words follow the procedure and that effective measures be taken. This discussion also gives me reason to mention the possibility of an international wealth tax that would affect the wealth of the world's richest and could increase both the balance within and between countries. But then, of course, all rich men of the world should see their dignity in returning their good things to the community without having to call out for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u22	Mr. President. Some 60 countries around the world have the best interests of offering confidential or tax returns beyond what might be considered normal. These countries are often known as African islands, but some of them are the most severest of all, no island country but only cities and larger countries. Many offer easy ways to hide property or property, such as Belize, or low or no taxes, such as British Virgin Islands, or suitable ways to avoid the regulations of other countries, such as Cyprus or Panama. It is well known that many Icelanders have made use of such tax codes and other national services. At the same time, some have been known to suffer. Senators have done so. Hundreds are run by a prominent number. This is not surprising, since it is a common first step for those who have some money to try to find ways to secure it, to do it, and preferably without any involvement in the State. It is not only individuals but also companies who use these national areas, both to reduce public expenses but also often to help with business matters, especially in larger companies with some part of their business in developing countries. Thus, in 2008, Global Functional Integrity Project estimates that about 1,200 billion dollars flow in an illegal way from developing countries each year, more than a hundred times the world's global development aid. The Cayman Islands have given up over 2,000 billion dollars of capital and property registration. None of these things in themselves should surprise anyone. Some of these things are illegal, some of them legal, most of them may be in the moral, gray area, if not a coal - bear complaint. However, there are both legitimate and moral legitimate reasons for running a business or holding possessions in such countries, and the problem involves some. President. The question is, What are we going to do? There are various ways, e.g. International cooperation on minimum tax rate, biotranslation, cross-cutting guidelines, exchange contracts, and so on. [[The president calls.]] I may be able to deal with this in my second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u23	V.E.G. President. I want, like others, to thank you. paritaprevir For requesting this special discussion, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. She's very interesting. I have exactly, like the highest. Minister mentioned earlier, interested in hearing from the hear. A senator how she envisions possible changes in current tax laws in order to improve the handling of these objects. Certainly, it is not illegal to have money in debino communities, in taxes, as we have seen, but is it moral defender? Tax snow is in the ground area where income taxes are not paid. A complex complex is created, where legal tax pay will be counterwarmed. The moral standards of those whose communities are now and whose standards are set must be trusted. It is almost impossible to know fully whether everything is given up and what it means to have such a society. At the same time, we are at home working together to build a society where everyone should have the right to the best health care, education, good housing, and equal opportunities. It is natural for people to feel hurt and angry when news comes that tax revenue will be made as national income grows and thrives. Kant introduced the idea of public willingness, to act always, so that the principle of principle that you follow should become a general law. In other words, man is to consider whether he wants all his activities to become a universal law and act accordingly. If a person chooses to cheat, he agrees with that of others. A respectable president. In recent years there has been increased agreement on the importance of business morality. The power and influence of an enterprise are greater than ever before. We are a few people, and we should have all the resources to provide all the necessary services. But to be honest, it is important for everyone to look at what he is inside.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u24	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir for starting this conversation. Sadly, the problem in this country, like many others, is a big problem. In the areas where union registration is incomplete, anonymous bills are permitted, and there is no requirement for annual accounts, Icelandic society becomes billions of dollars each year. This also means that there is much to be kept in the dark about the activities of large business partners in the Icelandic economy. However, there is a big difference between having an international society registered and paying for all its expenses, and having a national community profited to place capitals under normal supervision. The most recent reference work is in the Panama Documents. In view of the appeal number, Icelanders are undisputed world championships in exactly the local community of taxes. During the last government session, at the time of government restoration, we recommended that anti-reflation measures become effective, including the U.S.A. effective monitoring of abnormal cover to the negative pattern would be required. I encourage the government to dust off these proposals and to make the real recovery of those materials. Then there's something else I'm going to say. A government to do the fastest. It's about to complete a report that I was premeditated to request, and a number of members in this hall supported being partners and all elected to vote, so that they can be observed: reports on investments of the largest outputs and related to their holdings here on a foreign basis, undistracted marine roads themselves. These are two suggestions that would make the capital transport between Iceland and other countries clearer and more transparent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u25	A respectable president. We are here discussing the property of Icelanders in foreign societies, and thanks to this discussion. The information published in the Panama Documents shed light on the dissociation of society and the corruption in many places. All are under obligation to participate in society, and those who are not inclined to escape that obligation are to betray their fellow citizens. Sadly, those who have the best they can do to escape that obligation can be found to be repeated. Not everyone is going to start a drawer company in the tax industry, ordinary people don't have a partnership in Cyprus or Tortula, they say themselves. It is difficult to see why people have to have such communities. What may be the purpose of something other than avoiding tax pay? Hence, it is reasonable for governments to investigate carefully when it comes to the fact that money - bearing members of the country have a community in an area of the country and see if the purpose of such communities is to help people and businesses escape tax payments. We should've done a lot of tax research right away when the Panama Documents came to light. If so, we would also have done more tax research after the Namibian fishing coverage. Instead, we have reduced the surveillance of the tax investigator by decommissioning the office and moving the operation into the tax. Then we have not answered the district attorney's calls for additional funding to investigate the alleged economic offense. Now the danger is that a case falls, or grows old, and the guilty escape without returning their own to the community. I will find out more in my next speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u26	Mr. President. Sadly, tax fraud and money laundering have an unbreakable bond. A recent report from the FAFF financial action group and a government official's risk assessment shows that tax violations are one of the major capital violations of money. Possessions and contributions to ethnic areas are a major part of the two tax fractions, tax fractions, and money laundering. So it is incredibly important that there are enough funds to eliminate taxes and that human power is guaranteed, but it is also that institutions that deal with excommunications and charges on those matters are committed to work peace, capital, and work environment, but not to put down an office of tax investigators as the government has done. Mr. President. There is a small number of local authorities in this country who pride themselves on changing things for better reasons when it comes to such things as the protection of informers, putting a law on transparency of corporate owners, and even when it is accepted measures to resist tax fraud or tax subsidies. Professionals often forget to mention international tax frauds and tax collections. International cooperation has increased over the past few years to counter taxes and also to provide cross-border data to inform on the real owners of an African society. Through our international cooperation, we have adopted regulations about these objects that we have adopted international standards, including those: from the Council of Europe, in the reports of OECD and adopted by the Norwegian Ministers. This international cohesion is actually a fundamental factor in what has been done here in this country in terms of these factors, such as the protection of informers, the transparency of corporate owners, international cooperation on tax fraud and tax collections, and so on. International witnessing has had a far greater impact on these things than on the initiatives of the government of the United States. It's more about reducing tax research, such as subsidizing the office of the head of the IRS, as we saw before Christmas. This has been the case with increased tax research and increased independence from the tax investigator. It's good, and it's necessary in big matters like Panama and the Secret Bank investment route.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u27	V.E.G. President. As you would expect, this discussion is a source of resentment. It works on you like they're trying to pick up some dust. I am no closer to the opening speaker of this discussion. paritaprevir It's a suggestion for Harðardóttir Hardydirdóttir. Is it being suggested that Iceland's prohibitions be kept in low taxes? Or is it being suggested that tax laws be adjusted in some way, and how? We ourselves are trying to subtract from foreign activities through tax appeals, especially in filmmaking. Are people talking about banning it? Where are they going? Our point is that we can get information and, as a result, monitor possible tax charges or taxes. There have been countless things done in the last few years and years to ensure that, like the highest. The minister of finance went over here. Of course, it is what matters to us that they are the right taxes where they should be paid. I'd also like to object to the specifics that always come out, i.e. to reduce tax control in recent law, where the tax investigator was united with the Tax. He wasn't laid down at all. IRS reduction is not the least possible. It is being made better and more specific. Of course, this is just a bunch of dust, maybe because there's a little bit of an election coming up, I don't know. But this discussion is long over. There's so much that we've done to make sure we get the right information, that's the right taxation. In fact, we've already made sure that if the taxation of low taxes goes to a minimum, we can tax it here. That's the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u28	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. The apocalyptic, what. Harðardóttir For bringing up the matter of this urgent discussion, a Oddný of Edda G.. Of course, the main issue is not that Iceland may not have money abroad, but the discussion has sometimes been on its way. The task is to ensure that in the extent of our jurisdiction and taxation to the Icelandic state, these assets or income will be paid tax returns. It has been so many years that humans have been encouraged to store their savings in foreign funds. Many prefer to store their special property in foreign funds. Who doesn't recognize a special fund like Sun Life and Allianz and so forth? The public of the United States spends its money in such a fund. Do they know where these boil their fruits, and in what? While paying taxes and expenses in Iceland, it is not important where the money is stored. The task, Mr. President, is to have a clear and clear law at this time so that no one can question his rights and duties. The system to handle this problem is to be strong and have enough resources, tools, and funds to deal with tax collections in a powerful way. But that has not been the case for a long time. During the period of tax research, a significant decrease is needed in the area. That's where I'm pointing to our main problem, that's research time. It's way too long. In view of the fact that shortening the study period results in much greater justice and its warning effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir for bringing up the subject. It is important, and it is also important that we discuss it openly and try to get some sort of harmony on what matters. In view of the importance of financial markets, it is very important not only for personal reasons but also because the resulting trust must be part of the community's glue, guarantee that the same rules apply to everyone and that everyone will follow them. One of the things we are discussing is the importance of scattered property on the market and is even encouraged by the public to place some of their savings in a market company. In such a situation, it is especially important that information is available both because of moral questions that may arise from those who are planning to place money in an enterprise, i.e. Whether they're going into business with their own community, let's say, but also because of the factors involved in investing. Investment of financial markets and access to information that may be used by investors must be ensured, all of this information needs to be secure. The experiences of two decades ago and the collapse have shown the importance of this. A healthy financial system is important to all of us. For those who have real financial resources on the market to pay for the welfare system, it is essential that the community be at peace with the financial market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u30	Mr. President. In view of the possible solutions to this problem, there is one thing that is rarely affected, though obvious, to strengthen and promote monitoring institutions and international cooperation between monitoring agencies in sufficient ways that they may have the ability to examine the vast number of traitors who use this service. The government's decision to put down the fictitious government and the UNECE and to assign this work to other funded organizations is, in a way, the root of the problem. However, although Iceland alone is not available to stop this operation in an African country or to prevent international tax fraud or to prevent illegal capital transport, it has everything to do with researching the biggest fragments of Icelandic jurisdiction. The strains involved in this often have limited access to research and may even need to rely on data leakage. Is that a sign that in many areas a pot is seriously broken? This does not help some members of the Parliament to be more specialized in extending the gray area and making its outline more permanent, as could be heard at the beginning of their speech. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. In fact, the problem with the source of this discussion is that she asks questions that the State does not know, which may not have the answers and may not have the answers. But if there is such a will, it is clear that it is a long way that these problems will be resolved in an acceptable way. In fact, I'm going to say that I'm not particularly concerned about Iceland's tax fraud to the Icelandic government, it's mostly minor in the big context. No doubt they can be resolved by supporting the establishments of the State. My concern is much more that continental islands have become the basis for modern civilization under the control of international corporations, who use the weaknesses of the government systems of poor countries in order to engage in a wide - scale profitation. The overall emphasis on these activities should be to ensure that no Icelandic company can get away with them and to work with the developing countries that we support to further their defenses against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u31	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Oddný with the need for this discussion, the G. Harðardóttir and the advocate. For many years, it has been an unpleasant problem that individuals and legislators would take money to hidden places in an attempt to hide it and avoid paying taxes. At the same time, these parties enjoy all the good things a country and a nation offers. As we have learned, however, any person who is involved in this trade, whether by criminals, by business officials, or even by officials, may have been caught in tax collections, as it were, around the world in recent years. Impliciting tax avoidance and scrutinizing can be difficult for researchers. It is a long thread of money transfers and extensive document processing by experts who through the rules and policies in search of windows and gray areas, which they use in an artistic way. The world's governments have intensified their rules and have worked more together in combating tax gains. This is a cause for rejoicing, but in that work everyone needs to be on his toes. Experts are quick to find new holes in rules, and we need to respond quickly and fill them with holes. This is done only by careful research, instruction, and strict rules that will not violate the freedom of people who work in good faith. In addition, such work depends on cooperation between countries, especially in view of the international nature of tax collections, and preferably in cooperation with the countries that are active in the tax competition that constitutes an opportunity for tax practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u32	A respectable president. The damage done to the community as tax frauds is concealed. We cannot see what would have happened to the money if they had returned to the community. It is therefore difficult to grasp the scope. Let us imagine, though, what it would have helped many microenergy pensioners to pay in line with the minimum wage insurance of the biographies if they had paid off or entered the health system to shorten the list of children and others who need help. When rich people betray taxes, they violate those who need help most in the community. The insurance companies are funded where money is pumped, and people get compensations because of accidents. In this fund, insurance companies pump unlimited funds, but then they try to pay as little as possible. As a result, they're like an ex-whisper. paritaprevir And Blöndal the Brimbal said that there would be money without a shepherd. Do we remember the consequences of that? What happened? Yes, the savings fund disappeared, it went to Tortola or the Cayman Islands, jumped from there to China, and ended up in a luxury apartment there. Then he jumped back and was told that he had ended up as a pledge to the pool on Elfune. We still have this thank-you fund there. The financial watch to protect them is carefully closed into a drawer in the Secret Bank, so nothing is done there. What's strange about this fund is that civilized nations do this stuff every five to ten years, not us. There's a bunch of money without a shepherd, waiting to go back on the road to the Cayman Islands, Tortula, and a luxury condo in China.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and minister. Parliaments for the participation in this discussion. Although not all questions will be answered in a brief discussion, it is clear that questions and comments made by the author of a report on Iceland's property in a national area since 2016 require a clear answer. And that has not been done. There is no doubt that using taxes to hide money and possessions for the tax will result in economic damage to government funds and loss to the welfare services of all the people of the country, including those who cheat on taxes and who have, in effect, revealed themselves to the community by fraud. The characteristic of taxes is that taxation of earnings by individuals or associates is neither or negligible; confidentiality and the commercial environment is all officiating. Small countries that offer their address to companies to the tax area are known in the Caribbean, but these are also found in other parts of the world, islands of the Pacific, Erma Straits, Cyprus, and other parts of the Pacific. Their agreement is that they are poor countries with weak infrastructure. The funds derived from taxes in other countries do not benefit the inhabitants of these lands. We Icelanders must provide sufficient funding for control and complex tax research to eliminate this lesion in our society, improve legislation where improvement is needed, and work with other nations. The Icelandic government has to do better than that. Their conduct must not be superstitious, confusing, or sounding like a paradigm in the fight against tax fraud, which is at the same time a betrayal of the Community Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u34	A respectable president. The discussion has shown that we have been making major changes in the European legislation on the tax issues of the past decade. We have also taken action that had not previously been seen. I'm going to buy tax records in that subject. Buying data on Iceland's property in a foreign country is a unique operation in the United States. The result was considerable, although we do not have information at this time about collects due to the pressures of new taxes, but we can be sure that this is far beyond what was paid for the data. Similarly, we have been guided by this discussion by several important changes. Back then, in 2009, the change in 57th pars was under way. a in the income tax laws used in low taxes. Over the course of time, this article has changed, so we develop this law to define clearly what we consider to be a low tax state. In Icelandic tax laws, they are not really recognized. It is not recognized that taxation can be taxed into low taxes, but it is the countries that have more than two thirds less than the Icelandic tax would have been for the legal body listed in the provision. These are basic measures, the fundamental changes we've had, and it's very important that we don't mix with the international workings of an enterprise with what is under the low taxes state in Iceland. It is not every international job that is illegal or immoral, as you might often expect. Thank you for your helpful discussion. And finally, we weren't putting down the office of an tax investigator but were uniting it to the tax investigator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u35	A respectable president. When I last published a report at the World Council on April 26, the last of the last district epidemic, a number of groups had been infected in the capital area and in the South, but it was successful to overcome this population of infection by standard measures that we have had had a good experience in all the epidemics. There was no need for extensive intervention within the country due to this population infection, but in May, the number of infections ranged from 01.7 per day and the majority of people have been in aseptic environment at diagnosis. On May 10, I took the value of the provision for meeting boundaries where the number limit was increased from 20 people to 50 and, in accordance with the motion of a psychiatrist, decided that there would be continued decomposition in this country with a new Regulation, which went into force on May 25 of the past. The main involvement of these cases was the increase in the number of limits to 150 people, and the maskary and the order was relaxed. Limitations on the number of swimming and bathing sites, skiing and camping areas, and collections were lifted and also at gymnasiums. The maximum number of audiences or sitting events went from 150 to 300 people in each skirmish box, and in recess, a restaurant was allowed. The restaurant payment time was extended to the end of the day. 23, but in shops, the mask was removed and the rule of a maximum of 200 people was canceled. The protocol for these changes is valid until June 16th. Overall, according to data on covid.is, 202 persons are infected, 1.553 in a so-called screening environment, 40 subjects in isolation, and two in a hospital. The vast majority of persons in isolation are 18◯49 years of age, and most of the older have been protected. The vaccinations of the people of the land are doing well, as we all keep track of them. Already about 60% of adults have received at least one dose of vaccine. Depending on the planned schedule, it can be assumed that more than 90% of the vaccine dose has been given in the latter part of this month. Today there are 91,893 fully vaccinated. This is 31% of the intended vaccinees. I think we can all be happy with our vaccination status today. With regard to the border, the environment regulations, isolation and demonstrations apply on the Iceland border between June 15 and the next. It, as previously assumed, requires a negative PCR test, a cross-level sample, an aseptic bed for five days, and a post-hoc sample. The changes in the Regulation were then made, starting on May 31 are no longer required to go to a place of disease because of coming from the high risk zone, but they will continue to be obliged to have aseptic environment that cannot be kept in their own homes. This is because the incidence of infections on the border has continued to decline from the valid time of disease prevention at the end of April. There has been a rapid decline in the number of high-risk areas in Europe with a decline in the epidemic. As previously vaccinated and those who present proof of previous infection of the undersemins of disease have been brought to visit the country. This group is at the lowest rate, accounting for about 80% of all delegates in the Keflavík Airport. The goal is to stop taking samples from this group from mid - June. Finally, it is important to assume that changes in air travel laws have taken place and that the secretary of transport and rural government will issue a regulations tomorrow in which flight drivers are obliged to examine the passenger's certificate for burdening in accordance with the law. This can greatly reduce the stress and payment rate at the Cheflavík Airport. The Council and the European Parliament have agreed on the implementation of digital Covid-19 Witnesses to facilitate travel between countries during the summer. The rules cover vaccination certificates, proof of previous infection, and PCR certificates, all of which are already being evaluated in Iceland's border with great effort. The currently achieved module means that Covid-19 related certificates will be produced in a consistent way within the EEA and Switzerland so that they will be taken on the border. This proof is expected to be in the progress of July 1 and Iceland and is already technically prepared to participate in a trial project that will begin over the next few days. As I've been through, the situation on the epidemic is good in this country. We've let down the rules on meeting boundaries. Vaccination is going well, and our daily life gradually becomes normal. We need to remember, though, to be careful, to remember that if we experience symptoms - this is not done. But I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage everyone to go to vaccination at the time of the reception, hopefully we'll have a few minutes left, and we'll finish this together, with our solidarity up to and down to here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u36	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's excellent review of the situation, a report she conducted here. It's one thing I've regularly observed these past few weeks, and I've found one of the most strange things in my life. It is in what way it is related to the vaccination of parents of chronically ill children. That is what has been going on in our discussion ever since February 25th. As a result, it took more than three months to call out very firmly after the parents of long - suffering children being vaccinated because these families are under heavy stress, both because of the special caution that family members need to exercise and, as we know, what we have to do about the concept of ring vaccination. News of this now has been received, but on May 24, it was announced that health care had finally been provided with a list of candidates for chronic illness, as the State Radio report of that day, with the permission of the president: - i.e. May 26, 2010 - Onsets of Long-term ill vaccineed with Pfizer, mainly children with long-term childhood disease who are not vaccinated. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on: ▪ The head of nursing in the health care of the capital area said that health care has long been waiting for a list from the surgeon general's office of long - suffering victims. It arrived at the end of the last week, so we can start with this group right away. This emphasizes the importance of immediate vaccination in the event of the list. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister how it came about that it took all this time to cut this knot, for it obviously was possible. [[The president calls.]] Of course, some personal protection issues are there, but since this knot could be cut down, what would explain that it took three months?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. As indicated by the senator's case, it was not that this group could be accurately run out of a system without leading to that point. It is also true. A senator said that such views are such as the personal protection principle. This group was grouped under the pre-existing group or those with underlying conditions in view of the fact that these are close contacts. It was and turned out to be, according to the information given to me by a surgeon and a psychiatrist, it was difficult to find out exactly who were in this group. The procedure, priorities, and then the implementation of the vaccine itself, is performed by a disease - control doctor and then by the health care provider. According to the information I'm getting now, for what I ask. Every member of this group should have been vaccinated by now. But I agree with them. The senator's opinion that this group is important is important, but there are many groups that are important, as we have seen. Especially do I rejoice that this group has taken refuge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. There is some evidence that this group is vaccinated from March 26 onward because of the importance of vaccination. This was done immediately and the lists were available. If we keep in mind that the community has been here more and less in the other end for over a year, I have to admit that it was difficult to control the parents of these long - suffering children, I don't think I'm a very good explanation. Let it be, but to a large extent, it lies in the company of these children. In addition, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister now, because I expect this to be the last Covid report at the highest. A minister proposes this council, in connection with a contract intended to be made: the highest. A minister suggests that there will be agreements with all the candidates of vaccines so that the public will have a choice there as to what the relevant will take, or whether we will remain single in the European community, which we have been stuck in for some time? I also ask: Is there a need for more than two vaccinations? Is there any information on this? And then, if it's the highest. A minister can answer, because I know that her assistants are sending information to the phone here in a pont: what cost are the costs now due to vaccines and what plans are available for total costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u39	A respectable president. First with regard to continued agreements for the purchase of vaccines, the European Union has already concluded a contract with Pfizer for the next two years. We are willing to participate in that cooperation. However, we have not completed our study of other options, but we will need a vaccine to continue in the year 2022. We're in a hurry. There is an opinion that we need a supplements, as the call is and we may wish to vaccinate children between 12 and 15 years of age. It's all for inspection. We've just called for the surgeon general's numbers about how much money we've made to buy vaccines. I don't have that number right today about the total cost. But because of him. A senator talks like that, and I know that. A senator has had doubts about the initiation of the European Union, so I think it has been shown to have been a very reasonable arrangement, but we, in addition, have also received a loan from the Norwegian people who helped. Iceland is now among the European states, which are about the longest in vaccinations, and in fact, it was as early as last week that we exceeded the Americans in terms of vaccination rates. So, above all, we can rejoice in the performance of both the local epidemic itself, the effectiveness of national action, and especially the implementation of vaccinations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u40	A respectable president. I have to start by thanking the Minister for the report she's brought here earlier, and hopefully this will be the last report she'll be giving us on this occasion, enough of this has been difficult. But it has been important for us at the council to receive these reports and to review these matters in good balance, I think that this is very important. I do not doubt all the good will that has been done both by the minister and by all those who have come to be vaccinated, that they go as fast as possible. Of course, we all look to it to an end in a short time. As shown in the minister's speech, we are relieved of our limitations. We all find it anywhere in our society, and we sense that our professional life is starting. I have spoken in a few of these discussions, and I have always emphasized that the solidarity of the organization and the community in this matter have been very important. Most of us have agreed on that, I think that is part of the progress we now see, and hopefully it will continue. I am concerned, however, that the return of workers in a job market could be a burden to us. I've been discussing it on a welfare committee and beyond, and we discussed it, including... On the pro board this morning. I'd like to ask the secretary if she'll share any concerns with me. I'd also like to ask her if she would agree with me that the cooperation and advice of our best citizens, our surgeons, and the psychiatrists and those who have been on the front line were the key to the position we are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First of all, I share with who. A senator is concerned about the work market and the business. Yet, there are some things that are going better than we thought they would. Unemployment figures go faster than some predicted, and tourism seems to be straightening the cow faster than we feared over a period of time. So there are signs that we will achieve a faster measure than the passing of a period. Why have we been doing well in Iceland during our fight with Covid-19? I think it's three. Hv. A senator here brings up the community agreement, I think it's a top priority. Hv. A senator also notes that it was important to follow the advice of scientists and our most skilled people. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of clear leadership, too. As we have seen, it is also important to be realistic while watching the numbers and seeing where we are. How happy we can be of the position we are in today! The current reference was to our status in vaccinations in Europe, which is the situation today, June 1, 2021, that Iceland is in the world of 15.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u42	A respectable president. Yes, I do not want to belittle the fact that the minister is also honored for his career in this case, and all who were in the forward line, especially the staff of the Land Hospital and Health Organizations around the country, the nurses who also needed to deal with the difficult conditions that were created. I may have asked a minister of this before I ask them again, " How will we use this experience? ' How will the health - care system take advantage of this experience, the pressure on the staff, and how it will come about, which may also come to light better, and how will we prepare as best to be ready, whenever possible, if we experience such a relapse again as we are about to sail out of the water today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u43	A respectable president. How can we benefit from this pandemic? Of course, there will be times when we will make up the rest of this period. In his inquiry, it is clear that we do not see today all the possible consequences of the epidemic, of the community, of individuals, and particularly of the ones most recent in the front line, whether in health care, in our schools, in our social service, or where it is in the system. It is important that we make it all open with our eyes and that we take care to be thankful to all the people who have exerted themselves in the interests of society. What we have learned and are positive is that we have seen what our health system has to do with strength, flexibility, and vigor to innovation. Many of the things we've been doing in the Icelandic health system, whether in the sample or in the treatment of Covid patients, are reflected by innovation and good ideas for change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u44	Mr. President. One operating room in a hospital has been closed, and surgery has been delayed because of a person's concern in the hospital and a lack of space in the intensive - care unit. At that time, the heart surgeon has decreased by half, and correction of the chest is preferably delayed. Acute surgery in the hospital during the first year was followed by a significant delay in the selection of elective measures due to a lack of space in the intensive care unit. Then two of the four heart surgeons have retired in the past year, and five experts report work at the emergency department in the last few weeks. A subset of intensive care makes it impossible for a patient to go in there after an operation. Therefore, operations are delayed, operating rooms have been reduced from seven to six. Mr. President. Now you're gonna have to push your legs around. Despite a pandemic, other aspects of the medical system must be considered. Fortunately, Covid is on hold, with a medical system that is falling apart. During the days of design, stress, and safety periods in medical institutions, however, two conclusions were issued by hospital doctors on the condition of health care professionals. The government is encouraged to ensure that the hands of physicians are adequate, so the work load is acceptable and, of course, applies to all health groups. Their work environment must be used professionally so that the safety of the patients is always immediate. It concludes with the conclusion that to ensure security at the workplace, it is also important to ensure a normal supply of beds and thus reduce their average efficiency according to the nations we compare with us. What doctors say applies to all health care professionals in Iceland and the medical facility. Mr. President. The condition is very serious following the administration of Covid. What's going to happen? A health minister to do the work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u45	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here asks about matters that are not relevant to the report under discussion. But okay. First of all, the changes in operating rooms at Land Hospitals are primarily due to the better hours of shift workers, which I think we can agree that is primarily a major step in improving the environment, especially women, in health care. It is quite clear that it is a challenge for the governor of a hospital to respond, but I have strong faith that it will be. Hv. A candidate in general asks about the design of health care services, and I have established the National Board for Education and Development in the Health Care Department, where we attempt to deal with the overall system in which we look for an extended future in education of health groups, not only basic education, but higher education as well. There are representatives from the local school institutions, but like our key health institutions, who have both the role of training health professionals and, of course, providing health care. I don't agree with that. A senator says, and unfortunately, this is not the first time. A senator speaks as if the health system in Iceland was about to collapse or is somehow out of order because it is primarily extremely strong and good and powerful, our system. We now see this especially in Covid and in the battle against the virus how powerful it is. I expect we will be able to control the issues of education and design. But it is an international challenge that all health - care systems bring about, and we do so here in our country as we do elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u46	Mr. President. Yeah, it's about the situation. The report presented by the health - care provider is presented in its version of the situation, but here we need to discuss the overall situation following a pandemic Covid, as people, both the general population, patients and health care professionals, need to be maintained. According to the World Health Organization, mental health problems are one of the main factors in the battle against the Korean epidemic and are not excluded from Iceland. Never before in the history of a nation have so many women taken their lives here in Iceland and last year, more than twice the previous year. There is no psychiatrist in a fixed position in the country. Despite the clear claims of the General Assembly, psychological services in the health insurance system are unsaid. The government decides to distribute 600 million. K. The amount of money, like a shepherd's over the country for the benefit of a nation's mental health after a pandemic, puts 1,500 million for a trip to the gas station N1 and KFC. Mr. President. This small dose healing of the nation's mental health system after a crown virus epidemic is not acceptable. There's been a lot of waiting lists here. There is an 80% increase in hospitalisations for children and young people in the psychiatric and juvenile wards over the last year. A psychiatrist who works there recently said that it was not an accident but a long - term product of saving the prevention and failure of the system. Mr. President. There are 150 children on a waiting list at the BUGL walk unit. There are 340 children on a waiting list at the State Analysis and Advisor Centre. There are 600 children on a waiting list at Development and Behavioral Station. Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of health. We'll talk here by Covid. We must have the courage to face that situation and acknowledge that this is the situation today. [[The president calls.]] This is the situation today, the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u47	A respectable president. Likely, never has there been such a big step in any ideal period of health care now. This has been done despite Covid, but in part because of Covid. We've added 800 to 1,000 million. K. in the centre of the National Institute of Mental Health at all levels of services and primarily in the Medical Center, where we have established a mental - health team throughout the country. That's very important. This year there are 250 million chosen to negotiate with psychologists. I hope it will work out quickly and well. I'm not sure that health institutions out of the country view 600 million as faunas. I think it will make a difference in order to improve the quality of service to people who need the ministry. But we have also contributed 540 million in the past year and 540 million in this way to mental health because of their importance, not just the end of the service to those in need of mental health care, but also the fact that it has to do with all of us, our social service, our schools, our homes, and our families, and our social health issues. We've all felt that this will test our mental health at Covid and the challenges that Covid brings so that I expect it to remain the subject. But we need to watch this project from all sides, both the gates of prevention and of public health and the sides of health care itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u48	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for your report. How positively the positive report of the epidemic's situation could bring us here today, for, as shown in her case, there was some uncertainty about the number of people infected in the community last time we discussed these matters. I think that is exactly how it worked out, as well as what has been done to deal with the epidemic and how it has responded to it in Iceland, show how well we have managed to deal with the situation as they have been at any given time. I believe that much of our success is due to our success. There are tremendously positive numbers. A minister studied here regarding vaccinations and how well we have dealt with them, both from within the country and from among other nations. The majority of those currently in isolation are reported to be on the younger side, with the same group being the last to receive vaccinations. So I would like to ask, " Is it still not good for us to reach people? ' There was a natural huge team effort here at the outset, where we saw a lot of community media when people came to be vaccinated. Can we not continue to be optimistic about that, now that we are in the younger age groups, we will continue to be successful in reaching people and getting vaccinated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u49	A respectable president. When comparing the status of vaccinations between countries, we can clearly see how precious it is to have strong infrastructure, i.e. Based on an arrangement that has a good record on the person and clearly where the vaccination will be carried out. We have been able to bring vaccinees, not the other way, in some places where people need to register for vaccinations. It helps a lot. However, the second factor that is also of utmost importance is the willingness to give up the vaccine. Icelanders have always been among those in the world who have been very positive about vaccinations. We have been relatively involved in vaccinations in general, whether as vaccinations of children or of others, so it seems to follow us into this program today. I expect the future to go well with people. I haven't been informed of anything else. There are also certain viewpoints that might motivate people to be more vaccinated, i.e. if it's about making it easier to travel and travel from country to country, etc., which may be less important to young people. So I think, as so far as I'm concerned, we should do well and I hope there will continue to be a premium of immunizations here that our people are deeply involved in them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u50	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers, and I agree with her that it matters how the debate about vaccination has generally been in this country. This will affect at this point how we enter these injections. Then I hope it's the right thing to eat at the highest level. Minister, and, in fact, have no reason to think otherwise, that young people want to be vaccinated, that there is a strong motivation for it. However, I think it is very important to keep hammering the importance of getting all vaccinated as soon as they get offered. In view of how good the situation is in Iceland in terms of the epidemic itself, one allows himself to think a little bit ahead of time and what happens after the epidemic, because now we may not be in the emergency situation that we were in here a few months ago, much less that year. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to review it over what she thinks we need a focus during the period when the vaccination has become generalised. The traveling overseer may not be the prime concern of the people of the land, but we need to work out what has been going on over the past year. Where's the top count? Minister that we need the focus in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to add what was previously reported about the vaccine will that according to surveys, more than 90% of Icelanders are participating in vaccinations. It has been so far in the Covid vaccination process that all materials drawn up into syringes have been found in an arm so that nothing has gone right into the courtyard. Hv. When we are faced with the epidemic, a senator specifically asks what subjects we need to consider. I suppose then she is generally dwelling on the social challenges that will become our subject. In part, we are talking about the direct consequences of Covid such as: that there will be a considerable number of people who need rehabilitation, that there is a considerable number who have experienced anxiety and depression, and who need special attention to their mental health. There's a group that's experienced loneliness, claustrophobism, lack of association, etc. Others may have experienced the exact fact that the relationship grew better and stronger, etc. All of this is something we especially need to look at. The lesson we have learned from past social events, such as the economic collapse of our time, is that the crisis of society in general is a shock to our attention. It is good to consider, not just the effects on individuals as such, but much more so on the community as a whole. That's why I think it's really important that we've made a lot of money, at least. So far, to go through the epidemic primarily through the arms of the joint. I think it can be very difficult and painful for communities if society's problem breaks through such traumas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u52	President. I would like to start by thanking the political bitch a little for the success of the epidemic. Over the years, everyone in this room has worked very hard to eliminate this epidemic. There are many things to thank the government and the opposition to the government. Piratar and I have been focusing mainly on getting more support for the treatment of disease prevention, focusing very much on it, as it was the last time we brought up the antiseptic hotels and air travel. Of the measures we would have liked to have better in the overall process, we would have wanted more support for the treatment of disease prevention, and perhaps the surgery at the time the last time some were not fully supported and did not come out well enough in the future. But it's hard always to look in the rearview mirror. Our approach to this has been to try to gain a little more confidence and support for what is being done. It is important to have better support for disease prevention because patience is not endless. We saw it, for example. This time in the last wave of national action and transmission, there was no patience and really no understanding of the rights that people had, for example, had. For curfews when under field conditions and such. It was a difficult situation. We can now see at the Surgeons that people come here, spend five days on the Sarcotic Hotel, and they have two hours abroad, but they don't get any information in English or Polish. It's all hard. But we are entering port, and our demand for the Piranha has been that its government may be a little better, giving more support. It has only been lacking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u53	A respectable president. This is such a solemn moment, I hope this is the last report I'm giving to the General on these matters. I know it's the highest. Mr. President has a potential number on how many times I've done it. Then I find it very helpful to go over where we are, not only with regard to the epidemic, but especially what the political role has been in this case, both its authority, a psychiatrist who has decided a role under law, and since the legislation, who has taken over a huge number of councils, of financial contributions, of the legal reforms that arise from Covid and its consequences, and has shown what is in it repeatedly, I would like to say. I think our council, which we're tired of sometimes and that sometimes we don't give back everything it could bring, has really done well. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Senator Porta for having been on this watch, which is about asking questions and making the demands of leadership when the reality has not been set, and showing a moral approach and an understanding that we couldn't always provide for the corner. Often this is how it is, as indicated in the case of a man. A senator, that you'll see better afterwards. We'll see, for example. that we waited too long in the fall to tighten our operations because we wanted to believe that we had a group infection. However, we did not, and as a result, we remained in that trolley until Christmas. But the foundation has made us very successful, and I feel that we can only be quite proud as democracies to have covered this and not succumbed to the temptation in general to make preventive measures and extramarital measures of political bickering.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u54	President. In that case, I would like to ask the highest question. Minister only for more information about vaccination. There is little uncertainty about vaccinations e.g. people who have already received AstraZeneca. The next injection is due soon, but according to the delivery plan, astraZeneca is coming to the country and people are not sure if they will receive the same vaccine again or any other syringe, or how they will be provided. I think it'll be all right, but how? Why is this? That's what you'd like to see here. At week 13, 8,000 were vaccinated with AstraZeneca. However, at weeks 25 and 26, which should be given by the board's web, these 8,000 will be vaccinated, there are no established dosage regimens of AstraZeneca. It's such a vision that you can see from the numbers, and there's a lot of detailed information, but sometimes there's a question about the holes or what's missing in the details. Then it would be interesting to know about plan B, especially in this case. That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u55	A respectable president. I agree completely with what. A senator says that it is very unfortunate not to get a better delivery plan than we have received from AstraZeneca. There are some explanations related to the production and other factors also related to certain spheres that have happened to AstraZeneca as an enterprise through all of this. You can see it clearly in communities that, like Britain, bet very cheerfully at AstraZeneca that it was wise not to have all the eggs in the same basket and spread the risks a little bit. We have assumed that in particular these very large healthy young women who have received a previous injection of AstraZeneca may receive another ingredient in the second syringe. It is important to speak even more clearly in that group, I think I am, and especially because there are certain questions that arise there. Surgeon has said it's safe. It is better to have the same substance for both times, but the other is safe. But there are questions, such as. as a certificate, i.e. how we could clearly publish proofs in Iceland, even though there are two different vaccines. The question, though, is, How are they taken from other countries? These questions are still in the air, and we're looking for answers to them. Once again, I'd like to mention that it is very important to make a demand for tragedy, although not always because it holds all of us on our toes. That's why I'd like to mention that a management board and surveillance committee also called for all my data and from the DC's office to review the support and background, etc. In a democratic community, such communication is to be part of a decision-making process. I have found that to be very enjoyable and sensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for coming here today and bringing us a verbal report on the SEC and vaccinations against Covid-19. I must say, the position of vaccination is far better than I dare hope and yet I am a very optimistic person by nature. It is a pleasure to go to covid.is and see how the vaccination bottle is gradually filled. We're beginning to notice tourists, and the restaurants are filling up, and hopefully life begins to run its routine. I have questions that may have occurred in some way before, but there's a big difference. Vaccination is reported as vaccination of children. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on how this situation works. In particular, when I think of high-risk children, reports are that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved the use of Pfizer-BioNtech for children between 12 and 15 years of age. How is the assessment by the European Medicines Agency? Is it possible for children to be vaccinated at risk with this information in June? They also make me want to ask the highest. Minister to what was actually introduced into the last talk, i.e. ... thata journey has reached many Icelanders. We have examples of vaccination with AstraZeneca as a previous dose and Pfizer as a second or mixed vaccination, and you have heard that this is not a full vaccination course and that you cannot receive a vaccination certificate in the United States. Is there anything good about it? Is it not time, then, for us to set some rules or rules in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u57	A respectable president. First only about 12 in the context of 15 years and Pfizer. That is correct. A candidate who has been authorised in the United States and the CHMP on medicinal products for humans, a certain National Expert Committee, recommends that the vaccine Pfizer should be increased so that individuals 12 to 15 years of age may receive vaccine vaccination with the product. It is now approved for individuals 16 years of age and older, but it would probably be the same way, i.e. two injections three weeks apart. In Iceland, there is no decision whether we would go that way, but an examination is made so that a psychiatrist is considering these matters accurately. Hv. A senator may also consider more matters, but I may want to add just what was presented about second vaccination. We can say that we have more time, since it is expected that there will be an interval of up to three months between the first and second injections, to see how all of this takes place. We're hoping that more of AstraZeneca's products will be coming in and anything that comes to vaccination two. We're making sure that the Astra product will be used for vaccination two, we want to keep it in place. As a result of proof and recognition of a cross-border combined vaccination, I have no better answers than the ones I have already given. But it's perfectly clear that this needs to be examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. In spite of everything, we are on the right track. Vaccination is rapidly increasing, and the wheels of the job are approaching a normal rotation. We look forward to a better time; the sun has become more evident. We're seeing more tourists, and we're sitting outside for dinner, but you've had no hope of ever going. But that's life now. Spring's coming. Vaccination does not necessarily work as well as it has done, but nearly one third of individuals 16 years of age and older are fully vaccinated. Then, the debate has developed that there are only different paths in this, depending on national parts of the country. Is a test taken from time to time, checking whether it is consistent? You've heard that the North American Institute of Health is a little behind the West and we're here. But then, once we get to the end, and I hope this has been the last medical reports on Covid, we must not forget this period. Now we've been going fast and tremendously well through this time. We've learned so much, both in politics, in medical institutions and other things. So I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister: Won't this experience and learning work out well in the health - care system? Is there any firm outside of this, that it's going to come to us as best use as much as possible in the coming years as possible and in the next round, which hopefully will never be?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u59	A respectable president. First about a question why. National Parliament: As such, in planning for the distribution of vaccines, a psychiatrist is trying to ensure equal distribution of vaccines across the country. It may be that some one part of the country is only out of place over a period of time, but it will be over again very soon and never be an enormous difference. Hv. A senator specifically asks about this experience, and I think it's an important point of thought. This experience needs to be settled in some way. It is quite clear that we will settle the experience with the health system and will make it up for the way we dealt with the epidemic, how we were determined to use the disinfectants, how we bought vaccines, how we distributed them, how we planned vaccinations, how we decided border limits, etc. It's just part of his job to set up the epidemic when he's behind it. But we also need to do better. We need to make this up in a much larger context, as we've only been put to death here. We need to settle this as a community. We need to settle this as politicians. We need to make this up as forward workers in various fields. The school community needs to make this up, the clinics that such a person needs to do, etc. The lesson involves not only how we deal with potential epidemics in the future but also how we as a community show our strengths and weaknesses under pressure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u60	A respectable president. I have to admit here at first that I haven't had time to listen to all the discussion, so I'll excuse that in the event of repetition. But I just wanted to come up and talk about the good results of Iceland during the shots, and I think we're gonna find it a lot, and it's very clear in international comparison. I feel that the conclusion that the government has done very well in this regard and that it should be mentioned, and thanks for that. Because we're sometimes ashamed of them, too, when a good deal of success appears in your face. I believe that it is clear that this position in the country on cooperation and cooperation, the theme, has led to these successs and cooperation on a global scale, the attitude of handing hand in hand with Europe in cooperation with vaccination. In terms of success, and it was the basic obligation of the government in this pandemic to secure the interests of the people living here, to protect ourselves from the virus by providing vaccines, I wanted to say that the situation is so global that there are substantial differences between vaccinations. In many lands, little or nothing is available. I think it's best in North America and Europe, the worst in Asia. I would be interested in hearing the highest point of view. A health minister there because it's our own interests that the whole world is vaccinated but, of course, it's also a matter of justice - I want to hear it expand in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions as well as for what it says on the issue of government in the matter of success. Then I think it's right for me to assume that it was just the initiative of a council party. The senator to whom this report began here at the General Assembly. I am told that this is the tenth time that I as a minister present to the council a report like this, which was first proposed by a council reinvigoration, and then a part of the legal environment of changes in the treatment laws, that this would be done. I think it's good if you feel it more when you're down than when you're doing well. But this is a project that I think is exemplary. Hv. A senator rightly points out that the battle is primarily to protect his own society. It's the job of governments number one, two and three to watch out for their society, and that's what we've done. At the same time, we cooperate with the countries of the world and with the United Nations through COVAAX, setting aside the budget for the purchase of vaccines. We have also made a commitment to eliminate the remaining vaccines when the epidemic is passed on to the countries that need them more because it is the right thing to do. After all, the senator says that the epidemic is not behind the whole world until the whole world has actually completed that task. Clearly, then, it is quite clear that there is much ahead. We place considerable funds for this pot, which is actually the largest amount for Iceland, although there is not enough money on the world over to change everything. [[The president calls.]] But we are keenly aware of our responsibilities in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u62	A respectable president. Yes, it must be the duty of the government in every state to focus on the situation in the country, and as I mentioned in the previous talk, we are doing well and wish we could get the whole nation to the very first place. But I was interested in this in what the voice of Iceland might be like. Of course, we won't resolve this problem, but we've been in the situation before that little Iceland's voice can affect the turning of the lights in certain directions, that North America and Europe will not forget that the problem goes beyond this. We'll see, for example. what is happening in the United States in this regard. There are nations that could well be transmitted. That might be the point, each one of our messages in this regard, to other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u63	A respectable president. As shown in my first response, we have been working primarily through COVAAX, but we are also working together with the European Union, towards higher doses here. I'd like to agree with what's in your previous inquiry. A senator wrote about the importance of going along with Europe for the purchase of vaccines. I think it will be late enough repeatedly just how important that decision was. I think it is of great importance that this discussion is not about whether we are involved in the European Union or not, which has, unfortunately, been the spirit in that discussion at times. The one standing here is not necessarily its spokesman, but when appropriate, we should accompany our good neighbors in Europe. We can have a voice in the community of the nations. We've had it, and we can keep it going. We do so through COVAAX, but we have also been able to, fortunately, that initiatives in land hospitals, a number of ventilators to help in India, and we are always to bear these views in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u64	A respectable president. On December 14 of the past, 58 were agreed on by a special report from me and eight other members of the HCP on the health - care board's waiting list due to the Covid pandemic. It says, under the permission of a president: With reference to 54th. The Constitution and 54th par. The review of the General Assembly is requested by the Health Minister to report the effects of the Korean epidemic on a health - system waiting list. The report will consider how waiting arts evolved after the Korean virus epidemic and the methods used to limit the growth of a waiting list and the methods used to process a waiting list in the future. A waiting list related to public and specialist medical care, mental - health care, and rehabilitation will be discussed. State of affairs will be reported in public institutions and privateised institutions that provide health care according to a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance. A report with the request says: ▪ Following the outbreak of the Korean virus in Iceland, several measures had to be taken to prevent disease. At the same time, the pressures of health care were greatly increased. This has led to the failure to perform as many operations as has been done in the past, and many services have been limited. Prior to the outbreak of the epidemic, waiting for a variety of health services were far too long, so normal questions arise about today's situation. Because of this waiting list problem, a health minister is asked to check and recognize the state of the medical system. Thus it can be found whether further action is needed on the part of the Generals to stem the waiting problem. On May 10, during a discussion about the President's conference board, I kindly pointed out that the report was due about two months earlier than the time it was natural for the report to arrive. Then I received an answer from a health minister who told me that I could expect the report at the end of the month. That's why I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Where's the report? Is she coming into the council before it's over?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u65	President. Thank you. Senator for reviewing your report request. Of course, it is of great importance and is part of it, which was previously asked in the discussion how we would make up the epidemic, that we face this factor, which is the fact that while our health systems are primarily in the process of treating Covid in a direct and indirect way, we will naturally feel that projects are being built up that would otherwise have been accomplished. We assume that this report will be made to the council if not for the next week, just before the council goes home. I haven't seen my report in drag, but I know it's in the final meters of the Ministry. I'd like to mention, because we were. A member of the United States has so often discussed replacement operations, assuming that by means of an additional clinic at the Western Institute of Health, some 430 operations a year will be possible there. It is estimated that the joint replacement site on Aranesp will be implemented in 2022. In effect, we have the extradraft we want to see, that we can be working on replacement lists and achieving the goals we would like to reach about waiting time for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister is very much needed. I'm sure we'll agree that it's supposed to be a court order, and I think that's the best thing to do. I think it's very good if we can discuss this report before the end of the council because we also have to deal with the consequences of vaccinations. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: Has there been any prediction in collecting information about the consequences of accidents, traumas, and other complications? I've been doing it on my own bodies, I got AstraZeneca, that I had a whole month to recover, but I was so lucky that I was in physical therapy, and I know of people who haven't recovered yet after a month, just in the areas where they're badly damaged by accidents or other things. This is one thing that we need to map and be good for the future, so we can expect to take these individuals into account at the time of the next vaccination.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u67	A respectable president. The Marketing Authorisation Holder (EMA) will be wrapped around the ADR file and it is of course very important that information on the side effects in the larger and small ratios to keep track of the experience with certain vaccines, not just for the batch we are currently in but, rather, before the second run. A senator rightly points out. We are also tracking the side effects in Europe, which are also listed in other countries of the European Economic Area, so we try to ensure that these data are well collected and that decisions can be based on that knowledge. Thank you. A senator's point is that this is very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u68	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for the report, as it entered earlier, have been quite a few of them at all this time. I see that interest has diminished in the discussion of the Covid case, which may be of the good, because we've just become a bit optimistic. Even though we still need to remember to watch our personal defenses, we are in quite good shape. I see in the news that an invitation is being sent out, a respectable president, a random invitation to vaccination, to individuals, and we are down to women born in 1982 and men in 1999. I've mentioned it here at the highest. Ministers and merely wondered how far we should go in age, how far we must go to get adequate herd resistance in this country. As much faith as I have in immunizations and am convinced that it is our way out of this, so what groups can just protect themselves from it. I want to roll it up. I see that the # series has got a whole new meaning on community media, before it was usually referred to pop stars on the way to the country or foreign chains that are being opened here, but now it's just the vaccination of the good. In the last second, I just want to come in and see if we don't have a special opportunity right now after Covid. I know that the pressures on our health have been tremendous, and we have also experienced how important it is to have a private person, someone outside the public system, who has been very powerful with us on this project. So I wondered, " Is there no opportunity for me to talk about mixed business in the medical system? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. First of all, when we have what is called herd resistance. This is one term from this new dictionary that we had by means of Covid. Now we're just talking as if there's nothing normal about contours and flocks resistant and what it's all about. When a psychiatrist speaks of herd resistance, he often mentions two numbers. He mentions 80% of adults or 60% of the community everything, so it depends on the point of reference, and it really matters. Of course, it will be a little exciting to see, when we are going more randomly into the younger groups, how it affects the spread among young people. Still, it seems that we are getting quite good control of the groups. These viruses that are hatching in society do not seem to be very well established, likely because we have placed our most vulnerable and older people in safety. It is as if the virus cannot find, what should I say, its strength resistance, as many have become vaccinated. Hv. A senator asks about and speculates about this precious cooperation between public members and private members through Covid. Of course, that is correct, especially Icelandic genetic analysis, the scientific knowledge within the board, and the emphasis on sorting every single Covid virus in Iceland. There we are assigned to an all - special class, to be able to examine each individual's infection in such precise ways. This we could have done only with the cooperation of public and Icelandic genetic groups, and for that, it will be late fully appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and exactly will agree, it will be late enough, and the importance of looking to such parties, the importance of our having a powerful scientific team and a powerful innovation company that is ready to enter and come with us into this struggle. What may be related to this, too, because our wonderful Landspians have had to shut down operations, there have been several times when non essential measures have been delayed, the importance of looking outside the hospital and other members are ready to take on such important tasks. I'd also like to mention this, because there's been a little bit of a discussion, public health, and not directly from a vaccination, of course, a public health degree, but maybe a mental health, exercise, a healthy diet, and other factors, and the importance of observing it. I admire what the surgeon general has been doing in his research and think we can take this initiative, if we say so, important information on how best to encourage improved human health in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u71	A respectable president. The last comment for the tenth report comes with a solemn gesture. I want to say it, because. A senator makes up a decision that was stopped during a period of time according to the surgeon's indication that they were actually stopped by private sources. That's because the hospital is always the place to be handled if something went wrong, so it had to be stopped in the system. Hv. A senator is particularly concerned about public health. They're very important, and we're paying special attention to the public health impacts of Covid, but I'm also looking forward to seeing the Generals finish and putting public health policies into our future because public health issues are very important, and especially when we're kicking us from the bottom of the wrestling with Covid. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u72	A respectable president. Here, in this first speech, I want to mention just the points that I consider essential to a budget in 2021. The legal committee will consider when the case is referred to there. I'm going to enter a report on a single group of cases that will first be taken into the legal office of 10,4, the Ministry of Justice. It's suggested, by permission of the President: ... thatthe mercenary's budget will be increased by 200 million. K. In support of the work of the Red Cross in Iceland and the National Accident Control Society, the public community of the United States, which has played an important role in Icelandic society, as stated in the work of the bill. The reason I specifically mention this is that the Economic and Business Committee is now working the bill aquifer on the global environment of the P.A. If you read through the statements received, the criticism seems to be directed to a large extent by trying to force all these public interest companies into the same model. They have to do the same paperwork no matter what type of company they make, and so on. I see a reason to mention this in this context, because there's an extra budget of 200 million here. K. to these two fine associates. We need to be careful as we examine the P.R. regulations of the drive, the initiative, and the tip of the operation, as well as the regularity of public bodies where, as seems to be taking on this bill. Secretary of finance, members are being pushed into being homologous, and the emphasis on writing seems to be far greater than those communities think to be wise and justified in their own efforts. I will now get that information to the Central Party's representative at what? Committee. This is a known problem, including from the United States, where public and volunteer organizations have just grown up because of a rule that was, in fact, a prerequisite for some official support to come in that direction. Until then, the majority of the unions had been driven by volunteer work and vision. But as with so many other things, as you are concerned about the media today, when people are on the state side and hand over to the writer's language, which has the right to be protected from public funds, all the power and vision go much farther away. It'll be more business. I wanted to mention this in this context. I'm going to keep a panel of 11, transportation and communications, to the end of my speech. Next time, I'd like to step into 141, a travel service where they say, with the permission of a president: It is estimated that the legal rights of the mercenaries will be increased by 750 million. K. to finance II's travel administration Since this bill was submitted to the Council for - well, wasn't that just suggested yesterday? At any rate, it came out of print before the weekend, so the information cannot be old in this document. But here's what we're going to say, by permission of the President: ▪ The total cost of travel for II may be 1.4 billion, considering that all who are entitled to travel may use it. In addition to the 750 million. K. which is now requested is estimated to be 650 billion. K. will be funded by ensuring the use of unpredicted budgets for the past year, which were provided for promotion and marketing campaigns within the country in travel services. Is that the case, then, about 650 million that are ruined from that team or were they being looked forward to such a high budget still available from travel I? I don't think it's going to work out as far as this morning's data on the great use of tourism I on the last day, yesterday. If I caught the story correctly, it was about 80 million, so I figure that it should be only less than 80 million left in the entire budget. But just so it's possible, what made the 650 million scheduled for promotion and market service in the country not new? Was there anything in the market that caused it? Was it just because the Icelanders took more of their own initiative than was expected? It is true that it will be examined. Then I'd like to step into class 25.1, nursing and living space. It says, by permission of the president, There's only 1,000 million. K. By means of a temporary increase in the daily pay paid for nursing homes, there is a price to be given to the seminary. Of course, we know all the details of this story and often regarding the condition of nursing homes and their management conditions. It has been a long time before that the cost of daily living does not depend on the costs of the operation. Thus, the change in age and the extent of the people of these households that they are now weaker than they were some years ago is often misleading. As for this, I'd like to say, there's probably very little in our society that's more predictable than the nation's advanced age. If this is the case, one way in which men in charge of these matters slept on their guard is, of course, very serious. I think it's much more likely that the binoculars were put in front of the blind eye, and people decided not to deal with the problem they faced. The billion here are absolutely necessary, just to give those companies who are still working on this market and rural groups who have not quit their service contracts, to have some chance of treading nightmares to the time when some intelligent approach will be on this level, because it is based on a report by a group made by Gylfi Magnússon, former minister, prior to and returned to Ministers not long ago, that the whole system is not sustainable. Of course, this is a number of factors, but it has been in progress for a long time and has progressed, that the inmates are older and more ill when they enter the nursing home. These developments do not fall from the heavens, so I encourage the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics to speed up the work as possible which is left here, which is actually set up as conditions for the rise, with the permission of the president: The divorce rate for the increase is that nurses of nursing homes agree to a two-month extension of their service contracts until the end of February 2022. Thereafter, the annual pay will be increased for the current year, but the increase will resolve at the beginning of the next year. The text could hardly be written in any way at all. Therefore, it is a direct flaunt here that is not subject to extending the contract, which is designed to suck all life and money from within these institutions, that they may receive nothing. But if you go along that way, the pay will be increased for the current year, but the increase will go back at the beginning of the next year. Of course, there are some contracts that are being negotiated, but the experience shows us, unfortunately, that it is rarely, if ever, that such agreements are made on schedule and not at all treaties that the Ministry of Health has to do with these years, certainly not. They can only refer to expert doctors and the situation that exists there. So I want to challenge the health authorities and the Ministry of finance to handle this matter more quickly than has recently been. It continues with the permission of the President: ▪ Iceland's Medical Insurance Association with Nurses Hospital is completed at the end of the year and is working on contract objectives for the next contracts. It's June time. The contracts go out at New Year's. Work is about to start the contract plans for the next contracts. In the meantime, the system will be more or less all going on holiday and it'll be chosen and I don't know what. There is no evidence to suggest that negotiations will be completed in time so that some combination will occur in these areas. This is where I'd like to make a brief entry to unit 11, transportation and communications. There are not large numbers, but the prince's finger may be larger. It suggests that the budget of the topic field will be increased by 120 million, and as follows, by permission of presidents: It is estimated that the legal legal rights of the tribe will be increased by about 120 million. K. due to the temporary support of the state of the United States on the bus. caused by the effects of the chorionic virus. The bus is owned by the rural communities in the capital area, with the largest public transportation business in the country, whether in the country's choice or in the number of passengers. Each year, there are some 8697 billion dollars. Since 2012, the state funds have strengthened the bus's bus. approximately 900 million. K. This year, on the basis of a contract for a 10-year experiment to further public transport in the capital area. Because the chairman of the legal committee here is standing in the doorway and I expect the case to be referred to there, it would be interesting to consider whether this agreement has been extended recently, whether the state has been bound for continued payment, 900 million a year, on the basis of the 2012 contract. There are two stories of it. I've heard the most. A travel minister argues that the contract was extended, but then I have received an answer from another source. Just so the committee examined the progress of the case whether this contract was extended and how that decision was made, since it makes a big difference to me in this context. But at the end of my talk, I'd like to think that the government here is adding support to the Bus house. and we're doing the whole system right now. There are a lot more critical than this financial investment. But it does not change the fact that this was a contract made, a so - called transport contract for the capital area signed on September 26, 2019, reminds me that it was. It clearly shows that treaties view the government's support of public transportation in public transport. There is no way to get a representative of the local community to confirm the understanding, which is presented in the leading list more of the legal committees in connection with the bill that allowed the establishment of a better syllabus, which is responsible for the work, the transport contract, and the building of a so - called city line. In this subsequent committee party, it is clear that the construction of a city line and related factors does not take the lead in a government fund. However, trying to get representatives of the local community involved in the contract to confirm that understanding is not working well, and it is certainly not a representative of the city of Reykjavík. So all I want to do is beat the novice here to the budget board. The secretary of finance and the heads of state, do not be drawn into the swamp to open to the impenetrable which the business of the so - called city line will likely be, if one day the project becomes reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u73	Madam President. Even though it's not in this bill for financial purposes, it was remembered. A member of the press and the government's arrangement to provide private aid to the media and indicated that I felt that half of which were being made Kingdom workers from the media on the private media. It has been the case of the Middle Class here so that they may be under the State's heel or something like it. I'd like to ask you what. From that: Does he really think that, based on the support system as it is in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, especially the media, in Finland? Are all the media there in favor of the public and just following some public line on how to do news transfers and the like? I think it's a little important. The extent to which the government produced the process can be criticized, which was, in fact, the least and the worst that could be taken out of the media system in other northern countries. But I wondered if this compromise is going to work, that strengthening the private person with public funds makes them somehow dependent on the official in some inequities or in an objective way, in the way that they change their methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, journalists are just ordinary people, such as members of the Parliament, different ones, and various kinds. So are the owners of the media, and of course editors. It is impossible to set a metering bar on what causes changes in behavior. It's only human nature. I took this example of the media in relation to the public welfare organizations I mentioned in my talk, and I developed a tendency towards a country of more aspects of society than I consider reasonable. The fact that countries, putting their private media on the state beds in the way they did, I think it's unsatisfactory, as though I've done a lot of speeches. There are a number of better ways to do things in general, tax, and other ways. Also, reducing the complexity of the environment in which the media operates. I understood a question. A senator would be asking about individuals, the mediamen themselves, not the companies. I'm in no position to tell if this affects them. I think it's very unwise, and in this context I refer to the media grants that are recently released here, that we do the same way as the public interest companies do, not with the tax environment or the strength, but with putting them in this format of common writing, so they all have to approach matters in a comparable way, because they are as different as individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u75	A respectable president. We buy certain services from various public welfare companies to handle certain rights, e.g. To the state. The media also do so in a sense, so it is good to conclude that the media cannot be bought. I think that's the last thing they'd think they'd do that would be done, even though the government bill is, in the direction of reducing the uncertainty that the owners have to sign on the slopes of their journals. Based on interference with editorialism, etc. I have full faith in the reporters themselves, there's an interesting difference. Just to the city line. Hv. A senator also spoke of a city line, whether it would ever become a reality, etc. I wondered again, based on all the options we have had in transportation in the capital area, why should we choose a path other than the city line, based on the results of the options we have seen? True, we need to progressively adapt to changing technologies and such things, but there is no evidence that this precise distribution does not depend on technological innovation and more in that direction. All other options available were more expensive and did not accomplish so much. I wondered why the opposition would be like this if there are no data to refute all the options we already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u76	Madam President. I'm gonna let me shoot at you a little bit. A senator, although he is not able to return to an answer, I'll do it gently. Hv. You see, a senator has set aside a number of details of the laws on public finances and so on the streets. I've always felt completely incredible, so I'll say it right now, to the what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson does not require any more of the project called the city line for which the programme is concerned. With regard to this whole project, it is totally unclear how practical the budgets are the way it is, but there is no programme available to support it. That's what I was doing. The financier, secretary of finance, and us here, the heads of state, the Generals, must not allow us to be lured into the fact that there will be an open crisis in this regard. If I had more time than here, I could long question the alternative options and why they would be better than the modern konsept in the form of a city line. They would be less expensive, more secure traffic flows. Surely, it would not be to ten of the same flow of bus as in the city line, but the overall picture is a much better option than the giant project, which, of course, is a very vague idea yet in many respects, which may seem to be of any value, affecting the flow of traffic needed to drive people out of the family car into public transportation. We in the Middle East do not agree with that approach. [[The president calls.]] We don't like her, and the worst part about her is that she's financially irresponsible, so I say again that I've had a very special naturehv. þm. Björn the son of Gunnar has had little interest in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u77	President. I'd like to pick up a little bit from a talk. The senator, who made up the publicity of a nursing home and their financing. In the program and in the billions of homes, he did well to review what he has to say. Hv. A senator also did well in overcoming what I am saying. A senator is a somewhat peculiar methodology at the board, enforcing this budget, and almost saying, "If you don't listen to this, you won't get this contribution. That this money is put in there is worth a lot of money. However, the case of those who run these homes, whether private or rural, has been highly established that they cannot live up to the standards of service made by a surgeon, so that most of these homes provide less service than is required of them. Their primary response is the lack of financial support. What I wonder is, " How is it that men don't deal better with this problem, because now he's been there so long? ' I wondered if there may be any reason why a section of these households is in private business on a daily budget from the state, whether it is possible that there might be some policy in running these homes all more and less in the state's arms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I have to answer the question raised at the end of the counter response in such a way that I feel that all the parts of the community are all private business, owned by private members, and driven on the terms of private members and private failures of many times and times, and those elements in some way in which the agreement with the state seems to have very few advocates within the government that now serves. Those handling matters in behalf of health - care ministers are thus under way that it is being tried to establish all of this in one way or another. I'm afraid that the variety of forms of residence and aging worlds will all somehow be exposed to these trajectories offered at the hands of the government. Of course, it is not new and can certainly be found ways to do something more effectively in the business of these households. But when home is up to date, there is no room for agreement and the ability to reorganize procedures, and so on, in the streets, very limited. Then, of course, these homes are assigned to shorten the work hours of employees on the basis of contracts when over a hundred thousand are out of work. No wonder this is the situation today! So again and again, so I answer the question, I'm afraid that feeling goes wrong. The senator is correct, that this is particularly bad because part of the enterprise involved is in private business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that this suspicion will always be more permanent and consistent in one's mind, that there is some kind of tendency to produce very political goals in the role of the State and which should be the role of the individual enterprise, and that this is part of increasing the share of the State. I wanted to go into everything else. That may not exactly be the subject of this financial bill, but in terms of public projects, public investments. It has long been said that we are in so - called inner debt, and we share nothing that there is much there. But what I've often been thinking about and sometimes talking about is what we're having a bad time to do at least an auction, on the shelf, so that we don't always have to go about--and now I always say, it's probably not quite fair but very often and too often, especially when these projects need to be applied, these investments in order to try to subtract. Then we have such a long career that it doesn't usually start until it might be wise to get on the brakes. I know how to do it. A senator or some explanation for why this is so? I specifically took note of the financial Council's review of these plans all, so they missed the fact that there was more concern in these matters. Well, maybe. A senator is merely a member of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u80	Madam President. I'd especially like to thank you for this counter to the fact that this is a very important matter. A senator comes in here. Of course, this is not to say that such projects can be loaded. There may be reasons not to have a work designed entirely to the finish, ready to be sent out on a shelf. But I've been counting, I've talked about it for a long time before I came into this political field, that the state's institutions, whether the State's receipt or the Road program, the vast majority of the publishers of this campaign, should have a fixed number of projects that would be all up to that end, when it would have to achieve economic goals similar to those of the opposite sex. A senator came in. But part of mankind's being reluctant to approach matters in this way is, in fact, all this process, a needle assessment of environmental impact, and related tasks in which agencies say, and sometimes rightly, that only changes in the various aspects of the book design and so forth are allowed. That is why it is too much an investment to be in such a state. There is now room to treat. The Environment and Transport Committee has changed laws on environmental impact assessments, which I think are an improvement, although I think it would be desirable to go further on the Agency's alertness. But this is a point that I think we have to take on right away for the next term, because it's exactly like that. A senator describes this; projects are probably not ready for tenders and projects until it is too late, even in violation of economic goals for this particular project. The explanation, however, is likely primarily that the principle is too changing, too short. There is evidence that organizations do not trust to have available invitations, finished work as a shelf product.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u81	Madam President. I come here for a second speech to discuss the financial affairs of the state. I've allowed myself to do this in a little more context than just the money money. They are no more than confirmation of what has already been determined and can be said that it is good to have it done with funds. For a time it was looked like it would not be done; it should be done through reserves and such transfers. It's very good that the government saw itself, or the highest. Secretary of the budget, and put in a bill for a budget. This is the last budget of the government involved in the financial affairs of the state. The five - year schedule has recently been completed, and it was very discussed. It turned out as usual that I didn't listen to the group I belong to, and I know that all other groups of government are exactly the same. The government's work has been to listen to good ideas or at least to listen to them. To attempt to make some of them their own. True, she spends very often taking them and making them her own name and moving them in her own name later. But it's just as it is. What I just wanted to do in this talk is a thing I think is a lot of thought in the economy. That's what's in real estate right now. There's a lot of stuff in there. Maybe that's about at least that government, perhaps others, are guilty of it too, that she has not taken that class firmly enough. The government has been putting various measures into the system, putting on it a variety of patches. People are being encouraged, and have been done even. in the time of this government, to buy houses. This has been done by providing tax relics, e.g. by making use of the special share cut, the set up of so-called share loans, and the rates of loans have been increased. As a result, real - estate markets are increasing, and more people see the potential for housing. The demand is affected by all of this, and as we know and do not have to say so many words, the supply and demand for housing have not been balanced. Then, in addition to the decrease in interest of interest, there were a lot of decreases, as well as a lack of good things we know, but in any case, they fell dramatically. It still increased the pressure on this market, and many young people in particular wondered that this goose would have to be taken while it was being given up. Now there would be ideal conditions for entering, for interest rates low, for loans high, and for use with tax charge. This results in a further increase in the pressure in the system. Then the other smells like this, we've already begun a growth process again, which will lead to many who are too excited about the arc or at least Very high in order to get into the market will be the result of a growing payload of loans and interest rates, and larger interest is still predicted. As a result, this market is under pressures in many respects to the home environment. The latest thing is that the latecomer has already provided a bill that gives me an additional tool to stop the market, to row the market, to remind me that the bank manager has said. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Suddenly, people may feel that the rates of loans are severely reduced. [[The president calls.]] I feel that it is a very serious matter and a bit of a government offense not to have a better perspective on the cause and the consequences of all of these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u82	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u83	A respectable president. Two as good as any. In his speech, a senator mentioned how interesting it was to pause. First he spoke of the funds and that this was a financial bill, although the sound was not like that. This was to be handled by law and reserves, etc. It involves the division of power we have here, that the funds are here at a council where there is access to information about the cost of action that the government is going to take, the price of their success. All that needs to be explained is in this discussion area with available documents for the public, but otherwise it's hidden in the administration, and no one can really do anything to determine whether or not we're going to take good action. Then it's a matter of nature whether we're gonna get the information over our heads. So it may be understandable that the European Commission generally feels that they simply want to skip the Council. When the government decides to take action beyond what is legal, it is extremely important in a democratic way to bring in a petition for financial authority and explain why the measures cost so much. The bills we received for the others and these actions were a measure of cost, but we did not really know whether they were being taken off the current budget or whether they would have a greater impact that would have to be paid for or what. There, the overall context was really sustainable in public finance, which is also beneath. Last year, I wanted to do a little story about it with a little bit of what it was. A senator, about the importance of respecting the boundaries of the house, about where the funds really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, it's all a little weird, and it works a little bit on you like it's being approved after they've actually happened in this way. All of us know of this discussion that the plans for a new government law were that the sum of money would be no more unless there were some extreme circumstances. Of course, you have full compassion because circumstances have been very peculiar and in some respects difficult. But I agree completely that there must be a little more demand for the company that, at the outset - certainly, it can be difficult, I don't want to detract - is better outlined as to what is being proclaimed to be done. I think it would be more convenient in such a situation that the sources are given just the same, that we have more money in such a condition, so that the council could weigh and determine whether the funds assigned to a particular project are well spent. It is our job to try for proper control of the situation. This role will be carried largely by means of these techniques, because what should be done if a person passes the budget bill? Where are they standing? Then, at least there is a theoretical possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u85	President. That's exactly what I raised on unpublished financial authority this morning. In an uncertain situation, we know that we have to deal with unemployment and health problems, etc. We can conclude that it costs 20 billion, but we do not know exactly how we will respond to it because the situation is changing so quickly. I was wondering if it would be unnatural for the executives to say that the magnitude is 20 billion and that we need to do about that. these actions, although the scope of each procedure is not known. It is so accepted and later explained the scope of each procedure, without any need to be made as a matter of special assembly, or even as a law bill, which has an expense assessment where this unpublished document is referred. It can work that way, it's at least in the right order. The other thing I'd like to cover with a bang. A senator is the interest debate. A senator mentioned. We're in an environment where interest rates are rising. I hope they don't do it much more, it's such a little step back. However, the prospect of walking may also grow stronger and respond to it so that there are both positive and negative signs. True, we have turned from unscrupulous loans, but as bad or insurance loans are insured loans by variable interest rates even worse because there is a good decision behind changes in the interest rate compared to the pricey interest rate. While there is a relatively beneficial process on how insurance loans change with regard to the index price of consumer prices, there is no standard process behind loan decisions on how GDP develops and a relatively oscillating process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If something is, they're worse. [[The president calls.]] People can make it grow, but it's not very common, it's also a bet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. This is a very, very, very, very, very big case, which in itself is complicated and at the same time simple. I'm sorry, I don't share a optimism. A senator says that the increase in interest will not be much more than that. I believe, and indeed, that it is more prophets than I am in the financial system, that growth will rise and go up to 3% on the next cycle, which is a natural tremendous rise in interest and is greatly affected when it is so large that it is shown by a number of sources. But this reflects the fact that here we do not talk about the most important things. How is it that we have such a complex growth environment? We have insured and disloyal loans. Hv. A senator mentioned that hopefully it will be stronger. Yes, it is strengthened at regular intervals and is weakened at regular intervals. And all of this causes fluctuations, causing Iceland and I to pay what is often called Iceland's financial burden. This is the pressure for us to choose to carry out our own currency, which simply costs money. Of course, this is the most important cost, and in order to get it into an intelligent way, you need to attack the problem rather than focus on trying to Band-Aids and trying to make good of things that everyone knows will eventually fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I want to thank him for taking up the real estate discussion. A lot of things like that. A senator came in, I think, was right, and the important thing to do. But there was one point. A senator didn't say anything I'd like to ask him about. Last night, the U.S. Radio site, U.S.R.is, was under the headline: Encourage rural areas. The story was developed from an apartment needs analysis by the Homing Agency, which was released last week. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The House and Managing Agency's health department encourages rural development of property so as to meet unfilled domestic needs, which has rarely been more than present. This story came in yesterday. I want to grab down another story that says: According to his new monthly report, local communities, especially in the capital area, may, with a concerted effort, reduce the pressure on real estate prices with increasing property distribution. The first story I read from last night. The second report I read from appeared on January 12th, 2005. The situation today is just as much as it was in 2005 in the capital area. We know how this story has developed, and based on the housing needs analysis of the Homing and Managing Agency, there is still an enormous accumulation of lack. If we all accept that view as a matter of course. A senator rightly made a difference in this context for a moment, looking only at the factor that turns toward distribution, depending on the nature of the problem. A senator could handle these matters here in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u88	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. This is a subject that has been difficult for us. It is as if the overall vision of this market was very limited. Hv. A senator mentioned a news transfer. In recent years regular news has been made that the workers of the Industrial Association sit in cars and drive around and try to guess, by looking at building points, what's in the pipes. I think this is a very clear example of our failure to look at the overall picture and see what causes the fluctuations in a real estate market. Of course, it should be obvious, you would think, considering what we know about how many babies are born and how big the seasons are, and how they are all there is, that men could plan these things better. Clearly, it does not completely match sound and image. If this is the case, and I won't question the news as long as I can. A senator refers to, is it not strange, then, that governments should be at the same time, when they are well aware that they lack apartments, take action to stimulate that people go into this market that cannot accept it? Of course, that's very bad economics. Here, the government and the government are primarily responsible for these financial matters. But I'm not gonna slow it down, but I'm gonna have to, of course, stick to it. Clearly, it has not been the best choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u89	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is good to review this needs of the Industrial Association, performing an apartment count, which can be said to be simply unbelievable that it was needed in the first place. It's one thing and another, it seems to you, who are being tried to do in the human working outside system that is supposed to make this better, but it's taken an amazing time, and the company of industry deserves credit for its task. Indeed, it can be done that rural society and the state must share responsibility for housing conditions. However, the situation is more serious, and there is no evidence that we can establish a simpler period of activity, just according to which areas are scheduled for distribution in the future and how the population development is going to develop. Although this is not the subject of a bill for the budget, it still counts in the overall picture we're looking at. I've been skeptical of the policy of the country's largest rural organization, Reykjavíkurburg, in a number of hours, which has come to the fore in particular at the so - called condensation plant. I think, and the senator will correct me if I'm wrong, that the Reunion is interested in making the Sunway, I've understood that way. See what? A senator realizes that a practical and good construction site can be opened here by means of a Daffway, where it will be placed, which could lighten the pressure on the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u90	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. I'll admit, I haven't really wondered if an ideal building site would be created by the Dizziness Way. But when I try to visualize it in my mind, it may well be. Experience is usually that of extending by means of transportation, that is how it is. I would think that evolution is nothing incredible. It's also true, first of all. A senator asked about the Sunway itself, that we feel that we are most desirable in this fine path. But we have also noted this, and our subject may have been mentioned earlier, that it was spoken of long before I moved to Reykjavík long ago when it was desirable to engage in this kind of operation. Somehow, we haven't been able to get it to the full. But hopefully this country has begun to be seen so that it can be carried out. I think it's for many things very good, both for the capital, and also for the west, that this will be reality. I am convinced that this will bring benefits to the areas close to us and, in fact, the community as a whole if it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u91	Madam President. Most of what appeared in this bill for funding are things that were supposed to be totally predictable in the processing of budgets. It has become quite a challenge for governments, despite a relatively recent financial law, to pile up all sorts of unsolved cases on the bill for financial support rather than to make them part of the overall picture in the processing and approval of budgets. Almost all the details here could be predictable in the budget, and you must wonder: " Why is this work being done? Is this a factor that the government wanted to draw in particular in the process of elections and to let them go deliberately in the budget, or are these the points they see why they're adding now because they're getting electiond? In any case, even if each case is covered, it is hard to find a case that the government should not have been able to provide during the financial work. There is, however, something more. First of all, in the context of the fact that the largest budget force will apply to September 30, 2021, that is, until five days after election. It is likely that the last day of the month will go better than that of September 26. Nevertheless, there is very little to it about how to solve the situation and how to handle the workforce, how to solve it in the future. We have just discussed the financial plans of the government, and this is a very limited view of the future. Yet, you can read a few things from this bill to a budget. For example, and I mention it because I thought it was very vivid, in the section on transportation, showing that it was up to 120 million. K. in support of the Bus, a society mainly owned by Reykjavíkurburg and, in fact, several other rural communities. Clearly, the government did not provide financial problems to deal with the budget and to add 120 million. K. in a special strength to the bus. But why does the government support the Bus, which is, as I mentioned, principally owned by the city of Reykjavík? Why is the government running for the city of Reykjavík, where money seems to be ruined after a very poor treatment of public funds in that town? Why does the government see why it is necessary to help some of the other parts of Reykjavík with financial contributions? It's something peculiar. This, however, serves as a reminder of what is to be expected, for ten years ago, a clean left government decided to support his fellow army in Reykjavík by giving a billion dollars in support of the bus for a decade by means of a so - called test project. In addition, the city received the fact that it would not have to take on other significant transport improvements for a decade. Actually, it would have been normal if this had been the other way, that the state had been paying to attack the improvements in the urban transport workers that have been stopped today because of the mayor's more important section for many years. On the other hand, the State decided to strengthen the city by a billion a year; however, it agrees that, at the same time, there would be no significant improvement in transport in the capital area, though they had already become extremely driving. It was a strange arrangement, Madam President, but it has now been. A secretary of transportation reported that although the experiment did not succeed, to extend it and to continue to give that strength to the city. And then these 120 million are added. You see, it was a test project. It was claimed that this could result in a rapid increase in the number of passengers in the United States. I remember there was supposed to be an increase in number from 4% of tourists in the capital area of 12%. When the project began, the percentage was 4%, and when it ended ten years later, it was 4%. Nevertheless, this government decided to continue the experiment project that failed completely. Thus, the 120 million additions now give us a clue as to what will happen in the relations of the state with the city of Reykjavík regarding a so - called city line, for when the government decided for an incomprehensible reason to make a pact with the mayor of the more important part to support that project of 50 billion dollars. To begin with, there was no room for the total cost or the cost of operating. Of course, it is not okay for governments to cast 50 billion on a project that is unclear how much money will cost, and no one has an idea how much money it will cost to run. We have seen that similar projects in many foreign countries have frequently exceeded even a high - cost schedule. In fact, it is not even for a final cost plan. Nevertheless, the government decided to throw this 50 billion in the first place by not knowing what the State will be in the second phase of the project when the cost of going ahead of schedule or what the share of the State will be in the operation of this city line. Yet, here we have a clue. Ten-year experiment with government grants to the bus didn't work out. It is extended, and it is added to 120 million to strengthen the city in particular in this respect. So that we can just imagine what it will be, and if this city line of work goes off and goes way out of plan. Then comes the business, operates on a double bus system, which means that there will continue to be a traditional bus system going around the neighborhood to bring people to the city line, and thus the cost is much higher. We can only imagine if the government will not continue to finance the business after taking much of the account on a forwarding project. You see, I think it was, perhaps, a financial committee, the more part of a World Transport Committee was needed to fit in that it would not necessarily be that the government would carry the cost of business. It was part of a council contract here that would never have gone in there unless it was for the sake of the Central Party's claim. However, it says a story that would have had to be forced in advance that it was not by the government's means to finance a business. Here we see yet another clue as to what is going on in the matter like that of others. Of course, we can see this in many matters. We see this in a recent case, which will transform the environment of trust here, and is obviously meant to increase the cost greatly as many as it is, probably ten times the number of people to begin with, will have the right to do the same service no matter how they came to the land as trustmakers, they will be granted a permit here, the right that is granted to the people we have determined to do well and accept. It increases the number of people entitled to the same thing as at the same time, evidently increasing the appeal. But it is simply overlooked that this involves some expense. Actually, I asked the highest. Secretary of finance to this and have done so twice. I thought he'd rather address my concerns, but then nothing happens, so the system just keeps going on its course and ministers and members of the greater part will meet here conscientiously and press the green button and agree with everything together, despite the predictable fact that things will not be the way they are set up and will involve an increase in cost. How often will the council have to go through the bill to the budget, where they are being added to save the city line or to add to the alleged unforeseeable costs because Iceland has been marching across the North countries with its restitution system? Is it acceptable, in the opinion of the Generals, that the government will be conducted in this way in government matters? I don't think so. I'm not talking about a lot of predictable expenses like the ones that appear in this bill and the examples I've mentioned here in comparison. Madam President. I'm not going to trace every aspect of it, but I don't have time to do it. However, I would like to use this opportunity to reiterate what I only came in earlier and with regard to the biggest cost force involved, which are professional or unemployment benefits. The government has no future here. This is another provision plan. But after September 30, how can this be solved? You can't create jobs in Iceland, so you can create valuables unless the company's work environment is working properly. But the work of the Icelandic enterprise, in particular in smaller and medium-sized enterprises, has continued to get worse, including Under the leadership of this government, where it is extremely difficult to run, I'm not talking about creating a small business because of the burden of all the rule and the negative or hard economic motivations. As a result, these issues will only be solved by improving the work environment of the Icelandic enterprise so that they are increasingly trusting in recruiting people and seeing reasons for accepting the work. There is clear evidence that the way governments have approached this issue is not clear to the fact that it is difficult for many to get people to work at the same time as unemployment is the same. It's a matter that should have been solved already that we're not in the situation when it expires a few days after the election's election start. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u92	President. I have the same criticism as the other. A senator in charge of the labour market action, that they will finish off immediately when elections are held. I think it's totally crazy. I can't figure out how political it is that the government isn't ready to come here to talk to the whole council about how we can at least... had some kind of continuation over elections until perhaps some political stability has come again. Enough about that. I'm gonna put my songs in the cross and just go to the city line, because it's so fun to chat about the city line with the middle party that doesn't have a point in it. You see, it is so remarkable that this schedule they always say is missing. There's no question about how much cars are costing a living. It is still being accomplished - the process that will never be complete, that is, always being adjusted only for what new neighborhoods are building up and what may have a slight impact on a management plan. So the current programme is not the final program, and it will never be because of developing here in the capital area. The problem that I think we'll always forget to point out is that city line runs out in 10 to 15 years. After the 10,915 years, we will have tens of thousands of more inhabitants in the capital area, 40,000 more say some programs. It's in the environment that the city line works. If we were to wait to find a solution like the city line, we would be in much more trouble at that time and would not respond in any intelligent way because it was simply too late. So, yes, the city line would not work so well as the situation now, but after ten years with 40,000 more people, it would only work very well, much better than all the other solutions available; more lanes and so forth would be much more expensive; the train stuff would be much more expensive, and it would not produce the same results. The city line was the best solution to the options available, and a management plan was included in these optional analyses. It was the best solution, most effective in transporting people from territory to territory. So I don't understand why the middle class is against the practical use of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u93	Madam President. I'm impressed. A senator wrote merely optimistically that it will develop in a way that in a few decades, it will be like Amsterdam or somehow completely like a city. The problem is that this city line structure is not suitable for the type of city in Reykjavík. This could be suitable for much more urban areas. Such an arrangement may be the most common in cities in South America. However, similar systems are commonly installed in cities much more densely populated than in Reykjavík. The nature of the city is not about to change to the extent that it will become such a city. But even in cities where such systems should be much more practical to run such systems, as mentioned above, or such a city line, these systems are frequently a great source of comfort in city planning and even financial support. So even in suitable cities, it is very expensive. You can imagine the cost here, I'm not talking about in the experience of the bus where only 30%, perhaps up to a third of the business costs, comes into the form of the pay paid to use the ministry. I'm not saying the government should stop strengthening public transportation, not at all. In fact, they can be run only with the support of taxpayers. But tax costs need to be used well, and this is not done by driving twice the bus system and the extremely unfavourable old city linemat.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u94	President. First of all, it's not a double system. The systems work together, city line and bus. They will be fast cars, in effect, similar to those who are now, replaced by them. So it's not much different than it's already, unless there's more special lanes. Hv. A senator came to see the need to pay with public transportation. Yeah, it's costing money. It'll always cost something, that's right. The other ways were more expensive. That is in the optional analysis we had. If we had gone to build even more lanes, the cost would have been more than the cost of running public transportation. This is the choice of how much money we're going to pay. Are we going to pay a lot of money, like for the city line or even more money that would have gone into the other projects? If so, we do not have the option on different options. Then we would have just one option that's relatively limited for a lot of people, e.g. Students who I find interesting to do. In his talk, a senator would speak of some kind of strength in the city of Reykjavík to strengthen Stótto, for a vast number of passengers are students who come from neighboring communities. Inside, there are Kópavogur, Hafnarfjörður, Garðar, and Mosfellsville, a bus that takes a lot of people to and from Reykjavík. So it is just as much support for the neighboring communities that are just the ones who have agreed to enter the city line. Each of them has examined this choice and have said: "This is the best solution. Everyone did so except the Central Party and the Independence Party in Reykjavík. All the other independent groups around the city said that this was the best solution, the best option for public use. There's a lot of things in here that don't go through with the language. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u95	President. The big problem, the largest in economic evaluation. One senator is that he seems to assume that the city line will lose weight on the road and if the city line is not attacked, the road system will have to be increased so much more. In fact, the city line is designed to narrow the road. In fact, a report by a Danish advisory company who worked on the preparation of the project shows that the demand for transportation, such as this city line, was limited in Iceland or here in the capital area that it would have to make other alternative options less inaccesible or less accessible, in other words, to squeeze toward traffic, as it is a more defined goal. By taking one lane in each direction of main transportation, there will be a sharp turn toward other traffic, so that those trapped in their cars who have to pay the city line with tax charges or special taxes, as planned, will remain trapped much longer than the city and its independence groups, at the same time. One member of the local community hopes that people will simply give up on the traffic jam and be forced to go to the city line. Here, the independent groups around Reykjavík are on the consumer control to the point of forcing people from the family car into the immensely unfashionable city line of work that the State will then be living on with other road users to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u96	V.E.G. President. There is a turning point in this discussion, since there is plenty to be taken. My member members of the Central Party have covered many factors, and I have the goal of focusing on what is involved in the health system. First, I want to say that there are 300 million extracurricular services that are not unnecessary when we see that most of them are moved here to the capital area where health care is needed. I'm just gonna think here about some thoughts about the health care department and that's the best course of my life. Healthcare Minister to promote a so - called phase 1 service there. The plan is to add 200 million because of mental health problems, which is to face the effects of the Korean virus. So these 200 million are to be part of the 600 million laid down because of the epidemic and particularly its influence on children and young people. V.E.G. Healthcare Ministers have established a multidisciplinary psychiatric team for children working nationally on treatment, advice and support. These groups are designated as secondary service in the clinic and in the clinics. According to this, it is quite informative to review an answer at the highest. A minister I recently received because of a question I asked about a waiting period and the status of mental - health professionals. I felt that there was good reason to ask such a question, since we see more and more frequently in the news talking about an increase in feelings of distress, both in older ones and in younger ones. We will also be aware that the period of waiting was extended, long before the Korean epidemic. But then it's been added to a waiting list. That is why I decided to reflect on the state of mental - health professionals throughout the country or on what set of standards we would have of mental - health professionals around the country. So far, I've only asked each council members about status and waiting hours for psychologists, but now I add psychiatrists to my question. So I asked about the mental - health status of mental - health professionals and how many standards would be needed to ensure adequate service. I also asked how many standards had been published last year. I also requested information about where no applications were received. I had all the health institutions in the country up to these questions, i.e. National Institutes of Health, the National Institutes of Health, the Southland Institute of Health, the Western Health, the Western Health Organization, and the health care of the capital area. There are rather striking findings in this answer, and I believe the full need to cross it here so that we can understand the picture we are facing. At the Eastern Institute of Health, there is a waiting period for mental - health services for about four months, where emergency priorities are important. The answer says that at the agency's office, the health care professional at 50% is at the discretion of a mental - health professional. One situation is considered sufficient to ensure services to the 11,000 people living in the East Health Organization. It is also stated in the statement that once a mental - health professional was advertised, and after the advertisement, one of the devices currently employed by the Agency was published. At the National Institute of Health, mental - health professionals are not offered the services of mental - health professionals, and the need for mental - health professionals depends on the care of the Akureyri Hospital. This holds to the hands, the cooperation of the North American Institute for Health at the Hospital in Akureyri. The National Institute of Mental Health has a mental - health professional at 20% and it is likely that a mental - health professional will be able to use the full state of the mental - health profession, but the National Institute of Health has only published a partial mental - health facility and received one application. It may be that this keeps hands on the fact that there's a hospital in Akureyri, but I don't know. At the Southland Institute of Health, a psychiatrist had a 40% employment rate, which has not been able to recover that position in March. So there is no psychiatrist's service there and therefore there is no waiting list. Health care of the capital area has been consulted for mental health advice but it has not been published by a psychiatrist at the agency for the past year. As a result, there is no waiting list at the health care center of Southnesja. The answer says that at the National Institute of Mental Health, it would be preferable to have one mental - health status, then to the local mental - health team, but it has not been published for a mental - health professional since 2019, and no one applied. In Vestrudum, a health care professional is not required, and in the opinion of the director, it is not considered to be necessary. At the Western Institute of Health, the waiting period after the first interview is up to three months or longer. It depends on the nature of the problem. The current psychiatric professional at the National Institute of Health at a 30% labour rate is desirable based on this waiting period for at least a mental - health professional ratio. Sixty percent. There was a mental - health professional at the end of 2019, at which point in 25% of the employment rate, which was increased to 30% in the last year. At the health care of the capital area, mental - health professionals are involved in multidisciplinary teamwork. They only come to the user service after they have been recalled. The waiting period for an interview with mental - health professionals is largely determined by waiting for the slave service of the Tuymen since the approval of a reference. The waiting time for the Thai service is four months for the mental - health team of the Eastern capital area, so to speak. To a mental health team west, it's three months and to a mental health team down South one month. It also says that once a person is in the assistance of a mental - health team, the waiting period for those who need an interview with a psychiatrist is one to two weeks, and since the services of mental - health professionals are cross-cut, mental - health professionals need to be changed. There is also a mental - health team in the health care of the capital area, and there is no waiting. That team works nationally, but it began to receive references to the April 1 team. There is also a mental - health team in prison, and there is no defined waiting period. The team works nationally. You can have an interview on the same day or within a few days, depending on your nature and assessment. There is also a mental - health team, Family Protection, who went into service last January. It also operates nationally. It is also the first experimental work being carried out between the health care of the capital and the mental - health services of Land Hospital, which are scheduled for three to four weeks. It is noted that in the mental health care of the capital area, there are now six psychiatrists in equal numbers, but it is predictable that they will have to be nine or ten to ensure adequate service. The status of psychiatrists has not been advertised to the group I spoke about here, but it is stated in my answer that last June, the decision was made that the health care of the capital area would establish national service counseling and the services of mental - health professionals that reach all clinics in the country. These include three temporary jobs until one year of age to strengthen the mental - health services in the capital area and to serve the country by means of telecommunications and visits. Three psychiatrists were adverted in 2020, but no applications were received until the beginning of the year and the appointment of one psychiatrist has been completed for 60 jobs since April 1. More mental - health professionals are being hired to provide this counseling service for the country. All of this makes me feel that the plan is to direct the treatment of psychiatrists and to use distant health care in the case of service to the inhabitants of the country. If there is an emergency, people must rely on the outside hospital services I mentioned here first and must be active at all the places around the country if we are to be able to rely on legal health services to function. I think it's important to get it into this discussion because I'm afraid that governments, governments, do not think enough of it. Today, we hear that the spiritual health of the people of the land, the younger and the elderly, is being considered inferior. If we consider that human mental - health professionals in the capital area are doing well, the question is, Where do doctors come from? In this case, if we talk about the capital area, where the pressure is intense and we know that shift work is very worn out, could it be from hospitals to clinic? It is now taking extra money into the health - care unit, especially within the mental - health centre, where shift work is not the same stress. Therefore, it would be interesting to examine the way mental - health professionals are treated and how they are in the hospitals and what the consequences might be if mental - health professionals are increasing in number. So it is with those who need the ministry, as well as with other employees. Finally, I would like to mention just a conclusion that doctors on health care were sending out that there is a greater strain on health care. There has certainly been increased financial support for health care, but it has been marked by earmarks. The doctors call for increased flexibility so that their health care can take care of the money they have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. The chairman of the story and the fact that he had such a narrow and clear focus on mental health in his talk. We certainly do not discuss them too often here in the hall. I just want to roll up with the senator. At the beginning of the ideal period, the restoration of the health system was announced, and certainly much has been won, but much has been achieved. Our mental - health issues call out to us as one of the ways in which we are not able to take it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's reaction to one of the recent news cases, which is the treatment of an eating disorder. We know that three years ago, the Land Hospital's eating team had to flee the White Band because of mold problems in their housing and has been in an incomplete temporary house in an unfinished hospital. I don't think any other disease would have been made to have any other such housing problem, except a mental illness that also weighs on young women. I think that's where we're looking at double prejudice in the system. As shown in the answer to the highest. The health secretary to the inquiry from the earlier person in the year is today a quarter less than that of five years ago. It is, as I say, in housing problems after having had to flee from mold. The number of people on the waiting list has increased by seven times in five years. Most of the five years are the ideal period that has now reached its completion, and the situation is that the hospital's eating team has been waiting for treatment from two to four months in 2017 to 18◯20 months now. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, "What does this priorities tell us? "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is very much concerned with this question. I know why. A senator has an excellent knowledge of this group of subjects, and I'm very happy if we can just shed some light on it and give us some time to discuss these matters here. Of course, the restoration of the health system was one of the big things when I first came in here, but it hasn't quite settled. Speaking of priorities, we've all been observing the tragic history of the eating team and worse, now we're building a new hospital, working on putting down a new treatment core, talking about laboratorys, etc., but there's nothing to do for those who need mental health care in this structure. The challenge team has been on a low level, has had to escape mold housing, and must now accept that a health - care provider's vision is that a mental - health service at a new hospital will be established in one of the old houses we know is more than just needed to settle. Anything else. A senator mentioned here would agree completely with me, too. It requires that prejudice be established and destroyed, even though it is growing in number and power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u99	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator will forgive me even if I stay in the same territory. It's a narrow topic field, but it's important. It's important that we talk about this. The answer I received to the highest level of inquiry. Prior to January or February, a minister of health served in the council, and there was a lack of tone. It sounded as if there was something the land hospital should solve, even though it is a service that should be available throughout the country and should be on the responsibility of the State to ensure that it is as good as possible. Happily, though, that tone changed when the cold reality came to the minister. In news of the release of the answer, the minister said that at last a week after the arrival of the day, he was going to call for a reform plan, a building program, from the Land Hospital on how to solve the emergency problems that plague Land Hospital today. I'd like to ask, because I know that this plan has been called up for information on the welfare committee, whether or not. A senator knows where that case is, whether there's been a conversation with the Ministry or if it's just somehow getting into the system. Now we have a budget in front of us, or a bill for them, that is to be covered with unforeseen expenses. Most of the expenditures are quite unpredictable, but let us assume that the extent of the eating disorder team problem has been unpredictable because it becomes clear first after the year in response to an inquiry. It reveals that in 2020, when a team is far too small, the cost of 55 million is at the hands of a team. Well, it's not any more money than that. [[The president calls.]] Why not suggest that you double that money this year to solve this crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again. It is true that, of course, you can take steps, and there are directors of health care institutions, whether it is Landspiral or someone else who takes the eating team, who is supposed to make sure that they get money, etc. But to answer that question with the plan, I can tell you why. A senator that I think that plan still hangs out in the Ministry, unfortunately. I'm sure the answer to this is now calling for this information and stepping down a little bit in order to get it out. I'd like to link this to a conclusion made by general family doctors, that earmarks are now being placed in the clinics, to build up mental health teams, including, I'm giving myself. At the same time, a minister in the palm of the hand is asking for the director of a land hospital to have some kind of earmark, e.g. to the eating team or other aspects of mental health. It'll be at least Being consistent with what people say and intend to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u101	Mr. President. I'm gonna go in the same direction as what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I know why. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir is far better involved in mental health than I am, and these are things that I find intriguing in these funds, and especially since about a year ago, it was approved by the National Institute of Health Care, Psychological Services especially, under the payment system of Medical Insurance. In the autumn, when a financial program was adopted, it was considered missing from the plan that the service was being paid down and that there was some news of the failure to obtain a favorable word from the highest level. Secretary of finance to pay for it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the light of the money being put on mental health care now, first of all, if it can only inform me of the state of psychic services in the payment system, and whether this is enough. I have a feeling it's not. These numbers are, in effect, striking low if you're trying to get your hands on this. I want to see if it's okay. A senator can help me get my arms around this thing, and then I think we can go a little deeper into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for this question. As far as mental - health services are concerned, Iceland's health insurance has gone to an invitation to the psychological services. When you read the first line of that broadcast, you'll be happy, but only for a while because you're reading it, and then I'm worried that it's just paying off the streets of those who have more sensitive rooms. It may be a good arrangement when we think of the capital area, but it gives me a lot of anxiety when I think about the country I always do because we often have a monopoly that wants to get into business and they can't take part in this assignment unless they go under someone else's hat. By then they have become a branch office, and we are back in this central business, which appears to be a characteristic of the health system. There's something else that happens. I'm very impressed that we're promoting the mental health team. I'm not gonna belittle it. But I'm afraid we're just moving the plug, so when you get into the first step and the mental - health team, which is certainly a different level, you need to be redirected. What if we don't have people there? Because that man has given up and he is now in the first phase of work. It's a bad circle.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u103	Mr. President. I was going to use my second answer to ask, because it's all temporary financial resources that are being given on the bill, whether it's a little strange, in view of the fact that, yes, there's more pressure on the Covid pandemic, but it's not as if the mental health issues have been well financed until now and quite looking at the need for this extra deposit to be permanent. But I have to say in the light of an answer. A senator who surprised me that I feel very serious if Iceland's health insurance has her outing career trying to run psychologists in a particular field of business. I agree with what happened. A senator said about the country area, but I'm also thinking of a requisition in Reykjavík, a single person in the capital area, that it's being made to make the knots that they're forced to unite in a larger room, many together or whatever. We know that there has been a lack of psychological services in other languages, especially for immigrants. Many Polish - speaking immigrants, for example, in Iceland have very limited access to psychological services in Polish. To force people into this arrangement, into a larger business, could cause a more specialized supply of psychology, or at least I'm afraid of it. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u104	V.E.G. President. I can truly agree with this, and we don't have to look very far back to see how the contracts with physical therapists were put in place. It was by any means possible to get them to work within or at larger units. The same is true if we discuss speech pathologists and all these independent experts, I'd like to say. We can also discuss experts who are not all here in the capital area, but while they do not make contracts, there is little hope that they will be able to choose a field of activity differently from entering a hospital. And like a cot. A senator came in so well with them, they cannot choose a career. Those in health care do not have much to choose. Here in the capital area, it is the medical centre or the Lands Hospital. This is the situation, and is it what we want? As a person, I may want to be able to consult with two, three different experts because everyone has a vision, and then I can make a decision. If we start dropping everybody and everything in the same tournament, we'll be stuck in the bottom of the silo. It's just what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u105	Mr. President. In these last days, the government has provided two key issues on financial matters, financial programs, and budgets. So they're burnt, both of them, so they're so light - headed on both cops that it's kind of grizzly. I'd like to draw special attention to one aspect of this financial bill, which is an extra treasure for nursing homes. It has been described by medical leaders that the amount listed here, about 1 billion U.S., may be up to one third of the accumulated angle available to these institutions. This is, therefore, like putting a head patch on a sponge wound and it will not do any good. There has been a government - controlled hunger policy regarding these care homes that care for the elderly. I think this is one of the causes of the distastefulness of health ministers in all non-market health institutions. As we know, nursing homes and aging institutions are driven by union organizations, privates, and rural communities and starving policy have led to the fact that rural communities have now given up and abandoned the nursing business. This has resulted in a significant decrease in pay expenses, which would reduce the services of the household. It has been observed repeatedly in the last few weeks and months. Now that this activity is seriously starving by humans, it is now time for the 1 billion that is enough for a third of what is needed. At the same time, it is announced that this activity should be taken, i.e. Its operation, for a careful consideration, and I can only see that it includes some hidden threat to government that these companies and households will continue to be beaten. This is, Mr. President, such as in the otherwise respect of the government of the elderly because in the last four years the government sector has proposed, e.g. Our middle class members, in each budget, in all the suggestions presented, financed, well considered, on legal matters for the elderly, e.g. The fact that commercial income is not a waste of pensions. It has been claimed to be so inaccessible. However, people have not looked to the level of income that comes with the use of such measures. First, it would save, for in later years the Icelanders become tax frauds, start working black because the so - called holiday goal we've been with for four years would be just funny if it wasn't so ridiculous and difficult. But this is not to be expected by the government of older ones, and there is no understanding that when the provision of older ones increases, this will contribute to their increased consumption. It is not enough that this group of people who want to work and can win the taxpayer's taxes will also be made up of the growing wealth that would inevitably follow such correction. In addition, Mr. President, it is quite clear that increasing the work force of the elderly and further into the lifetime reduces social isolation and is long - term prevention of failing health. This has been demonstrated through research, but the government does not care about that, and it clearly does not care about the elderly. Of the five issues established by the older citizen's Union today to the political parties before the election in the fall, it was particularly enjoyable to see that in three of the five cases, the Central Party has submitted a matter of Congress, not once but repeatedly. This includes things that elderly ones have suggested, a place to live between homes and nursing homes. In fact, there is one thing that has also been very neglected in recent years, possibly because there is a misunderstanding between rural society and the State, a so - called home service to the elderly, i.e. Family help and support for elderly ones who want to live in their own homes beyond their age. This has been totally prejudicial, and nothing has been done about it. Now, 15 minutes in the election, men jump to and pretend they're going to make some sort of correction, but they believe anyone who wants to. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] It's getting really hard to give this speech, Mr. President, in front of a hairsaver in the audience. [[The president calls.]] These factors all need to be considered, and setting a billion as a result is almost an insult to institutions that have taken over the past years and years in an effort to keep their work going. In fact, Mr. President, it has been heard that the most caring people called are talking about individuals - people - that they are attracted to taking in very sick individuals because money is not enough. At the same time, Mr. President, a large group of elderly people are stuck in hospitals and cannot get out because there is no way they can handle it. The sleep of a high - tech hospital is much more expensive than a nursing home or what was once called a nursing home, where people had support but were more and less independent in other respects. The Central Party will set out at the National Parliament a comprehensive policy under the motto from retirement to life, which will be a continuous policy on how to lighten the elderly throughout the lifetime, increase the effectiveness of groups in front of older years, and ensure that one step takes on another when they are older and they lose their health. This isn't so today, Mr. President. Today this is so as aging and aging diseases and other diseases cause them to lack a sense of cooperation in the ministry. They really need to fight for each step. It is shocking, Mr. President, to see how this generation is treated that is the main factor in the success of this society today, the most patient people in Iceland, people who are not moving ahead for themselves, they don't seek their own, if I may testify in the sacred book, but because these people are essentially modest and do not want to give up much. But there is no reason to have things as they are, Mr. President, and therefore, the Central Party has submitted over and over and over again, bills to correct and correct the position of this community group, which is very different, presented a bill after the bill and motion after proposal to correct this class but for the deaf ears. But now, 15 minutes before election, the management parties are going to try to decorate themselves with some feathers and try to set some course to correct the interest of the elderly and to do something for the benefit of society. It may well be that some of the elderly, who are now one of the largest members of Iceland, will believe in the fine language that is now going to tingle their ears in the last few months of this election's election season. But I'm just gonna say to this group, "Look out for fakes." When the Central Party introduces its plans, which will be right now, in addition to what the company has already put forward repeatedly here to correct the terms of this large group, I advise men to listen and I say again: Beware of imitations. As a society, we are disappointed in how we have treated the elderly for some time. We have watched that group as if it were just one foot long, and in recent years, we have often talked about the issues of the elderly and the desperate ones under one hat. There are totally different groups with different needs and circumstances, including individuals. This has not been listened to. This has not been seen, no direction upstairs, unfortunately, but it will be corrected. The company will put their hands on a plow, just as it is hoped and seen. This, Mr. President, was the primary subject of my first speech. I'm going to enter some more of the items that are involved in this financial bill, but I'm just going to offer a quarter of a election amount that could fit a third of the problem we're facing is almost insulting, Mr. President. I hope the government sees itself, and now that this bill goes to the Committee they're going to make a reform because it's very urgent, and we can't let the large group that built this country live with uncertainty in the old years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u106	Mr. President. Thank you for an interesting speech. I think I can fully agree with the main talk. A senator may be involved in some form of outward showliness on the part of the government just before elections. But at the same time, it says "w." A senator in his speech that he should guard against imitations indicates that he may be his class, likely, with a better approach on these topics. This made me think a little. As long as there are many important actions in this fund package, the texture of this is tiny, as if it were a small showdown for elections on the side of the board and being created with the image that they're doing better than it is necessary to consider. But at the same time, virtualness is a real problem in Icelandic politics. Parties are a bit of an effort to show off and convince voters about their own advantages. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of two. First of all, how does it feel to be able to cope with this sort of thing just with an unsurpassed wave of virtualism in Icelandic politics? And on the other hand, love what. It's normal for a senator to agree on the one hand, on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, that important action and privatism on the part of a government party on a budget just before the election?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u107	Mr. President. I'm very pleased with this opposite. A senator, and thank you for that. His words in this objection suggest that he had listened very carefully to the media presentation in recent years, and I am happy that he did so. It is true that me and the middle class have spoken specifically about the fact that politics is more than the content of much, unfortunately. Therefore, we have fought for the reason and reasoning we have been preaching and have shown with real solutions to problems, which, unfortunately, are far too rare in Icelandic politics. So I agree with what. A senator as far as this is concerned, it's just like talking out of our heart like that. But what can be done? Now, by permission of the president, I would like to quote the Bible, which says: "By the fruit you will recognize them. Hopefully, there will be a language based on reason and real solutions to the big problems, despite the gilding and showyness of the recruiters, e.g. as now, and may in a easier way present their cause than the government side knows and can. Now it's time for eating cutters and shoveling, and stuff like that. It is such a package that we must break through to make sure that the contents are clear to all. So I'm not worried, and we're going to continue to do that, Middle-class people, and I'm glad to hear that there's an interest in such things in other categories.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u108	Mr. President. Yeah, actually, you're right about what happened. A senator I've been tracking the Middle Party's lawsuit in the last few years. I think it was a little difficult to avoid it on chapters. And just in the context of this discussion of virtualism, it may be all right to remember that there have been several long speech gaps on the central Party that have cost tens of millions of people at high cost and generally because of issues that are not really up to the point of view. So showyness in politics is clearly something that we have, both in government categories and perhaps also in some political group. I remember, for example. a discussion about the third energy package, which promised that there would be a cable almost immediately, which I don't know to have arrived. It was also a long talk recently that was being criticized by city lines, usually on false grounds. But the goal was not to come here for a journalist campaign against the Central Party. There's plenty of time to do that later. But the core is that I don't know that any political party, including my own, is completely innocent of a certain precariousness. But here comes the government with a bill, in part very important, just before elections, and in part, it may be some showy show. I thought the answer was why. Not clear enough: How do we stop classes saying what suits them and doing what looks good without there's something real behind it, e.g. Facts?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u109	Mr. President. It's wrong now. A senator very badly. It is good, however, to have an opportunity to correct some of the points presented in his case in answer to those questions. He spoke of the millions of people in the Middle Class's alleged language. I'd like to point out that the person who has been assigned to the Council is the president of the Parliament, not the political party. And a discussion that may have stretched out for some night and over some days is not because one political party particularly wanted it. Rather, it was the decision of the president of the Senate at any given time to keep men on the subject as he did. On the other hand, there was no other choice for us middle class than to do it and to be here as long as the discussion had to be discussed. That's exactly wrong. In this discussion, a member of the council has claimed that there was a potential sea cable here. That, however, is very easy to do. Senator to see the effects of the third energy package, i.e. his approval, now today, e.g. Just by looking for an application to microinvolves and to pursue in windmill parks. It's just to correct it. Whatever it is. A senator spoke of, alleged filancy over the city line, he was right. We opposed certain aspects of the city line and will continue to do so. And what was involved in this filibuster? This was because today, the Allied council has a minimum denial against the destruction of this treasure of hundreds of billions of dollars in vain at the city line. So it was supposed to be a proprietor, huh? A senator and Mr President were certainly not in vain. This was so that the government's funds would have a position in this case, which is the first factor to be the highest. The secretary of finance mentioned when he was interviewed after this discussion. That's what the Central Party fought for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u110	Mr. President. Here I refer to the bill for financial contributions by 2021 where comments and explanations are made. It shows that 25th - century nurse and rehabilitation services are proposed to provide 1 billion dollars. By means of temporary increase in daily expenses to nursing homes. It says, by permission of the president: The divorce rate for the increase is that nurses of nursing homes agree to a two-month extension of their service contracts until the end of February 2022. Thereafter, the annual pay will be increased for the current year, but the increase will resolve at the beginning of the next year. Then, with the permission of a president, it is traced: ▪ Iceland's Medical Insurance Association with Nurses Hospital is completed at the end of the year and is working on contract goals for the next contracts. To strengthen the management status of nursing homes this year, there is an extension of contracts and a temporary increase in the amount of a day's pay. This allows for greater scope for reexamination on the basis of a nursing home management, which is based on, among other things, medical procedures. of the present - day analyses and extensions of the ministry I'm going to make this increase a little bit of a subject. Of course, there are other issues in the budget bill that need to be considered, including transport in Reykjavík. Then I expect there's a possibility that I could have a word with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy because he represents a party, which is a management party at the General Assembly, while a selected group at the scene of the city of Reykjavík, and goes there. with a very important seminary, a organizational matter. I'm gonna stick with the nursing and residence, at least. in the beginning. I'd like to say two things about this in the first place, two basic facts that are fundamental to those topics. On the one hand, the demographic fact that the elderly are growing should be noted in the context that the number of the elderly is also increasing very much. It is an international demographic development that has lasted over decades worldwide and is well - known in education. That means that what is called, probably because no better word has been found, nursing weight will grow in the institutions we call nursing homes. This requires more specialised personnel and makes the management of these institutions more expensive. Another basic fact that I would like to mention is that it is an annual event, or it happens several times a year, that each time we discuss financial, financial, or financial agenda, it is time for the neglect of nursing homes in this country. There is no need to consult the Generals'Web site for discussions and documents on this subject for long. Now it's happened to the highest. A health minister has set up a group of employees who in April returned in a recent intensive and careful report on nursing problems. Of course, receiving that report is a great improvement. It is attributed to the head of the staff, Professor Gylfi Magnússon, the Gothra Commission, or the Daily Report, but no attempt is made to link the additional funds we address here to explain the results of that report. Also, this amount, 1 billion, is not explained. I've studied what this subject says in the Senate document that is the basis for the budgetary bill 2021 and the silence of this subject, the connection with the nursing problems, is high, I have to let myself be told. There's been a very busy nursing home in the news. Toward the end of May, the morning newspaper under the title "Don't Deal With the Nurses' Problem " was being discussed in the morning edition. It was about making more of the budgetary proposals for the government's decision to make financial plans until the next five years. According to this report, the Director - General of the Organization for Health Services - including companies operating in nursing homes - Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, severely criticize the fact that in making more legal arrangements, the care of a nursing home has not been discussed. Of course, it is mandatory to mention that the same report quotes the chairman of the legal committee, which is, of course, as we know why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, that further evidence is needed to evaluate the cost accurately and that he is expected to deal with the problems in budgets and budgets in the fall. It's been going along, at least In terms of the budget, in part it must be acknowledged that the problem is addressed. But the question is, Is this really satisfying and real, based on the figures presented in this huge report I have mentioned, the answer seems obviously to be that this is not sufficient to be done on the case? It is quoted by Eybjörg Hauksdóttir in this report, director of the Health Service Association, that she is amazed by the reading of the articles more part of the legal committee, this is probably referring to the opinion of a greater proportion of the legal committee, as we call it here at the General Assembly, and in the report she is quoted, by permission of the President: If we respond to such a reaction, we will be greatly disappointed. We've been waiting a year for a report to analyze the condition of the nursing homes. She's here and she shows the house's underprivileged neglect. She says, with permission from the President: The results from 2019 are somewhat underestimated, but the rest came in a retrospective collective pay raise. Obviously, the situation is very narrow, and the nursing home is about to fail. But nothing to do. It seems that the government does not want to see or hear about these issues. Since this morning's newspaper, Mr. President, news of a bill is being given for financial purposes and reports the proposed amount of 1 billion. temporary and conditional contributions this year to raise the daily expenses of nursing homes because of their management problems. Then, by permission of a president, Gísli, Páll the son of Pálsson, president of a welfare agency, is quoted as saying: ▪ Of course, we are happy to receive additional financial contributions for this lucrative group, but we feel that this is not enough. The government has just received an independent assessment of the need for money from the so - called Golf Committee. The happy conclusion of this assessment was that the nursing home is 2.7 billion a year to make ends meet. So we expect more this year or at worst at the beginning of the next year. The story says, with permission from the President: ▪ He hopes that by then the government will have communicated how to solve the problem of nursing homes. That is a requirement for a 1 billion dollars. the increase of the budget in the bill to allow nurses to agree on the two-month extension of their service contracts, meaning until the end of February 2022. Gísli describes this typical state - of - state situation when a person sees that the right time is not due, and it is all too common to take too much time on a matter that can be solved in a shorter time. According to him, the extra supply of the budget bill does not solve the problem. So by permission of a president, Gísli Páll is quoted. It is a small patch on a large wound. Of course, we always welcome increased donations, but there could have been more. I must say, Mr. President, a man must agree with the spokesmen of the companies who have the nurses' business. I have quoted both Páll Pálsson and Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, who, of course, support their case and refer to this independent assessment, which is a fine contribution. I'd like to grab off this report, of course, I have a very short period of time left, which says in a map, by permission of the president: In the coming decades, e.g. A double of those aged 80 years and older between 2020 and 2040. Another factor that remains to require a marked increase in nursing and nursing weight may also be increased, especially if the home puts more emphasis on offering farms to those who are the oldest and the most lost while elderly are able to keep their own homes, depending on events involving home service and other assistance. So the cost of nursing will grow considerably. It says then on the basis of domestic management, which is specifically discussed in the period 2017-2019 because sufficient numbers did not exist before 2020, with the permission of a president: DURING that period, most of them were thrown at the head of their homes. A total of 1,497 million home fell from 2017 to 2019 C.E. However, since all the years were spent, several rural societies contributed to homes where they drove to meet their headways, making these contributions seem to be earnable. Without their contributions, the loss of households during that year was $3,500 million. Mr. President. I see my time is coming out. It is absolutely necessary to deal with this business problem in a handsome way that does not look like a small patch on a large wound. This matter needs to be handled. It's absolutely urgent, and it's a total government duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u111	Mr. President. Public financial law. I'm going to admit that the person standing here may not be the hottest fan of the system that is drawn up in public financial laws, but they did accept a measure of discipline on government matters that was sorely lacking. One of the laws on public finances was to reduce the impact of financial contributions, to reduce the temptation of the government at any one time, to count only part of the State's budget on finance, and then to compensate for the difference from what was the case with financial aid that was often severed. That is why there is a clear set of laws on public finance that budgets should be used to cover changes in budgets to cover the expenses of the state fund, which were inaccessible to finance, or are now considered necessary because of changing circumstances. Every time we receive financial contributions, this is the first question we should ask ourselves: Is this an unforeseen amount of money or not? And it probably has been as clear how many of these expenses were as it was today. For example, most of the fine labour markets proposed in the bill took place in December Summer jobs for students, recruitment grants, and rehabilitation grants would make me feel that there were all the suggestions or expenses that were not long before they were placed directly into December. If we just get these teams together, we're talking about nine billion of the over 14 billion in this bill. 9 out of 14 billion are expenses that are not too unpredictable. But connected are the expenses that were anticipated in December and the suggestions for the innuendo and are not available to me, which I miss. Here, for example. Start the job on creating summer jobs for students. Then there is no way to mention the wide demand of the student movement to secure students who are at the same time studying a job market, right to unemployment. It wouldn't even have to be that big payout team. If everything turns out to be the best way and the economic situation gets better, and if the job starts, all the jobs that need to be done will only serve the right students for unemployment benefits, so that there's no need to worry about being above everything else about their basic career over the summer months, which will then affect all the next year because the academic loan system does not assume that people are commercially involved in the three months of study time. A basic education fund that is well meant by students is a goal of nine months'education, which is then added by the three - month work of individuals. And if there's no work to do, people are just in trouble. This safety network would be so precious for every student it could catch. We must want as a community, to make it easier for people to study rather than make it more difficult for them to do so. What, though, of the unforeseen expenses that have been taken during the discussion since our approval of budgets in December? You see, not all of them have made their way in here, expenses that are urgent, and they may not be able to wait until the fall and the next year. There I would like to mention three cashiers if I can make it: First of all, climate. You see, the government took so long to set an ambitious climate goal, because it wanted to wait for the coal addicts to negotiate with the rest of the European Union for common goals that Iceland could delay, that the government's reimbursed strategy will not reflect the new objectives of 55% in the European Union but the old, about 40%. As a result, the objectives of this year's budget are also based on 40%, not 55%, reductions in emissions, and the financial goals adopted in December are also 40%, but not the 55% that the government announced on the day when financial laws agreed it would be successful. So at the same time as the prime minister was meeting with his colleagues in Europe to state that Iceland was going to be under the European Union's umbrella about 55% reduction in emissions approved budgets for this year that did not reflect the ambition. Happily, this has been responded to in an updated financial program adopted here last week. It was beginning to add 1 billion additional contributions to climate projects, which were indicated that this would not be achieved with the higher ambitions spoken for. In fact, it is stated that while half of the projects are involved that are either difficult to assess or absent from the Paris Treaty, their priority was to improve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. So even the profit rate of this billion is bickering. However, in payment of financial programmes, representatives of the budget calculated to other amounts. If we walk out of the previous calculations of the government that were right, the sum could be higher than that billion would be for the higher ambitions foretold. Then it is natural to use the budget we have in our hands today in order not to space between 2020 and 2022 years, as it is about to happen. The additional contributions to climate because of ambitions announced last December should, of course, the President, cover the current years as well. That is why it is so strange that the government that, when these billion were anointed onto a financial level, the government released a comparable billion into the budget that came here to the council at the same time as we were putting up a financial program. Whether this is an error or a desire to do so should not be said, but it must simply be fixed in the discussion of the subject by the Committee. This was the first possible unseen thing I miss in this financial bill. Another point I'd like to mention is an independent domestic rights agency, which the Minister of Justice announced two or three years ago that there was a time when Iceland is obliged to do so under international contracts to ensure the rights of disabled persons. The plan of a box revealed that running such an institution would cost some 60 million a year. Then came a budget and financial plan to the council last fall, where it is said that they are not standing to set up this institution because the agency is not expected in a financial programme. As if the Minister of Justice was totally out of touch with the financial and financial arrangements that follow, a justice minister came to us and said: "Sorry, we don't have money for this. In order to help the Minister of Justice to establish this human rights institution, I proposed a change in budget and financial plan in the late autumn to increase the budget of the matter area by 60 million missing. This adjustment was made, but last February the government claimed that it had decided to appoint a team to update the ideas of an independent national rights institution, such as a legal agreement on financial law had just never taken place. Then the Council's press release shows that since the current financial programme does not expect financial support, there is a need to look for ways to establish the Agency. The route would have been natural for the council in December; the adjustment might have been accepted. And, of course, it is obvious that now that we have a budget in our hands, the Congress at hand would be to correct this, to simplify this task force of the Council's staff to update the ideas of an independent national rights agency that meets the United Nations Paris target, to simplify that task force simply by assuming funds for it. Halfway through the year, we would not even have to plan for 60 million expenses, 30 enough for the second half of the year. And then we would be suddenly taking serious steps in order to fulfill the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment. A respectable president. I see that I have only covered two of the three points that I was going to address in this talk. Now, it seems to me that I must ask a respectable president to put me back on the rosary in order to arrive at the third and final part of a brief talk later on on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u112	Mr. President. I was going to start by going through this in the big movie, but I'm going to turn it around because I'd like to highlight the budget for an international development team that I suspect has not been given a lot of coverage in this discussion. It's a donation that I love both great and possibly just low. The bill says, with President's permission: It is estimated that the legal rights of the mercenaries will increase by 250 million. K. due to Iceland's contribution to the development and distribution of vaccine against the Korean virus to developing countries. Iceland's contribution is expected to be 500 million. K. and up to 250 million. K. will be financed by changes in priorities within international development cooperation. All right, 500 million. K. is a good contribution to this. International support for the distribution of the vaccine against the Korean virus in developing countries has been directed by the COVAAX cohesion, which is a co-operation between the World Health Organization and GAVA, which is called the International Recontraction Fund, which is a remarkable translation of the term. This is, in fact, the cooperation fund for many countries and businesses and institutions who are trying to distribute vaccines in many parts of the world. Just to stress how important this is, there is a tremendous risk that new forms of the crown virus will arise, possibly resulting in a failure to respond to existing vaccines. The cranium virus is changing very fast. We have seen very many variations happen in a brief period of time. Fortunately, they have been the nature of the current vaccine's ability to exert its beneficial and highly effective effectiveness in a large number of cases, but we can see a variable rate of vaccine distribution. Iceland today, or last updated, some 57% of the population have received their first dose. I suspect it's almost 60% now, and we've come a long way toward herd resistance. The same is true in many other lands. Israel spent very long, too, Bhutan. In the European Union, 38% of adults have reached at least the first dose; in North America it is about 37%. But then when we start looking at the poorer countries of the world, it starts to look very bad. In South America, approximately 18% of adults have received their first dose. In Asia it is only about 6% overall. Then we are looking at a situation in India that is at the time where the number of deaths is sky high. In Africa, only about 2% of adults have received their first dose. Then, if you go into the numbers, these are some 28 million doses that have been distributed in the African continent at present. Of these, there are about 18 million in ten countries, so the remainder is 6◯8 million - I've only confused myself with the numbers, it's bad to do this from memory, but it's spreading over the rest of the countries. There are 54 countries in Africa, so the rest will be distributed in 44, and this is a very large number of countries in many cases. It is a key element to make a special effort to increase the cooperation and stroke of the international community's ability to raise the level of vaccination in those countries that have the least economic ability to buy a vaccine on their own and on our own because it may help us to avoid becoming involved in another harmful coral wave later. We're on eradication campaign. And by the way, Mr. President, mankind has only ended up with two global diseases, but an extraordinary number of diseases remain. And actually, since I'm talking about a project related to GAVA, in Iceland we've been giving money to GAVA for years, and we're using GAVA. for immunisation against HPV, measles, rubella, cholera, polio, typhoid, jaundice, etc. So there is an amazing cooperation even now. This amount of money will be used to reduce the number of deaths in countries that benefit from cooperation but also to reduce the likelihood that the whole world will be exposed to the new epidemic that needs to develop new vaccines. I just want to put it as strongly as possible that Iceland is a country. We can see more money in this, each dollar will give a lot of money, and if possible, we have good reason to add to it, even if it is only a small amount. Each dollar will pay a lot back there. But after spending half my talk on this, because it's really important, I'm going to try to get the rest together quickly. Maybe first you could say that when I looked over the bill, most of them seemed to work really hard on me. I couldn't see that there was anything extra out of it. Nowhere's wasting money on some nonsense. This is all something that is needed. But as noted, including. in the speech of a man. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson just moments ago, this may have been a problem, if not entirely predictable expenses, and under normal circumstances it should have been part of this year's financial and financial budget. I understand to some extent that it wasn't because there was a legal adjustment in some of the situations that had to be expected in this case. All right. Still, there is good reason to ask whether we would be in this position if we had done our job a little better with the laws of Christmas and had agreed on the things that needed to be done. The laws on public finances are melancholy, which support such a process. My critical point is that most of the measures are temporary, but most of them would need to be permanent. It's, for example. increase in budget for nursing and rehabilitation services. There is an increased warrant for a mental health disorder that we were discussing earlier. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. There is a passage in this that most of the procedures introduced should be permanent. Of course there are some, such as. The budget for the bus bus, which doesn't necessarily have to be permanent. Likewise, traveling is something that is a monotonous cost, but the rest of these are something that should be permanent. So it stings me a little bit. Of course, budgets will be taken in the fall, and we may discuss the future organization of these things then, actually not me, but some will. However, the danger of being warned of all these financial provisions gives me a measure of concern. Just these warnings, these words of temporaryity and need to be done now because of the situation in society and something like this - it's a little bit of an election. With this, people can say, especially in the national part of the world: see, we're really good, we give money to these things now that are really important. But then at the same time, they can play out the game, saying, "We're trying to save the money of the state, so we're not going to let the action be permanent. " We talked a little earlier, me and what. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, there's a certain tendency to be virtual in Icelandic politics. I think it's an example of that, and I think it might be approached more firmly. But I think I'll let it go for now. I'd like to talk about your travel present. I think it's interesting to me, and it's been very helpful, has benefited much from the tourism and the food industry. It is very interesting to see how the money has spread into a single company and, in fact, it is very interesting to see that last night, most people were rushing into using the move at the last minute. It went about 80 billion. K. The final dash. It makes you think, on the other hand, that the administration may be a tiny, defective tool, because it gives relatively little support to relatively few companies at a time when many companies would have benefited from more intensive support, and, on the other hand, this is a very small amount per person. Yes, it is possible to say free 5,000 bucks. Be very good for anyone. Although I am critical of this arrangement, I benefited from my traveling gift. Still, we should look at this in a larger context. Either the State should contribute money to individuals without any restrictions in the way this was done, or the State should not come there. So my unit has long been speaking about us experimenting with some kind of civil pay system and can be said to be a very flawed, very limited attempt to do so. In the meantime, if we look past the fact that it's a bit complicated to use the travel process, not insurmountable to most people but some have been in trouble -- I even saw yesterday that people have been having a hard time getting their phone to work with the program - if you look past the gaps, there was an interesting attempt to give money directly from state funds to individuals. This may be something that should be done with and more open - minded, but we would also need to examine only where the goal is. Is the aim just to support a few companies in certain sectors, or is the goal of trying to maximise the usefulness and flow of money and our economy, which I think should be our goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u113	Mr. President. We'll discuss the budget here. This is the last work of a government government government in history, and it is certainly enough to end a great and large task to repair the nation's economy. Here's a step in that direction. It is positive to see in the bill the necessary injections in the social and work markets and for the creation of temporary jobs, but the lack of considerable support for permanent employment is growing. We see that this year's annual cost of unemployment will be 12 times higher than that of commercialism today, 12 times higher. Thus, there is much to work, and, of course, not just because persistent unemployment is expensive for the sake of a government fund, but because of its influence on homes where thousands of people and families will have reduced incomes and other related problems, financial, physical, and spiritual problems that we know are associated with chronic unemployment. So I would have liked to see more tangible actions intended for a long time. There may be too much to expect in this bill for financial support. I talked about it at the time that there were those signs that I'd wanted to see in the last budget and then the government budget that was approved last night with all the paid votes of the greater part. So this amount of money is hardly enough, even if it is to be used with a certain amount of force. And there are, as I say, taking steps in temporary action that, of course, will matter to many. But it's the most important business creation. We need to establish the basis for an environment that promotes natural growth in a general labour market and helps to resist the unsuspecting trends promoted by the government's actions, or inactions. I would have, for example. Wants to see these funding used to further reduce the labours that make it easier for companies to create jobs. Specific measures to increase the number of jobs in the long-term country would have been desirable now, and measures that will contribute to growth with increased production. I would have had the courage to invest even more in greener technologies, education, and infrastructure. All of this to promote long-term work structure in order to aim for long-term economic growth and stability. Mr. President. Of course, the government alone is not responsible for a financial disorder. This was a pandemic, followed by a collapse, especially in one of our basic work branches. But the storm clouds that have stocked us with a vision for a long time had begun to flare up before the crowning plague hit us. It was a storm cloud that the government possibly didn't see out of the good - water glasses that she was just late to take off. After all, the worldwide tourism service was the worst of all because of the Korean virus epidemic, and it is, or was, our largest industry. So that unemployment crisis was predictable from the first day. For good reason, it was called upon right away when men were considering specific measures that we would take major steps right away to cope with the economic problem. These small steps are very powerful, and there is a danger of not using money or using it sufficiently. We'd like to see in-house investors hurry, i.e. those that can be rushed, instead of spreading them over the years. We would have liked to see a faster energy exchange, a crisis in support of innovation, a sense of leadership and security for people who are looking for a job search and a smaller curse on an enterprise. Some of these efforts were failed on the part of the government, but some of them first appear in these funding laws, and it's quite late. Another thing I would have wanted to see the government correct with this money is considerable, and I'll let myself say the sharp lack of investment in the nation's public health. That need had become evident for the crown virus epidemic. And not only in Iceland but in many Western worlds, this trend is anticipated, and the World Health Organization has warned of a considerable long time, the so - called life - related diseases that are becoming a bigger part of our health - care business. We receive a report showing that modern disability can directly be attributed to neglect when it comes to national health and continued to be counted. In addition, long - term unemployment, loss of income, anxiety, and uncertainty have become urgent, e.g. To finance the contracts of Iceland's Medical Insurance with independent psychiatrists, as the government claimed to support last year. It is probably the most important preoperative action that can be taken to reduce the negative effects of the crown virus epidemic, to name no more. Some might feel that it is too late to call for this now, but we are still in 1 Corinthians. budgets. Here, members of the greater part, I specifically call them to mind because it is conclusive to show that there are no changes proposed by members of the smaller section, the opportunity to move on the right path, and to correct what I would like to call a mistake, to show that spiritual health is evaluated to the same extent as physical health. As long as this route does not guarantee permanent work with direct financial support in these funds, this is a very important procedure for at least to minimise the health damage, long lasting damage to unemployment. Mr. President. If we keep our cards right, then a body of Congress can really turn back. By means of national economic practical investments, we can ensure an increase in economic growth, which is the key to improving the quality of our lives. It's much more expensive for the nation if the government draws its feet at this point. Today, some may say that it is simply enough, a $14.6 billion bill. additional contributions to the government's action package. The fact is, as we know, the cost of Covid is already several times that amount, and it will continue to increase and cost the nation more. In the near future, we need to work to analyze our largest means of parishion, our investment in green technology, our industrial creations, our public health and our gangstasy. There's a lot of shit out there. We're supposed to invest in activities that return to increased production and growth. This is the only way to ensure that we are able to grow out of an ongoing crisis and that the government's vision of invasive measures such as cuts and/or higher taxes do not come true, as there is a fall in working against goals, as if a unstable currency does. These funding are not a financial plan or government financial policy, certainly not, but they are the last tool, the last tool of the government and the last opportunity for a body of Congress to respond to this ideal period and ensure the real and safe restoration of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u114	A respectable president. I'd like to mention two things to you. A senator, on the one hand, was involved in the importance of improving climate activities and measures to counteract them. It is not only a matter of what we must do to prevent disasters in the future but also of the future innovations. The way to grow out of Covid and the way to grow out of climate change, how to build a just society in the future, on intelligence and technology, and so on. This link I'd like to ask, because we're here on budgets that are supposed to reflect unforeseeable expenses that were not evident in December when we agreed on budgets for the current year. Not all of them are in this bill text, but good. However, there are costs just growing yesterday when we agreed on a budget, that's exactly the cost of climate, because in December, in the same breath as the council agreed to the budget, Prime Minister announced that Iceland would be involved in an increase in the European Union's ambitions for climate change. The billion added to the budget for the next five years, i.e. One billion a year, to meet this increased ambition - let alone the billions of people - not be found in the budgets of this year. In view of the ancient history, should he not be in the sheepfolds of this year and how ambition increased during bad times in the financial process?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Andrés Ingi Jónsson is very grateful for his counter-sponsored response. I'd like to start by saying this through climate action, that I've noticed in our discussion how much emphasis is on how many billion we put into it, as if it were the only standard for what we have to say. I have that opinion, as important as it is for us to meet our conditions, here are opportunities that few people have in innovation, to use the special position that we have because of our nature to be on the lead. I miss seeing that place in education, in support of innovation companies, in cooperation with governments and employment. I have felt that this government has gone particularly far in approaching these matters with a command rather than with a view to it. But that's another story. I think it's the right thing to say next to you. A senator of how special it is that he does not see a place in these government cops, i.e. The expenses that have been offered, these improvements. But it may substantiate what is said here that there are expectations, groups of directors, three conservatives, working together at the end of the election and finishing the case. But I guess this should have been here. And so I can throw the ball back to sleep. A senator who may have been more attentive to the discussion and possibly asked the secretary of finance or the chairman of the legal committee on the subject: Does he know why it's not there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u116	A respectable president. First of all about a question that was addressed to me: No, I don't know why, because the billion on a financial agenda for the next year, that will reflect the ambitions that take effect when this year are not on any of the financial laws of this year. I haven't asked that. I haven't got any answers, but I'm gonna guess. I think it was simply the temptation to do less than more, because the next budget can be embezzled and added to these billion, perhaps more, and the percentages will sound better in the government that people hope to continue working at the end of the election. But we try to make sure that this will not be, and our ambition will be more real than it will be, not just some showy ambition. Then I'd like to take my heart to the ground with a bang. A senator regarding the importance of linking activities in climate and innovation because in the years and decades, climate issues will be the driving force for all innovations. The companies who are actively involved in revolution greens, the countries that are leading, will become the heads of growth in the coming decades. The companies that don't participate will go bankrupt. That's just how it works. Because the senator is on a welfare committee, I would like to consider just one little mental health problem that we have been discussing during the past few months, which is the status of the emergency team of the Hospital. You see, a minister's response to a request at the beginning of the year showed that the eating team was a quarter less than five years ago, that the number of waiting lists increased by seven times at the same time as waiting time of 18 in the year. In view of the fact that the team is getting only 55 million a year, would it not be advisable to use extra funds to address these financial expenses that the government seems to have not realized that it would have to increase when we agreed on legal laws here six months ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u117	Mr. President. Before I get to the matter that concerns the welfare committee and the eating team, I'm going to continue this with the innovation. Because I know why. A senator is almost and probably equally interested in what is taking place in the environment of the European Union, e.g. Very interesting to see Green Deal, their policy, how much emphasis they put on the small companies, that they are not left behind when it comes to the expense of paying, or because of these green emphasis or changes, so that they are not dependent on larger companies, who have more balls, but also the strength to pursue new business practices and to work on innovation. So it's different to equalize, so it's down. Regarding the lack of funds from the eating disorder team, if it had been a bad idea to add to the process to reduce the quality of the list, the question arises. A senator simply as if he assumes that having a short list of plans is a fool and a client of this government. It's just not like that when it comes to health care, huh? Senator. We're not looking at it, unfortunately. The short answer is: This operation, this lack of funding for this particular health service that leads to a growing list of waitings, is just a pair with the rest of this government when it comes to the nation's health care, that's just the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u118	Mr. President. I want my second speech on the budget bill to include unemployment and employment matters. Now, a substantial amount of money goes into unemployment measures, i.e. Necessary insurance, as well as additional support for re-employment in previous employment rates, summer jobs for students and recruitment levels with jobseekers, which are a good tool. All of this is a good plan, but it's costing money. It's about 10 billion. Then you come to it: What is the government doing to try to improve the position of the enterprises in the country, which, of course, are the key to increasing the number of jobs here? It's clear to me that's a big job. Overcoming unemployment is the big task that lies ahead. I have to say, there's a lot of disappointment that in the budget, which has just been approved by the council, there's no way you can raise the number of jobs here. Only travel services are looked forward to and she's supposed to take care of everything. It is a projection of the arrival of tourists, who are very likely to be fulfilled, that is, due to the traveller's meeting at the branch office. And the Habitat continues to assume a high unemployment rate next year. What's also disturbing about this, as shown in the financial counsel for financial matters, is so - called systematic unemployment, in which those who are looking for a job cannot get a job. This growing concern has to be addressed, and financial advisers discussed particularly when managing financial matters. It must also be realized that we need to have the economy in such a competitive and competitive environment as well. A foreign investment is very important to our growth, and then we are competing with many kingdoms, our neighboring kingdom. This has been shown in the discussion of the report by the minister of international affairs that we are rather uncomfortable when it comes to double-folding agreements against other countries. All of this matters when you look at the situations that we create for those companies who want to come here and start a business. This is the big job, the unemployment, and I really hope we have the good fortune to increase the number of jobs here. How important that is! The central category has focused on improving the work environment of an enterprise. He has suggested a permanent down payment. Sadly, these suggestions have all been dropped. The reduction in the insurance fee proposed by the government is only temporary and will not solve the situation. This is what I'd like to stress, Mr. President, about the business. I'm going to come here at the end of the international development team because the time is running out and right to stay within the times, because the President is paying close attention to my doing so, that's his natural domain. We're putting 250 million. K. to raise donations for the vaccine, etc., which is a good thing. But I'd like to say that, in our budgets, we put it, for example. 700 million. K. To Malawi, which is one of our fellow workers. There, a high percentage of children's marriages are involved. Indeed, we need to draw the attention of governments in these lands, Malawi, Uganda, Sierra Leone, and Liberia, when we carefully observe that they work against women's baby marriage and mutilation. I'll tell you in the end, Mr. President we should emphasize this when we give money to these countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u119	Mr. President. We'll discuss this with you guys. I'll just come up with a few things on that matter. Granted, the state funds are difficult after the viral epidemic, and this is an attempt to resolve some of the measures that have been undertaken by this bill. But there are several other things I was going to do here as a subject. First, it is the nursing home, which some other members of Parliament have actually entered. This is because, in terms of budgets, approximately One billion dollars to stop at a hole that is, in my opinion, far from being sufficient because this problem is not new, has been gone on for years, and has been called after years of correction. It's been cut down all the time, long before the virus epidemic. The budget is constantly being cut down for this nursing group, their business, and they are actually pressured to negotiate with the threat that otherwise they will not be given the necessary funds to get fired at each time. This is one example. There it is to provide 1 billion, far from sufficient to correct the massive salutation that is confirmed in a recent report published a few weeks ago. The results of this assessment show that a nursing home is at a rate of 2.7 billion per year. There's no small amount. And here it is to give 1 billion condition that the nursing home agree to extend the contract for two months, i.e. to the end of February next year. This is, in fact, a reflection of the government's workouts, especially in the field of health. It is this compulsion to postpone the problem, even if it is only for a month or two. This is an example. It's supposed to put off this big problem, roll it ahead of him for another two months. While bleeding these nursing homes and rural communities are running from this ship that they have recently made, one after another. It's all in the arms of the state that I don't know how to run it any better or less than the members of today. It's like this, and I wanted to draw attention to it. There's a problem that shouldn't be handled. He is not to be dealt with, as is the case with very many other matters in the medical field under the administration of this government. We're looking abroad for action. There are samples sent abroad when there is enough knowledge and human knowledge in this country to do the same. No, it's better to do this somehow differently. They see a lot of hallucinations if they give any money to the domestics, I don't talk about if there's a private person. There's so much poison in the bones of this government, it just gets, I don't know if to say "vomiting," but it's going to get in the stomach at any point because if it looks like it's going to have to pay some money to private people, I'm not gonna talk about it if there's any chance that there's any chance that there might be some profit. That's the problem. This government may be the most famous to reflect the problem ahead and in the hands of the next government. The same is true of transport and investment infrastructure. An army hatch sounded that we should now enter the infrastructure. And what is that? Actually, the thing we read a few weeks ago is that public investments have been attracted by about 10% in 2019 and by about 10% 2020. This is the increase in investments. Mr. President. People can talk and talk about doing something, but nothing will happen. To do something, you have to do something. But nothing is being done. There's talk and something is being proclaimed. But all of this is to be done when? In the days of the next government? The government that's going to be chained in the fall is going to do all of this; they're supposed to deal with nursing problems, they're going to take in investments. It is likely to complete the transport that is being proclaimed by humans at this time of news, that something should be done later, not now, but later. This is what may be the most famous government, to postpone the problem, to move ahead. A fine example is that of a nursing home. Who's going to deal with this problem? Not this government? No, someone else. I wanted to draw attention to this. I'm also going to call attention to more things, Mr. President, if I may allow the passing of time. That's the situation in many of the public systems, i.e. with the appearance of biographies. With the development of the biographer contracts, there have been some very busy places in hospitals, police departments, and shift workers with abbreviated week of work. It may not be very loud, but you can hear that these institutions are in the greatest difficulty of financing this, with human resources. And what happens? I was now reading a story that only appeared an hour ago, about the fact that 900 million people had been promised to the police so that they could handle the problem that was obvious a long time ago - 900 million years ago. It's the same thing there. This will delay the problem long enough, probably, so it's going to fall into the hands of the next government, these 900 million to add to the police. Some police officials said they needed 75 police officers. How many months will it take for 75 officers to complete these 900 million? It's just a simple account. That's not a long time. That's about it. the life of this government. So it's also supposed to delay the problem, just as was the case with the nursing homes that had long since been seen. But it's supposed to throw in quarters. But there's something else, Mr. President, that I'm going to discuss before I forget. I haven't read this budget bill yet, but I haven't seen that 900 million on this bill. It might be nice to know if they can be found in this budget bill, 900 million. Is there a billion people who are praising institutions without the discovery of a newly created bill - just created? And the council is still active, so there's still time to put this into the bill. But it's a work plan, it's a work plan; it's been promised financial support before it's entered the council and before it's entered a bill that's just printed. Maybe it's my job. They're short-term pediatrics, Mr. President, short-term low-dose cures. As the director of a company's welfare services agency says in the Morning Press: It's a pleasure, but it's not enough for this financial group. The same can be said for law enforcement. It is a group where we have called for decades to see the rise of police officers and to be overlooked as required for many years. The results of the police department, as they've been lately, i.e. with a change in watch schedule due to abbreviated work week, they, according to the president of the Police Association for a recent interview, are that it just reduces monitoring. In addition, monitoring is increasing in order to get the shortcut. How is this done? By increasing the number of people? No, by reducing the number of people on the other watch. Instead of maybe being on duty in the country, there's one on duty. Instead of being six, there are four to five, depending on the size of the office. This process, according to the Chairman, is improved in the capital area, where it is less apparent, though it shrinks a little while of monitoring. But in the country, it's a bad thing. Although this injection will occur, 900 million will occur. Mr. K., if it is true that a minister has promised this without us seeing that in this bill, it will only last a few months. So these tiny medicine can be found in many places. Of course, Mr. President, the state funds have changed completely from what may have been 14 months ago, and we're going to win. It's a hell of a job to go back. I'm the spokesman for turning this around in a way that makes us grow out of this problem, i.e. The job. It will be enabled to recover very quickly, and I think that's the basis for it. In that way, we'll work it out. In some years, we'll make progress. Of course, like many others, I fear that there will be a left government that will tax them and that they will have talked about. - I can see why. paritaprevir Andrés Jónsson has let it go. - They've only spoken for themselves. I don't know any better than that. A senator comes up to this chair and talks about the solution to all the problems of the state's funds to tax and hire more government employees. Is that what we want? Do we want a Reykjavíkurmmodel here, a non-profit policy and a tax gain, a tax gain? No, Mr. President. I think it would be wise for these times to work out by allowing a life in the pros and by allowing it to grow and recover, the results we've lost in a few years. That's how I think it's best to do, because the problem is crazy, as I've pointed out. The law. It needs to be handled, and it needs to be strengthened, not just because the lifetime contracts and the workweek calls for it, but in general view of recent events that opened our eyes to the rise of organized crime groups. There's a job to do, Mr. President, and I don't think we should let anything do to further the police so that they can deal with the problem. This cannot happen at all. But, of course, if you're going to run after anything called after, petting, Mr. President, who I've been talking about in this chair, not the real challenges we face. And one of them is nursing homes. Of course, we need to keep the promise that the old people have been given, that people can have a pleasant, carefree lifetime night.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u120	Mr. President. I recommend here to the National Committee to recommend a change to the bill in terms of changing the unemployment insurance law and the gymnasium payment for the pay expenses of contractors, payment in the Korean epidemic. The nominee is a matter of extending resources, etc. The committee brought in a number of visitors. The bill suggests that there will be prolonged income - related unemployment benefits and monopolies to those without a job at the start of the Korean epidemic. Furthermore, a word change is suggested to explain that those who are guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system and who have studied concomitantly in the labour market should always be allowed to complete the current period regardless of when applying for unemployment insurance. Finally it is suggested that there will be an extended period in which athletes can apply for pay to the labour ocer based on a law on sports society's payment on pay and shop shops during the crowning season. Commenting on the case, it was suggested that the resources that the bill contains should include more players, on the other hand, the right to pay the students for unemployment benefits, and on the other hand, to sign a youth job under a law on sports society's payments for pay and contractors during a Korean epidemic. The majority believe that it is now impossible to make such extensive changes to the bill. He points out that the government has at present returned with resources to ensure a job opportunity for students in the summer. If this is the case, if it is extended to sports companies, it will again be done to temporarily eliminate the activities due to the official protection measures. It was noted that the time of the XV provisional regulations on unemployment insurance law would need to be extended, No. 54/2006, but it runs out next year. The requested provision involves the right of an individual who has adeplies to children under 18 years of age to 6% of the non-compliment of non-employment with each child at certain criteria. The majority point to the Ministry to see if a further extension of the provisional principle is necessary. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested as a provision for temporary payback on 14 months or more on May 1, 2021. power up to specific criteria met. The majority feel positive that they meet the individuals without employment at the time of the epidemic and were still paid unemployment rates on May 1, 2021. Early measures have not been used by these individuals, so it is important that their terms also be improved by government economic measures. Then the majority rejoice at the extensions submitted by Article 2. on income related unemployment improvements and section 4 and 5. the economic consequences of the Korean epidemic are still under way. The majority suggest one technical fixation of the bill with respect to the date in temporary XVIII regulations on unemployment insurance. Respectfully, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: on 2.g. and a new joint, as follows: Instead of the date 6:30. September 2, 2021 1, 2mg. comes on January 31, 2022. And under this, this is what we're going to write, Special Agent Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, in advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, and Árnason Aarson. Senators. I'll get this over with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u121	Mr. President. I'm here recommending the opinion of my share of welfare committees on this bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance law. A minority of the welfare committee supports the bill, but it is a big disappointment that governments are still planning to leave students behind when the necessary steps due to unemployment are due. So the smaller section suggests changes in the bill to deal with the anticipated professional problems of students during the coming summer. It is clear that many students will be without work during the summer hours, thus becoming one of the income they would have relied on. This suggests that students will be granted the right to unemployment during the summer. As many as 70% of students make part - time living under Eurostdent's survey, the number of such activities disappeared in the epidemic without the respect of the government and the help of students. According to the government's opinion, students taking student loans have dropped by half in the past ten years, more often than not due to insufficient academic funding. Students contribute their part into the unemployment insurance system when they are in the labour market without having any rights in the system. This creates injustices that cannot be made available to students and their families. According to the above, the smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: After 3rd. A new article, as follows: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Despite the 52th requirement, pars. It is permitted to pay unemployment benefits from June 1, 2021 to August 31, 2021 to students, such as the c-part 3. Under here, the piece of paper that says here, Kristinsson Ingi, puk. paritaprevir The gang of the people and Halldóra Mogensen, huh? paritaprevir Pizza. Why this? We're talking about a very specific period of time. We're talking only for summer, not forever, and remembering, once and again, that students are all kinds of people. Some students can make homes free, while other students provide for a family, pay rent, etc. and thus need a full extension during this period, but over the summer months, there are no student loans available. A number of students don't have the right to student loans, so they cannot support themselves with them. As a result, these people must be helped. The financial support of a community does not end with students seldom entitled to such assistance, which is why, Mr. President, we would like to suggest. It's a justice thing. This is a preliminary principle which is only temporary to help this fine group of members of society in these days following a crowning virus epidemic, and I hope the council will agree to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u122	President. There was a why. The head of the welfare committee to present a committee opinion with a change in my proposal to assist students. It is ridiculous, in fact, that the smaller part needs to have this adjustment, that this is not part of the modification proposals of the more part to ensure that students receive unemployment, just as unemployed are allowed to study. Students have been working along the course of study, and they owe it to these funds to gain access to unemployment when they face problems, such as these in Covid. I wanted to talk about unemployment and the state of life today. We now see in the news that during the last two months, 350 jobseekers have been temporarily removed or completely unemploymental. That's because people have turned down jobs. The labour agency appears to be on a kind of media campaign to order companies to inform the Agency if people who are on unemployment benefits do not accept work. I'm sorry about your language, Mr President, but what the hell is this shit? What kind of illegalities have we written? Remuneration is expected only to take jobs that will offer any amount of money, regardless of job status, location, and completely independent of education and the motivation of candidates. What is this message? What is the underlying ideologies, and what is the goal of this service? As a community, are we really going to demand that people tear themselves and their families apart and force them to take a job that they may not be interested in, even in bad terms, just because some job was released somewhere? Are we really going to turn people away because we want them to work just to win? The pressures and demands of these conditions are a major concern and should be of great concern to us and should be considered in the context of increased mental health problems and coldness. Young people are now talking about a problem or lack of activity, that young people are not active enough. I think that's bullshit, excuse my language, Mr President. Young people are completely active. We just have far too little respect for how young people are active, how they choose to spend their time. The big problem is the senselessness that a growing group of people experience, and perhaps not strangely, when confronted with the out - of - date ideas of the role of human being in society, that the person is just a tooth wheel designed to advance all our systems, ideas that the state with its ridiculous motivations and punishments maintain and amplify. Unemployed people are not the only ones who have such narrow limits. This applies to all reformers. I could here give a long talk about the ludicrous impairments and conditions we find in our reforms, which we may be world champions in, impairments, and taxation on the poorest people in the community. These impairments are not merely humanistic; they are by no means a failure to achieve their goals if the goal is to ensure some kind of predefined concept of government and society of activity. The opposite is, however, the opposite. They reduce efficacy. People in the government's restricted prison can neither move nor help without the government reaching out for money, apart from their goals, to expand and secure function, is a lot of junk. By the bill being discussed here and other measures by the government that responded to Covid, the budget is being pumped into a number of labour market operations that support mostly that a company can recruit employees with government support. So it is increasing the power the companies have against unemployed people: Come to me, or the State will punish you. That's the message. This is what we're working on. Here, the harmful underlying ideologies me and the human race come to be little more than slaves of the labour market. It's just our purpose and what the whole system's all about, getting people into the job market as fast as possible. Rather, should we not be actively supporting the individual? We know that the people of the country are able to make their own worth if they and all of us are allowed a little space to do so. Would it not be wise to relax the demands of unemployed and increase the amount of space needed? I would have wanted to see governments at the beginning of the epidemic give away out - of - date, where there were no demands. What kind of valuable creation would have occurred if governments had entrusted people with that kind of freedom, entrusted people with the ability to create valuable things in society out of their own needs, out of their own passions? Imagine the wastefulness involved in forcing people into jobs that are not at all suitable for them. At the same time, people may lose opportunities that might have been much better for them, just because the rules do not assume that people will have any say in the matter of how they are looking for them. The bill we are discussing right now is exactly an extension of government policy, of the idea of betting on the employer and the money owner rather than the people. That's why I can't support these actions, although there's action on the bill that's good. Unemployed funds are being donated, $100,000. for those who have been out of work for a long time, which is great. I would have been willing to see more of these actions as we were just strengthening people directly and empowering the people of the country, but not forever to the authority of the companies. We need to balance this balance of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u123	President. This is a short and complete committee opinion from the greater part of the management and monitoring committee. The committee discussed the matter and received a visitor's appointment, and it received a single report from a century of self-sustaining and democracy. The bill suggests a change in the law on the contracts of the General Assembly and the cost of Congress. Its purpose is to restrict the right of members of Congress to reimburse travel expenses for the election to the Generals. A review of Alda of years describes the firm support of the bill. The committee discussed this matter and examined it, and it may be helpful to review that most members of the Governing Body agree on the matter, not all of it. I think that there will be some who will account for this conflict in speeches. But more of it. The management board felt that it was important to maintain an agreement on this bill and to follow it all the way, although some of us may have opinions that the journey might have been made to do something more on that subject, in some other way alter the terms of the Parliamenty wedding. I would have been there to look at things in it, but neither had time nor thought, at least, that it was right to do so now and that it was important to maintain that solidarity. That is why the greater part suggested that the bill be passed on. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, along with the one standing here, signed this brief and dignified opinion of the committee, as well as the one he is planning to explain in a talk. The members of Jón Þór Ólafsson, Andrés In Ingi, in advance, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Hjálmar Hafliðason, and Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u124	A respectable president. As noted by the oar. The head of the committee, however I intend to make an announcement. First, you may say that the agent does not focus on what is on the bill. I support the subject of this bill in my mind and think it's a progressive step to be with a clearer rule as to what right senators have to reimburse travel costs for an election, just to balance the standards that are natural and almost unavoidable between the existing and those who are seeking to get in here. It is only natural that we control only the opportunities we have in the ministry to strengthen our position at the expense of those who are trying to qualify. However, my model turns to a point mentioned in 1st. The matter of why. Its transferer, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and for 9 par. legal on the prenup of the Parliament's weddings and the expenses of the Senate. It's an article about reimbursement of job expenses. I'm just going to go over how they are going to explain what it is that I would rather have seen happen and what it is that I would like to see happen next. At 149 C.E., the attorney general proposed a bill for a change in the terms of a contract requiring the removal of the 2nd issue. Count 9. The law. It is about reimbursement by the general bodies according to the rules set by the Presidency Committee. Then comes the sentence I want and believe that will eventually fall from the law, that it is permitted to pay the expenses of this sentence as a fixed sum instead of a reimbursement. What I would agree with this is that the members of Congress would have the possibility of reimbursement the job expenses, the costs that are indeed due to their work, but only against the submission of bills, and that they would then account, as it were, in the transparent community in which we have entered, appear on the Generalist web, as is true of other council costs. This would show a department of counsel. This would show a sense of responsibility for our accepting public funds and for having the freedom to place them at this level of work. In reality, though, this anyway, the account in the paragraph on which it is permitted to pay the cost of living as a fixed sum instead of a reimbursement, is the one used in general. When my bill was discussed with the Commission and Commission committee in May 2018, the prime committee submitted a review of it and said that they had discussed in their meetings that it was time to start an adjustment of the law on Congress pay, as it might be assumed that this law would be considered. But as noted in 1st. to the case we're discussing today, there was no agreedness on the Presidency Committee to handle it. In this way, we are taking only the travel cost of an election. I understand, however, that there are improvements and hopes that the Presidency Committee will soon initiate a general review of both the laws and the regulations of the Presidency Committee on the need to work costs and expect us to see something in that state before the election begins in the autumn. This amount of work is much more difficult than it would have to be because there is a chance of getting it as a remuneration. By extracting the paragraph I've suggested, this would be a much less embarrassing source. Let's review here in very short terms when Congress raised its salary quite quickly after the 2016 election. In January 2017, the prime committee responded to this increase by paying off these expenses. Subsidies that are due for office expenses or such were used there to reduce the salary of members of Congress. This shows how this has been combined, how it is treated as a remuneration. In fact, it could be said that he was established in 1995 when the Constitution law was originally set up. At the time, these were even higher payments. Today, the cost of work is 40,000. during a month, it has remained unchanged since its reduction in January 2017. I would suggest that he remain here until a new arrangement is established. However, in 1995 the cost of work was in terms of a third - third increase at a Parliamentary wedding. At that time, this law was criticized by a section of Congress as an example of the voluntary taking of a body of Congress, by some way of bypassing the system set up to determine the salary of members of Congress. And that prince thinks in himself, though, that the amount of money is far from the same proportion of Congress pay as it was in the days of the law. As noted by whiskers. So a pilot will base the bill we're doing here today at the agreement of most categories on the Presidency Committee, which in itself is not to be considered. In view of this, I'd like to support the bill as it stands, but I'm sure it's important to note that a prime committee will appear before the elections of job expenses in a clear and successful course, and right after the election will hopefully be improved to the level of the bill I proposed for the 149th Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u125	V.E.G. President. The person standing here is not a member of this committee party, and the person standing here is not in favor of this case as it is prepared here. This is not because I or any middle class member do not want to match the situation between a private senator and those who are struggling to get into Congress for the first time. As the matter is prepared, it leaves a single group that will have enormous advantages in the coming election, and there are ministers. It's been flaunted here, including by the chairman of the council when this case was proposed, a letter from two Ministry Directors that the regulations for the travel costs of the Minister will be adopted to this bill. Now, Mr. President, I'd like to quote texts from Halli and Laddi that say, with the permission of a president: 'I'd like to see it, because I believe that this case will not change the fact that the Ministers will continue their prowess in traveling places in the ministers' cars. They can't be laid down. And they will say, Well, we are coming together to meet someone and something. But the thing is, it's time for eating cutters and shoveling. The next thing we know is that the situation between ministers and senators will not be corrected for future elections. For this reason, it is not possible to add your name to this bill. Other than that, I'd like to say it specifically for a word. paritaprevir Andrés, son of Ingi Jónsson, who spoke before me, says that on the basis of my situation, I object that the salary of the senators and their other professions is some form of shyness. Even so, our people, as the whole nation knows, may turn to our contracts each month and see how that salary is combined; the basic wage, the pressures of commissioning and/or other such things, and the cost of work and travel, if they are present. And now it's time to say that the one standing here and the men who are in a situation similar to his, i.e. Councilmen here in the capital area, in view of the case we are dealing with, are most unlikely to get some cost paid back, e.g. travel costs to campaign. It is simply this, and no one is complaining or complaining about, that those living in this area will not be paid the cost of travel unless each travel event is 15 miles [15 km], i.e. Either way, 20 miles to the top. Far from it, then, a senator such as the one standing here has to go as far as the people in the large regional districts, especially northeast, northwest, and south, where people have to move away from Shippund and south to the Rockland River, to the Hornfjordur River, just for example. That's not what this bill is about. It simply centers on everyone sitting at the same table, including ministers. But as I was beginning to say, the salary and other members of the Parliament are shy, even to members of the Parliament. I don't know why that is. The senators are not too happy from their work hours, but I am not complaining about it either. But it was found in the answer to a somewhat large inquiry that I asked two or three years ago, that I don't think there is a head of a state agency so small that he has no better salary than a general senator. I think it can also be said that the Ministry Director is far better paid than the general. I believe, Mr. President, that a general body member has a salary such as a salary title named an office manager without an office, i.e. Someone who has an office manager for pay but has no authority and, I must say, Mr. President, has limited responsibility. I've ever said that because men have often talked about the national sink, at all other angles, a boatman would not be paid more than a driver, just to be told. It's said entirely without presumptuousness or pride. It's just the nature of what we're talking about. What is the responsibility? I witnessed earlier to the office manager in the Ministry office. I don't mind that class at all. He is appointed to five years, usually reorganized unless something terrible has happened, not necessarily a four - year interview with his people. So the responsibility is very limited. I have sometimes taken as an example of the responsibility of people here and then the officials of a document that comes out once a year, called a budget made by the general council, coming quite little to negotiate and Ministers even, I don't speak of after an approved law on public finances that I intend, Mr. President, once again to apologize for having supported in my own time. I'll regret it all my career in Congress and more. But especially after that change, the impact of senators and Ministers on Icelandic financial law is almost zero. Who is responsible for this document? Yes, there's a group of fine officials who make this document, they bring it in here, and we put our fingerprints on it, some, others don't. But who is responsible for the failure of the U.S. funds? It's not the man with the Excel brief upstairs in the Ministry who wrote the greater part of the bill. No, it's probably the highest. Secretary of finance. He may be severely punished, e.g. by throwing it out in the next election. But the official slowly sails the sea and continues to make more Excel documents for the next minister and the next senator. So I say, if we talk about responsibilities, if we talk about hours - and I say again: "I'm not telling, I chose this lot myself, and I love it, and I really want to stay here. It's not because the smart one he looks for is the most. It's because it's an important and remarkable job you're willing to perform. So I've let myself be only under my skin and irritated that this debate about the salary of the senators and their elections in other respects is a shy matter. I've said it before, I think, in this chair, I'll just reiterate it and put it to you, that I will not apologize for the wages that the general members have, as well as so, and I don't think anyone has to do it. I don't know any man in here, not now, not before I know, who's been after this job because of the salary, I just don't know the examples. And I'm going to, contrary to what I said before, to argue that in councils where I know Iceland there's a lot of work. Though many people think that people are sitting there and do anything to their chest, that is a complete misunderstanding. It's very loud, I'm not going to say, Mr. President, because we speak Icelandic here, but work pressure and speed and need in rapid and quick, fast, and quick moves are very controlling and dominant in recruitment activities. But, after some time of service, I can't remember answering a lot of e - mails after midnight and something like that, as you would like to do in this job here. So the days are not as long as the responsibility is. Therefore, I don't feel that the generals should apologize for taking a salary for their jobs, and I don't think their terms should be a shy matter. If we talk about changing the cost of a job, it may well be the best thing to do, I think there's a considerable amount of work to be required, because I think, if there's a chance of changing it, it'll be paid according to bills or anything like that. It's just fine, it's transparent, it's cool. But then you must also know exactly what the cost is. Now, I'm going to testify that it has happened to me, I think, once or twice, on my own short career to attend a meeting in the world at my own expense. Then I decided to use the expenses paid here to cover some of the expenses involved in attending meetings on my own rather than on the council. I have to say, that $40,000 a month worked quite a dose on something like that. That's why I'm saying, if we're going to change it and say, "Now we're paying the cost of a bill, we're going to have to make it absolutely clear and absolutely beneficial, so that it can't be taken advantage of: what cost is it paid back? Then I say, "Let men go, for example." At a meeting - and I'm going to say that the meetings I attended at my own expense were not trivial meetings unless they were less. They were very important and very necessary. The first time I went to a meeting like that, it was because the General didn't send a senator to that meeting, something remarkable today. It was only four or five years after a collapse, so people were a little discouraged from paying high costs of travel. At that time, however, the General didn't arrange for the United Nations Women's Conference. The General didn't send a representative there. So I put on a lunch and a new pair of shoes and went on my way to use the cost of work. And the annual work expenses may have been enough for half of the cost of that journey. But again. I'm not complaining. I decided to do it myself. It's nobody else's fault. I'm just saying this because I'm warning you, and I'm pointing out that a reimbursement has to be defined very well. But again, this brief committee party that I've been talking about a little bit about and not. I challenge this case again and again and will vote against it when it comes to votes because it is my firm conviction that ministers will keep busy. So I happen to have just asked a few questions about the travel costs of a minister every year, five years back in time, so it may be interesting to see how he changes, if he is now turning into the lead of this election in the autumn, even if that answer comes later. Nevertheless, I have the firm conviction that this will leave the Ministers higher and better off than the members of the council in this room and much less those who seek a place and do not sit at the council. That's why I don't like this case the way it's prepared and it doesn't support it, doesn't stand to the opinion, and will vote against this bill when it comes to votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u126	President. I hereby recommend a committee board of bodies with a bill-changing proposal for a legal adjustment to the General Assembly and a law on the rights and duties of the officers of the State from the Board of Government and Control. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Elín Valdís, the Þorsteinsdóttir daughter and Njörður Vilhjálmsson from the Sigurðsson Office and the National Library of Iceland. Then came the commission of the National Archives of Iceland. The bill suggests changes in political affairs that aim to improve the process, to enhance clarity, and to put into place various activities that have developed in the field of Congress. In addition, several new recommendations are made, and the Office of the Generals is given a more important place in the council. The review of the European Parliament's archives In its review of the National Archives of Iceland, No. 77/2014, if the Allied Council agent, and National Reunion were excluded documents to the National Library of Iceland, such as 3 mgr. 14th par. The law. According to the National Library, it is necessary to sharpen the regulations of the preservation and access of the Allegorium documents and its institutions so that comparable measures on the preservation of their documents and the preservation of documents under the law of public libraries should be taken. The committee noted that the General Assembly and its institutions were excluded to the National Archives, with reference to the lack of national records, and that national legislation is clear regarding the independent status of the archives of these meetings. In addition, it may be contrary to the ideas of the independence of the legislation of the legislature and financial support of other aspects of the government. P-E-T-T. The bill is for the General archives. Code 1. 4 mg in agreement. Section 12. Congress versus 2 mg. For new recommendations, the Presidency Committee establishes rules concerning the archives of the Generals and its documents. A bill article specifically refers to comments to the bill that became the law on public archives. It was assumed that the Presidency Committee would ensure that the files of the General Assembly would be performed in no less than the documents of donors under the official archives and access to the Generals' documents would not be inferior. This suggests that the Presidency Committee establishes rules for the General archives and access to their data. In view of the Commission's opinion, this ensures that the Generals documents are made comparable to the documents given to members in accordance with official archives. Regarding terms relating to public financial laws. Thirty-seventh. Congress states that with all the executives, the balance of government funds should be accompanied by an assessment at the expense of the state's budget. The Convention was adopted by law No. 84/2011. In 2015 government law was passed, No. 123/2015. They predict a much more dramatic impact assessment will be provided. According to the Law, assessment of the effects of the headcounts should highlight the objectives and the proposed effects of legislation. This means that there is a clear discussion of the proposed impact of the bill as well as other effects it may have, how the proposed effects serve the target and the criteria specified to determine whether they have been met. In view of the Commission's opinion, the General Assembly of Parliamentis reflected this adjusted project and suggests that the committee will make changes in its content. On the matter of taking the initiative. 14th degree. The bill is suggested that the new case be added to Article 1. Twenty-six. Congress that the committee cannot take up the subject of Congress, referred to by another committee. The report on the bill says that this is a suggestion to be taken out of all doubt that a committee cannot take up the matter of Congress on its own, i.e. Law bill, synonyms proposal, or a report referred to another committee. It has been said that this has been done, but it is important that fixed committees take account of the work taken into account by committees and on which members of the council refer to Congress on discussion. In this regard, the committee noted that there can be a legal issue in one way or another. The Commission has particularly considered the position of the Commission and monitoring committee, which has been entrusted with a high initiative in monitoring the Commission. The fact that a conference was referred to in one committee should not prevent any case that might be addressed as part of a discussion in other committees, such as Article 13. Congress. This is really so that men are not trying to cheat on Congress. An example of a council case that has been proposed and decided in the Senate Hall to refer it to one committee, not another. And when such disagreements arise, a vote in the Hall of Congress is paid not to be taken up on another committee or very similar matters, since it is being discussed and worked on another committee, the one to whom the Congress decided to refer. However, it is very clear that this does not mean that the committee cannot comment on its own initiative on all kinds of matters, even though it is related to the subject of the assembly that has been referred to in the second committee. This should not limit the initiative of a committee to do its work under the Constitution and the laws and regulations of the council. Just so it's perfectly clear. The conduct of a vote. With a 20. The bill is suggested that the President's permission to reduce the rate of votes be made, especially in agreed cases. In view of this committee, it is correct that the president has the authority to reduce the votes on things that are at peace with him. However, it is important not to go to the council's right to impose a vote on individual articles or parts of the bill or on a part of the adjustment proposal. Therefore, the commission suggests that the request for a special vote by the President to grant that request will be made by the President, which will normally be introduced in the beginning of that meeting when a vote on the matter is scheduled. This means that, as we saw in Covid, the matter can be adopted at the council with so - called variations, meaning that what the law says is marked by two - thirds of the Parliaments'approval, and there can be a vote. This was done in full agreement in Covid, a vote paid in a chamber, and the president could then negotiate votes. From this experience, it was apparent that there are fewer votes and easier on matters where there is no disagreement. But what's being taken care of here is that this project is being carried out by the senator to continue his or her unregistered rights in order to obtain a vote on the individual matters; bills, change proposals, synonyms, or whatever, so that his will be made clear in the vote. So if he's in favor of any aspect of the matter and against others, then the President will grant his request to vote for a particular team. On average, members of Congress are asked to be well prepared for this and to ask for a vote at the outset, even before a meeting. Control of tribunal administration. The bill suggests that the Council's surveillance role is to be sharpened and specifically stated, without doubt, that the Council's surveillance is also a matter of independent government. In this regard the Committee discussed monitoring of the courts. There has been some inconsistencies under the supervision of the Court's administration, which has been discussed by the Federal Agent of the Generals and at the scene of the Synod Committees for the past few years. Has it been pointed out that this point was needed to improve. By the establishment of the Court of Justice, the Court was commissioned to represent the joint administration of the courts. The objective was to strengthen and strengthen it and to work in harmony with matters involving the internal functions of the three judges. According to the Committee, the Court of Justice, an independent administrative agency, falls under the concept of an independent administration in the sense of a-involvement 23. Therefore, the bill, and the Council's check, will also be taken to the Court of Justice and to the operation that supports its administration. In view of this, it is necessary to expand further on what this monitoring should include and to feel that it will continue to be examined in the field of the council. Such work should be consulted with the emissary of the Generals, Justice Department, and Justice. At the same time, at the same time, the views presented in a report by the National Reconsistencies on the Court's administration and the opinion of a greater part of the administrative and monitoring committee on that subject, on the basis of a requested request. 355, 316 cases, considered administration and monitoring committees to report the Allegler's Report for 2015; on deck. 1687, 872th District Convention; and General and Education Committee on bill to act as a legal law, No. 50/2016, sis. 1315, 615 and 616th! The reply of the senators to the inquiry. The bill suggests that the deadline for reply to written queries will be extended from 15 to 25 active days, but it is also assumed that adequate explanations will be followed in case an extension is required. The report on the bill says that the Ministers considered the deadline aggravated and that the change could increase the quality of the answers within the deadline and thereby reduce the reports that there will be a delay in answering. The highest minister to answer written queries was extended from 10 active days to 15 by law No. 84/2011, and this delay was considered more realistic. It was also added that the minister would have to make clear to the council the reasons why a request would not be answered at the proper time and when an answer might be expected. The Commission examined the Minister's reply time in writing requests from 146 C.E. to and through the 151st legislature. This review suggests that in most cases queries are answered within 15 active days. For this reason there may be several reasons, such as an increase in the number of queries and organization and priorities within advice. According to the Committee, this aspect of the bill needs to be examined further and, therefore, suggested that a minister's reply period be unchanged at this time. The Commission emphasizes that this view does not force the right of senators to submit queries, an important part of democratic surveillance and the maintenance of the legislator, as shown by 54. The constitution. Then the committee feels that if a minister fails to answer a question within a deadline, he will be called for a more thorough argument, as per 6 mgr. 57st. Congress. Pro-markets that introduce the EEA rules. 19th degree. The bill is proposed to indicate that the primary standards for implementation are based on the EU types that main policies should not include other regulations except those that result from the type and should be developed in a report to determine the type of bill to be introduced and stated if exceeding the minimum standards required. The Commission supports this change and believes it can increase understanding of EEA matters and give the council greater opportunities for follow-up. However, the Commission stresses that under this the introduction of not only primary products that introduce the EU types but also primes designed to improve the implementation of EEA types in Iceland, just by government decrees. The Committee for the Future. Under discussion, the committee received a letter to the General President, who was asked to take the initiative to make a change in the bill that would be added to the plans for the future prime minister's transfer to the General Assembly. The future committee is composed of 11 members of all categories, which has been operating since 2018. The model of the Committee is the European Parliament's Committee for the Future, commissioned to be the head of the Parliament on matters ahead and to raise discussions about opportunities and threats. The focus of the work of the Committee will be discussed on the future government report submitted in the middle of the terms and cooperation with the Ministry of Presidency on the subject. The Council of Justice is to respond to the future report by the prime minister and is the task of the future committee that will bring a reputation by the end of the term. The cooperation of the legislature and the implementation of this authority is considered to be important to Finnish society and to the future committee's existence is based, to a considerable degree, on this. The Prime Minister's Committee for the Future included: aims to deal with the development of major currents that will have a modulating effect on society in the future, particularly on technological progress, environmental development and demographic factors. During the fall of 2019, the minister of the work group appointed representatives of the Office of the Generals, the Committee for the Future and the Ministry to evaluate different organizational plans for the future committee. One of the proposals of the work force was that the committee be brought to the Generalis in line with the pattern set by the Finnish Parliament. That proposal was presented to a positive subset of the Presidency Committee and was adopted by some 16 million. K. a temporary contribution to the General for the cost of a future committee. The proposal laid the basis for the transfer of the Commission from the Ministry of Presidency to the General Assembly. 13th. Parliamentary meetings are discussed with members of the Parliament and their roles. Based on the Committee's opinion, careful attention should be given to the setting up of the 13th stipulation on the basis of the proposals for a future committee. and made up a constant committee that ended up a number of different bodies of the current constant committees, both in order and in the subjects. In view of the fact that the future committee has been able to provide financial support only during the present year and the importance of experience in the work, assignment and order of the future committee, it is preferable to work on the basis of a provisional principle for the first time, or to the end of the next election period. Thus, there is some experience with the appendage of a future committee at the General Assembly and, based on this experience, might be tailored to the Council Committee. So the Committee suggests that there will be a preliminary addition of the bill on the Committee for the Future at the General Assembly. Other technological changes are not meant to have material influence. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes outlined in the committee opinion. Brynjar Níelsson's son, who was absent from the case, signed this under warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Sæmundsson signed this opinion in advance, which he intends to explain in his speech. This is all done at the General Assembly on May 26, 2021. Under the authority of Jón ÞórÓlafsson president and spokesman of the case, the one standing here, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Brabbur Níelsson, Bogi Hafliðason, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason, and the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, in advance. Thank you so much for your wonderful work on the Committee that has been very productive to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u127	Mr. President. Now, in short, I'd like to make an explanation of the warnings I'm putting on this otherwise fine subject. I am, for example. impressed by the fact that votes are simplified, and the president at any given time has more power to say more about how much time is spent in votes, etc. I'm happy. From a little bitter experience, I give a warning about answering questions to members of the council at the hands of a minister. That's not good enough. It'll even come. to the extent that the person present has had more than once to wait for questions to be answered to the minister. In fact, it has even gone so far that the decision of the chief legalist of the council has violated the laws of the Ministers' responsibility and of the Congress in their refusal to answer queries. The U.S. senator's right to ask questions is insane. He's the Constitutionist. You cannot forget that there are times when you may say: There are so many of these inquiries, ministers and the Ministry can't help but answer that question. But there is no request from this house unless the president prescribes the inquiry. I can only remember circumstances in which questions have obviously been either attention spanist or something like this or knowingly ways to make men pursue vain things, I just remember that in exceptional circumstances. Usually, questions are presented at the council because they are about things that concern the public and the public. This was the case, for example. questions that the person currently asks most of the time had to wait for answers, even though most of them have paid off. But I can still say that I still have a forthcoming inquiry from February 4th. It is not complicated, as it were, but the answer to it has not been received. What may also be to exasperate those in this room is that it is not always what ministers ask for time to answer. These 15 days, which the committee agreed to hold, may be a crisis, especially if there are extensive inquiries, are too short. Then ministers simply need to ask for some time. All I can remember is that it has been accepted with mildness, so people not too many here have the opportunity to make a decision if ministers do not respond at the appointed time. What I've got most about this bill is that it doesn't have in itself, I don't like saying wood, but it's in front of the stewards who don't honor the time of reply they're meant to be. There is, of course, one way. Because I mentioned earlier that the Ministers had gone to a book on Minister responsibility, there's a penalty for that. But it's actually a penal code that I'm kind of embarrassed about, that's a national judgment. It would be rather heavy to call out a national sentence 50 times a year because ministers do not answer queries at the right time. That would be a bit extreme. Yet, the person here is not pleased that there is anything in himself that encourages a minister to answer within the appointed time. It was then said in discriminately, but the person listed at a meeting the other day suggested that there may be a good day's answer. In each case, they would focus on a minister personally. But that was a bit said. Still, there are some serious things that come out of the way. It's a very serious thing in my opinion and to my judgment if ministers skim in response to inquiries based. And I don't like to ask questions that have been approved by the council's president before leaving this house to pay more attention than the times and the times have been the case here. It is, unfortunately, that the individual being present is by no means an isolated case or incident among members of Congress. This has often been the case, and then, in the recent session of the President's conference board, for example, that members have repeatedly complained that they are not getting answers to their inquiries and even not even receiving a request for the continuation of their documents in the future. That's what made me feel that I didn't want to put my name completely 100% on this committee view. Although, on the basis of the matter, it's good and it's meant to help with the work here and make better use of the council time, it's a poem. The U.S. senator's right to ask questions is the Constitution. Because each senator is part of this council, he is no island - this surveillance role is very important and very important to the execution of the authority. It should also be mentioned that the current government is formed, including the government. to promote the General Assembly, the cover of the government's collaborative agreement. It is a beautiful promise, but it has not always gone a long way in Congress during the four years that have now passed since that government began ruling. So there's nothing we can do from a strong General. There's nothing we can do from the Council of Independence. There's nothing we can do about it from the General who's active in implementing the Commission. There's nothing that we can do from the Council that can be unpleasant if it has something to do with the public. I insist that most of the matters asked for during the council and throughout history have been that all the information desired has to do with the public. They're in the interest of the public, the interests of the public, the interests of the people, the national interests, if you wish to be prophetic. In this regard it is clear that although this matter is good, it is not over. The way ministers respond to queries has to be greatly improved. Well, that's somehow the way, Mr. President, because I'm bored with using the word "webbling," that if it never started, we wouldn't know what the fire department was. It's the same in this case. We can put it this way: If you don't put your hand behind you because you don't do it, you may not improve. Besides, I'm not at the point, although I'm well aware of the recruitment process, and I know that it usually doesn't have to be overkilled and the speed of work is quite high, there's something huge that needs to be done to increase the financial resources or to increase the number of staff in recruitments so usually to care for this factor, i.e. I don't think so. In other words, it would be possible for a person to make a special assessment of allowing it to be read in some way, by survey or by some means, to provide recruitment and government officials with an opportunity to assess the amount of time that workers spend paying attention to members of the body. I think there would be a lot more crazy in itself for the government over its head than if the Ministry had strong engineering, and some of them already do it, I know not quite what it is, so it is clear how the time is used and in what he goes on in each Ministry for itself. This would be for the benefit of those who work in the plots, those who control them, etc. It would also be a matter of human efforts to change the emphasis and to make decisions thereafter. It has also been stated about these inquiries that it would be proper for members of the council to use the rights they have to make unprepared inquiry to minister. And they obviously take advantage of it. But it must be said at the moment, and I feel somehow now, it may just feel, that the last year specifically, the reply of a minister in an unprepared question period has become less poor. Maybe I'm barking at the wrong tree, but I think somehow, in the past year, we've come to the empty cabin with the councilmen. There's a question about something you would have thought they should be so clear about, but the answers have been quite unbelievably poor in some cases. I'm not going to go over these examples here, but I'm going to expect to account for them in another field. Mr. President. To say this, I expect I will even accept this case as it already is. I am happy that the committee canceled its deadline, this time for 25 years, because I would not have felt good Latin, since the deadline had been increased about ten years ago that we were extending the claim of the Ministers every ten years to some future. I don't like Latin. It's like increasing the maximum rate if you drive too fast, or if you want to drive under the influence, I'll take two subsurd examples. However, this case, as it has been prepared, requires more work, calls for further reviews, requiring further research on how the Ministry is equipped to answer, that they know more about the time of the Ministry. But hopefully this case, as it is proposed, will be to promote the General Assembly in the end, in order to promote the independence of the Council and its own will and its members of the council here, and to promote them in asking difficult questions as well as the answers to questions concerning the interests of the people of the country. That's what foxes are cut off for. And if this issue is to further it, it is only good to say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u128	The president allows himself to question the possibility of extending the deadline for 25 years, as a president was heard before. A senator says, as it would be perfectly in place. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u129	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u130	But it would have been 25 days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u131	Some have had to wait for some year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-01-104.u132	President. I can't help passing on a little about this matter, and maybe especially what was discussed here last time. First, though, I want to start with, both because it is good to do so and also because I mean heartfelt commendation. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for having held this matter inconspicuously in his head. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. It is difficult to deal with these, these and other issues that are under the committee, such as election law, so it is not easy to keep all threads holding through it all. Hv. A senator is to be commended for his success. I just wanted to make some of the changes presented here, one in a committee program. Board of Directors and Observation Committee but one of the bill originally arrived from a Parliamentary Committee. I think we can be quite content to have made these many changes, if not all, to a great improvement. Some in this hall probably wanted to see something of this different and other things going further and the rest of the few. But we must take into account all the viewpoints when making the rules that all of us must heed. I think it's been pretty good here. Only in the matter of a minister's reply, since there was a considerable discussion on the committee, I feel that it is important to face all aspects of that matter. I believe, Mr. President, that in 2011 it was decided that the return time would be 15 active days. There is no holy number. It is not the Constitutional right of members of Congress to get an answer within that period of time. This was determined according to the circumstances at the time to be reasonable and a reasonable deadline. Since then, things have changed. There has been a change in the number of queries that have indeed had an impact, but it has also changed that the Ministry has taken longer to answer queries regardless of their number. So both have happened. There's been talk of penalties here. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson spoke of it first. It's fine that we keep it in mind that the current Congress code says, by permission of a president: ▪ If a minister fails to respond to the inquiry within the period set in this article, he shall write to the President of the Generals, as well as to why and when an answer to the Council will be expected. So to meet the highest. It is difficult to see that the Minister of the law of the assembly that he will fulfill his rule and that he will not offend. However, we discussed on the committee whether this need to be sharpened, that there is logical support if there is no way to answer within the deadline given. Logic support that would have to be considered both for president and even for that. A senator who owns his inquiries every time. In other words, it would be more conversation over why it could not have been answered, for that could be a very reasonable reason. I'm sure of that, Mr President. The Senate will continue to work on the law of Congress, for it is very important that they are constantly developing as the circumstances change. I am absolutely convinced that this is one of the things that will be considered. In my mind it is simple that if any phenomenon such as inquiries greatly increases, one of two must be watched; either it takes more time within the same host to answer them, or it has to increase the number of employees who work to answer the queries if the injury, the time, should be maintained. That's what I think. Senators need to look to the future: How many queries are left here? What is the number of employees who respond, and at what time? And in that work, always keep in mind the right of members of Congress to ask questions and get answers to them.
