ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u1	A respectable president. The lack of housing and housing is and has been a ongoing problem in many areas of the country, and the lack of apartments in many places has prevented the development of job structure and community development. The new report on the development of housing markets outside the southwestern corner confirms that housing conditions have been resolved on far too long points. However, significant structure and planning are now being initiated, which may include: It can be attributed to the new support systems of government and rural society. That work is being carried on by the highest order. Director of Social Affairs and Child Affairs Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son. Yesterday, the site was secure, a cooperative site on construction of the region, opened. In addition to being a web of information, loyalty is based on the cooperation of all those involved in housing in the country. Through the site, bioavailability is largely improved, and it can be found in one place, all the main components of the land's housing. The website has available information on the tools and support measures of the state and rural organisations now in use and can be used to stimulate housing. There are special local loans, stock contributions, settlements, share loans, partnerships with the government hired buddy Brieth, and so on. The Web websites also provide information on housing projects that are now being carried on, and what are taking place in homes in all parts of the country, such as Húsavík, Akureyri, Dalíkíkíkías, Hörgár, Theing Islands, Kaposker, Faust, Deserts, Deepvogur, and so forth. This can be looked up in part of the country. This tissue shows black in white that the resolution and the frost in building an apartment building have been broken after a long break. The information on the web can be useful to all who are looking for a building in the region, looking for ways and models.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u2	Mr. President. It is at the height of the first eruption of nearly 800 years when the Smokeman Peninsula is started. The people of the land are eager to observe and even go for a long walk to strike the volcanic eruption themselves. But the soda of Gedingads is not an innocent event. There are dangers and the need to provide interested ones with the best information and guidance and to have public security and relief groups in such areas. I believe, Mr. President, a large proportion of the population have become experts in geology in the last days. We're all becoming geologists. However, it is more than just lava that makes the chimney sound, which also generates a large quantity of dangerous gases, and even more so because of the depth of the earth's surface. We are familiar with such gases as carbon dioxide and other harmful gases that we have called greenhouse gases. Thus, the gig in Gedingadala produces more of these gases than industrial nations like Britain or Germany. There are striking facts, especially when it comes to discussing geologic scientists between them that the eruption may last for years. It brings to mind that our activities on climate, but in that category the government has contributed a huge amount of money. Where's that money gone? There is silence. What we see is that in recent years, staff and organizations in this area have increased dramatically. It is now planned to add a billion more to climate. This is shown in a financial program that is now being developed. What's the money to go to? Where is the assessment of the effectiveness of these measures? Or is this once again to bust out the booth on the left man's watch? Me and the middle class have talked about practical solutions in these matters. We've been talking about increased forestry for carbon binding and burning our waste within the country rather than taking it to the foreign land to be burned with all its components.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u3	Mr. President. I can't say I've been beaten, but there's more to hurt than beatings. A few years ago, an older person confided in me, and then I gave a lecture on violence against the elderly during the study course of the Iceland Age Association in 2003. Violence against the elderly is certainly a hidden problem in Icelandic society and has been a long time. It is said that there may be somewhere between 21⁄2-10% older people who experience such shocks, different depending on how they define it. As in the case of this old person, I had mentioned at the outset, so there was one part of the violence against the elderly and often led to harassment. It doesn't stop if people reach a certain age. Although relationships will be 67 years of age, violent relationships do not end. It is good, then, that, at present, Reykjavíkurburg's well - being has raised this issue, and Helga Hannesdóttir writes on this subject in the newspaper of News today. Often there are close - knit individuals, so these things are hidden and people do not carry this grief into the public square. But this is a social ill that we have to face as a community, and we are to find ways to take action and defend these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u4	A respectable president. The clergy of the government in antiviral defenses because of the British variants of the virus have been identified. Unfortunately, the government has just crapped the back of the Covid case and it's both in the vaccine case and particularly in the protection against the virus on the border. [[The president calls.]] 17 were diagnosed with the Korean virus in a country known to date. 14 patients who were diagnosed were in a contagion, and three were out of a contagion. So many have not been identified here in one country for a day since the November/December convention. Then they'll leak the border as they've been for a long time. There were five of them yesterday, three of whom were diagnosed in the previous border difference and two in the second. Of the 17 patients diagnosed with the crown virus last night, a large percentage were children and some were extravasation. What will the government do about it? Does she continue mediocrity, or does she dress up and act quickly? The government's management practices in the Covid business are in no way acceptable after the approval of new CDC laws. They have failed by not using the available new options. What's next? Red carpet for the Brazilian virus from the East Fjords because it's where it boils aboard a ship with a sauerkraut? It is not good for the government to continue to be a mediocrity, or fanciful, of having been too late to close the border to the British virus, since it is better late than never. " Let's close everything down immediately,'says a group of people. Sæland Goad, president of the Party, said this a year ago in Kasht Light, and was mocked. But considering the situation today, we were in The Gang of the People right to us, the whole time. Yeah, we're totally right. The government has released the fourth wave of crown virus, and the British species are in the country, and Brazil is waiting to be released there as well. The people say, " It's time to lock everything up, to make the most hard meeting boundaries, or as if they were the worst in the winter. ' That's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u5	The President has to encourage you. A senator is able to convey his views through a language suitable for homes. The president makes serious comments to any language. A senator used it earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u6	Mr. President. It becomes more evident each day that such calamity was evident when the government decided to tie their religion to the European Union in providing a child against the crown virus. We see, however, that in many parts of the world, it is quite possible, since the countries that were with us in the EU have tried to break out from there, such as Denmark and Austria, and have been far more successful in vaccinating than has the Icelanders. In Britain, too, all who are 50 years of age have already been vaccinated. We are fighting to complete vaccination at 80 years of age and older. We have not provided materials for the full vaccination of health care professionals. Now it is time for the long - range mental - health practitioner to be swelling, and he noticed yesterday or tomorrow that vaccine exporting to Iceland was incorruption. This has been painted here several times, but it has been taken with traditional presumptuousness. It's time for us to think seriously about doing something here. I have to ask, like, what? paritaprevir The other day, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir did: Why have they not been working with Britain, which seems to be getting very effective at vaccinations? There is nothing to wait, and the government has proclaimed that it seems that long before sheep resistance is reached. [[The president calls.]] That's serious, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u7	V.E.G. President. The reason for making a decision to distinguish a sample from a laboratory in Denmark was said to be to ensure the quality and safety of the ministry. Most experts have expressed themselves in that they question that statement. No experts on the outside have thought this necessary. Everything's been going on in the back. In the past, cervical samples have been found to be subject to tenders, but there is no such thing as exodus. Now there are some women who still wait for the conclusion, women who had a vision many months ago. It takes months to wait, and that's what's happening for months in complete uncertainty. It is the health care of the capital area that is responsible for this mess. All this process cannot be called a failure. I've requested a Persian welfare committee's opinion on whether these physical health care of the capital area will be met by a personal protection law. It can hardly be reasonable to send a sample to a foreign country without informing the person giving the vision. All we women ask for is that the service ensures safety, quality, and dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u8	Mr. President. I'm going to agree with other members of the council who have entered the II Parliament's symposium today and expressed concern over the situation now in the growing Covid virus in the community. It's not just with senators who worry about it. The entire nation must be deeply concerned about the rapidization of infectious diseases, especially among children and adolescents. The government's meeting now, Mr. President, at an emergency meeting for the position that has arrived. There is a proposal made by Sólfi Þórólfur, a Guðnason physician, regarding possible intensive action in the country by the crowning virus epidemic, which the government will address and introduce to the press conference at noon. Mr. President. I urge the government, I urge the government of Iceland not to compromise the advice of a hospice surgeon, as was done here on Monday, but to continue to listen to our most skilled experts and to listen to the counsel from there, and not to listen to voices coming from a certain arm of Independence Party that is supposed to relax everything. Now is simply not the time, Mr. President. We must take more decisive measures to prevent further spread of infectious diseases. Speaking of the EU malfunctioning in vaccine distribution, we would have been better paid to negotiate with Britain or Russia or China or who it is - such nonsense, Mr. President. Britain may have made a deal with its own pharmaceutical company, which is why so many have been vaccinated in Britain. It plays into nationalism, not international cooperation and internationalism, as it did in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. We're all in the middle of a government press conference and hopefully there'll be some good news that comes from that meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u9	V.E.G. President. How good it is that in the bill for air travel, now entered into the council, 146 is more specifically included! .. that says, by permission of the President: The European Commission is a member of the European Commission and is a member of the EU Member State of the European Union, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, This is a fundamental issue in which individual rural areas are prevented from countering the nation's major safety concerns. That's good work for the highest. A secretary of transportation is to commend him for this march. The national security interests require that a secretary be able to set ground rules for airports that walk beyond local, central, and division of rural communities. This will not end without condemnation, whether you look to the neighboring countries or to this world. Keflavour Airport falls, e.g. Today under the administration of the state. I think it's normal that other airports do the same thing so that there's a general rule on these matters, and my rural society can't get out of the way and act when it comes to so much security. Another example: A 2007 road law states that a community is forbidden to deviate from the road construction proposal, which results in less traffic security. Thus, the State can take over the local planning of the community as security stakes. The same line can be applied in a flight tunnel. Public security interests are above all other interests. We need to focus on securing the position of society's infrastructure and other vital social infrastructures that have to do with the security of the nation. In short, Iceland is far behind neighboring countries when it comes to national security in connection with the nation's major means of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u10	Mr. President. The British government's decision is now to expand its nuclear arsenal by 40% in connection with the renewal of their Trident nuclear submarines. After the increase, Britain will have more than 260 nuclear warheads to control. There should be concern for us Icelanders for many reasons, e.g. Because Britain is the nuclear power that lies next to us, the crew of these weapons will be at the Fallane Station at Clyde Fun in Scotland, also because by this increase in the feet of the British NPT Convention on a ban on the spread of nuclear weapons, which is here an obvious violation of Article 6. His talk. The decision, therefore, will undermine the NPT Convention and reduce the likelihood that an agreement will achieve further development. This is far more important in view of the fact that Iceland, like other NATO countries so far, has concluded that it is not desirable to sign the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons but to work on such a ban within the NPT Convention. Of course it's not working. I'll remind you why. Senators of my Congress and other members of Congress that Iceland becomes a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. It is clear that today, such as a pandemic and a climate, the real thing is that neither nuclear war nor nuclear war will help us to cope with that conflict but that is what makes the problem even bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u11	A respectable president. Today, the eyes of people and people around the world are directed toward Mount Grindavik, to the Valley of Fedinga, a volcano. I've called it lava, which is forming a Freckle because it's about a lot of beautiful things. Yes, they are beautiful, and people are now flocking to see it. And it's very beautiful. We don't yet know if it's going to be lava or how it's going to develop, it's gonna have to be revealed. There is also something beautiful about everyone's being able to see the lava and that it is not a threat to the interior or to the life and health of people. I feel that it made some relief for us Grindík, when the earthquakes ceased, and some conclusion came in the course of events. This is not to say that this remains to be a challenge for public defence and response, for the local community and for landowners. I want to thank all these agents for how fast and effective they have responded, primarily to ensure security, but also to allow people to experience this great and remarkable event. Some call for footpaths to be laid, even grounded, and set. This takes time, however, and much needs to be considered. I think we should just celebrate the orderlyness of the people and give them time and space to keep planning this so that everyone can come, secure their safety, and experience the great vision that is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u12	President. I'd like to be the subject of a bill. The minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, for the constitution and for the changes in it, to be discussed at the moment. Board of Directors and Control Committee. It has been particularly interesting and enjoyable to discuss this subject as a representative of that committee. It has been a pleasure to see the reviews of those who have sent in such reviews and the visitors who have visited us on the committee because a number of references are encouraged by the Generalis to take the initiative at last to establish a change in the constitution. In particular, these include the Fég of Deaf people, who see the human right of their members to insert legal requirements for Icelandic Sign Language into a constitution. It is our responsibility to grant that plea. This especially caught my attention from a century, a group of sustainable democracys. Its representative urged a meeting of the European Commission and review committees to avoid becoming overseparated in the 2012 National Court. Rather, he instituted the Constitution. It may be right to state, Mr. President, that I received a special permit from an informed representative to quote his words. In his case, he said that he feared that we would be restored to the issue of national pay and order, and he would throw away the opportunity to change the constitution for the better and finally enter the constitution of the national property of natural resources. I'd like to quote the company's comments, Mr. President, at the end of my case: It is important to believe that such provisions will be adopted in this terms of terms in the country's constitution of resources, nature and language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u13	Mr. President. All of us know that our community has made great sacrifices in connection with the struggle against the spread of the adult crown virus, however, in varying degrees. The economic blow has been heavy, but it is not easy. We are so fortunate in our country that the situation has been very good when we look to other countries, and thanks to it, especially to the public, who in this struggle has shown their strength and harmony in times of need. But now we all wonder when life will return to normal. You have to say, " It's an old, well-known theme. ' It's done on the border, and there's a setback. Of course, open borders are a major part of our normal lives, not to mention an important economic interview we all await. In view of the situation, however, the reality of the fact is that the open border translates into a wide range of disease prevention measures within the country. It is simply a very costly operation and is not likely to be, naturally, that the public's tolerance for this dance up and down with each setback is reduced. He also pays the bill and an economic assessment of the benefits and failures of these actions has not yet been clearly established. Governments are expected to be a way out of this situation. Now, the situation of vaccination in this country is no place to shout, so I'm going to use my voice. But all right, that's government expectations. Our plans for the government are that they have a plan that will move us, not one step forward, and one step back and forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u14	A respectable president. It was reported this morning and the last days that a number of infections had been identified here. Today, three of these infections have been called extravasation. This is followed by an announcement to the government's press conference today. Residential work is being upset. I think a conference will be delayed after the end of this program here and a discussion that would be requested on a financial agenda will be delayed. Reports are that this year's promise of a normal life in the country, with its great closes and number limits, is being announced for intensive action in the country. So the root is three diseases that can be detected outside the convalescents. I would like to use this opportunity and this field to recall it only here, only to be revised in February so as to substantiate the most lawless measures that had been carried out. So it was. In an effort to live up to human commitments to constitution and human rights in general and to live in most Icelanders, the average of all prevention measures was given. I find it lacking here that the council and members in general care for these matters in the light of the new treatment laws, with the changes made. I give as an example of an unfashioned discussion of a vaccination certificate last week, which took no note of the changes made on cross-cutting laws that clearly state that it is not permitted to stop vaccineing across the border of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I encourage Congress to bear in mind its legal role and current laws in the country when it comes to the moderate use of disinfectants.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u15	Mr. President. We'll discuss a financial plan later today. I'd like to grab this opportunity and remind us of some facts. First of all, unemployment in the highest level, which is, of course, unacceptable. It is also right to remind us that there has been a higher unemployment rate since the start of Covid than in any other country in OECD. Inland is the highest inflation of all European countries. Most of the Hungarians compete with us for it. This isn't a good sign. Then I'd also like to point out that the crown's gang swings from time to time. Two years ago, the gang science level was about 178 points, 214 points in September last year, yesterday in 193 points. I don't know what she's doing today, but I saw her walking around. In English, it means that a refrigerator costing 178,000 dollars. Two years ago, it cost 214,000 a year, but last night it cost 193,000 dollars. The swing of this small example shows that the person who bought at the worst time paid 36 thousand more than the one who bought at the best time. The difference is no less than 20%. That's how the dollar makes its own houses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u16	A respectable president. Today, three weeks have passed since the General Assembly agreed to my request and 25 other members of Congress on a health - care report regarding cases designed to screen for cervical cancer and its study aspects. In this case, there are many important questions that are asked to be answered, answers such as the basis for the matter and the reason and the work, answers that may hopefully arise to rebuild and restore women's trust in the system. That's what you think, that's what you're talking about. The latest news is that the project has been offered in a relative way, information about it has been provided without the recommendation and the order of action. I've come up here to remind you of this request for our senators. It was requested and requested that members of the council be consulted to find an independent party to report the report, and I would like to sharpen a health minister to get started at this point. It has been three weeks, but the Minister has ten weeks in accordance with local regulations to report this report. Many big, important, and important questions are there where we need to know the answers and how bad it is to be getting started on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u17	Like what? Today, members of the council are likely to be aware of the change in circumstances. The government is sitting at a meeting, and then there is a prospective press conference, so it is not possible to start over the discussion that was next scheduled at the end of the vote, i.e. ... abouta financialprogram. This meeting will now be postponed until the next hour. 16 Then there is the hope that there will be an opening at votes and then a financial discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u18	The president would like to state that he sees an agreement that may last longer than a body of Congress and, in fact, longer than a special agreement to be held in this month. However, a night meeting is not planned. The president considers this as acceptable if no one says anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u19	Mr. President. Available bill lacks careful planning. Instead of laying the groundwork for official support for innovation, it seems that the bill is most concerned with putting down the New World Center of Iceland and bringing some of its projects into private institutions. Government action has already caused a great deal of uncertainty over the future, not to mention unsurpassed behavior to staff of the New World Translation Centres. Hv. A professional committee worked hard to break the cracks, and to support her decision to make changes by the middle class. Mr. President. The budget for the planned private parting society has not yet been established, but the construction project has not been adequately completed. I wish that the case will be settled for a moment. The job committee between discussions so that the committee can have the opportunity to review these important but unfinished aspects of the matter and the following other relevant events.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u20	A respectable president. The employment board has made a positive and significant change in the case in cooperation with the Ministry and the Committee. These include the strengthening power of launch under continuous long - term construction research and loyalty. A new saying is new; but it counseleth, and ministereth in all the land. It is free and is also supportive of applications. The digital structure environment is supported, and the project fund is inserted into the Law text. The rights of staff are even more clear and loyal, and after two years the highest will be. Ministers report how successful it has been, how it has been, how it has been, how it has spread, and how technology's function has developed. Let us all settle down and make this case legal and consider it after two years and see how it has been accomplished, but I believe that it is well prepared as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u21	Mr. President. As noted above, the main decision to bring down the New Creation Center and establish the Technical Environment of Iceland is to respond to the Minister's decision. The members of the greater section provide some necessary changes to the bill supported by the Group of the United Nations. Still, the grounds for the legal procedure remain unclear, and analysis work that would have been proposed for the case would have been underestimated or even absent. Then the time frame of the transition process is too short and the Agency has not been developed to shape the processes involved in the major activities of the Agency. Similarly, there is no management plans, and there is more to mention. So I agree with this request. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson says that the matter will be brought into question. In view of all of this, the conviction of the Union council that there was reason to prepare the matter better has rarely been as much need for innovation and support as it is today. So we'll vote against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u22	Mr. President. I'm sure that the issues and the changes it brings are for the overall benefit of the innovation environment, that they will lead to a more careful consideration of the individual projects being carried out by the Agency. We are setting more priorities for the government's contribution for innovation. We are adding largely to the support of the rest of the new creation, and we further promote it. With the establishment of Technology, we are finally building what has been spoken for a long time, and we find the power that has followed the plans before the council that we have started, especially in many parts of the country. There are virtually endless tasks that are starting to promote the rest of the new world throughout the country on the basis of each area.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u23	A respectable president. It's a classic job in which a decision is made, and then you'll be able to take care of what's to be replaced. The already existing bill will not answer very well. It is rather unclear what the phase of the first phase of innovation will be according to the bill we now vote for. It's a very short bill, there's a rough line on how something could possibly be arranged in this field, but there's nothing to do with the organization we had once, which was shoveled out and something vague is replaced. It's not normal to do work like this. A minister should be able to do better. The Senator should be able to lower his leg and say, "We don't take on this kind of work. "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u24	Mr. President. I believe that the bill has advantages, and it has a certain thought that pleases me. I feel, however, that there is some flaw in the way this has been accomplished. It hasn't been done well and it hasn't been prepared well enough, and I'm sorry. I think the situation is that these changes are hardly going to be made, but I can agree with those members of the council who have considered it desirable to bring the matter into consideration, but I don't know if they have any results. However, our conclusion in resurgence is that we will be sitting by the release of this case on the grounds that it is not properly prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u25	Mr. President. As I could of them lay down. Professionally called on to beat on the failings of this bill, which is neither careful nor sufficiently thought - of. Well, me and the media are here to support suggestions. Named. They are good as far as they go, but in other respects, we do not support this matter for the reason I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u26	Mr. President. While the members of the Central Party do not support the efforts of reorganizing and laying down the work of the New World Translation Centres, where the root of this bill is, we support this bill, which is necessary to improve under the activities of the Technical Development Fund, which plays an important role as a competitive fund in innovation. With the bill, a main policy is to cut a set of existing laws and to paste into a special fund with minor modifications to the members of the Central Party at the head. The employment committee, together with a greater proportion of the Committee, is behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u27	A respectable president. There was probably no more talk about any point in the global and educational committee on this matter than the great and urgent problem facing young boys in the school system. Instead, in the opinion presented here, it must be concluded that when the broad aims of this bill are being addressed, the greatest priority is to deal with the urgent problems faced by boys in the school system today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for her work. We are at a critical point. We're accepting education policy to the year 2030, where we promise we'll be here with an excellent educational system. We are going to follow a plan of action that will deal with the issues mentioned in the committee's opinion. We can be optimistic, we're putting our arms around the situation, and this is the first time that's approved here at a conference of education in such a long time. I want to thank the Committee very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u29	A respectable president. Educationism is important because it covers the way to the future, how we see our goals, how we see our education systems developing, and how we develop to meet challenges that will confront society in the years to come and right now. Their reviews were many, and their red thread was: First of all, the speakers rejoiced that educationalism had developed. Second, it would be important that the induction program be clear, follow-up, responsibilities, and so that funding would follow the actions to be undertaken. On this point the committee stressed a great deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u30	A respectable president. It is important to develop a good, powerful education program, and in the educational system, there are many challenges that are important, and understandable that it may not be possible to put them all directly into such an extensive policy. Nevertheless, I welcome the much discussion and the emphasis the committee places on the status of young boys in the educational system and on the discussion. It is of utmost importance that the Council send such strong messages along this course, and I consider that the execution of this policy will follow its instructions and that I stress that it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u31	A respectable president. The nature of the matter is generally expressed as to goals in this educational policy, but the goals are all valid, and hopefully they will succeed. I would have chosen that these fine goals will better be seen in the financial program we are discussing in the near future. But there's something else I miss from this academic policy. I made a simple search in education a single word, and it had become a play. That word is not on course, and I miss it because it's supposed to be a game to be taught.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u32	Mr. President. There is a fine price to pay for having a learning policy here, but it needs to be clear and specific and so that it can be worked out. It's really supposed to be a game to learn, but unfortunately, it's not like all children in the modern education system. Then I'd like to agree with the words of the Chairman. General and Education Committee. I also have a lot of concern about the position of boys in the school system, and I come up here to encourage him to represent the United States Congress party on the way to the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture to provide a targeted, funded and time - appointed system for improving the status of boys in Icelandic school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u33	A respectable president. It is a pleasure that we are here to accept education, and its goals are valid, but they are very common. Here are a set set of priorities without a clear focus, responsibility, or reevaluation. I'd also like to mention it, because this is the missing words, that I'd wanted to see more and deeper discussion about a basic education program in our readable system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u34	A respectable president. In the next decade, there will be challenges for the education system that I don't think is fully achieving and may not be possible in academic policy, since society is rapidly changing with technology and other things. We need to be alert to the changes that are beyond the corner, to observe carefully, to intervene, and to participate if that is the case. As I came to speak last night, I feel like, for example, Missing range for spontaneous study analysis, e.g. the use of artificially-diagnosed persons that can be worked with and is e.g. We're going into a financial program. It would be interesting to see such things coming into education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u35	Mr. President. In the academic policy here, votes on many beautiful words and good goals are like people who have long worked in the educational system all before seen. Although it has been discussed many times and decades to reach specific goals, such as the increased education and many more good things in this course, we cannot give up, so we must continue on the road. But writing is not enough. I'd like to use this opportunity to point out that in the financial programme that has been approved and those in the management board have said to be in the next term, for the next five years, money is not expected to carry out this policy. Much of what there is will cost a lot of money, and it is not expected in the five - year program that is in force but is reduced when it is put together as a guide on academic matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u36	Mr. President. You can see one of the best points in the committee's opinion that follows this suggestion how little it is in the redness. But the committee's opinion, as good as it, does not solve this suggestion that is basically a container of nothing. The suggestion is not the means by which we need to improve our educational system, which is a poor part, and it is not the guide we need right now to improve our education system. Therefore, this policy cannot be agreed; it is a package around almost nothing. We Middle-class people are sitting by this desk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u37	Mr. President. We're here paying a vote for a bill that's facing the rurals. They carry the heat and the weight of the most important platform and closer to the inhabitants of this country and have their interests and well-being from cradle to grave. During the present epidemic, many rural communities have been in a crisis and have had to take measures that have taken important service in the first place. In that troubled situation, rural communities have frequently expressed themselves, following the initiative and the elevation of the government and each step in the direction of celebration. It is important that in all aspects of this legislation, individuals and companies will be treated with equal force, transparency of state, and agreement between rural societys for the implementation of the law. In their confidence, the United Nations is supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u38	A respectable president. This is where we vote for a bill to legalize various laws relating to local society affairs, rural society, and Korean epidemics. So they say: Various reactions to the Koron virus epidemic. This suggests increasing authority on the rural community to abandon financial laws and to increase flexibility in the collection, as well as to provide permission to react to epidemics or natural disasters, and at times the telecommunication that will be permitted to continue. Further changes in it are planned in another bill later on this council. This bill is my support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u39	The talk will thus be followed by the talk. Financial and economic ministers will speak for all members of Congress and then uphold the norms of speech. Enforcement must be granted to the minister's debate of history, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups can respond to the minister's speech. After that, Prime Ministers will participate in discussions about individual lawsuits today and tomorrow. One member of the Parliament is expected to speak from each category, with the exception of members of the local council. However, members of Congress may decide that two members of the Parliament speak for just two minutes each. The nature of the matter, however, will not be allowed under this part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u40	V.E.G. President. I recommend a judicial hearing on the financial agenda for the period 2022◯26, which has been distributed on the roof. 1084. This fourth financial program of the government is an unusual end in September. As a result, the period of the programme is in a new rate, and the next budget will be submitted by a new government. Then, at the end of the last year, the General Parliament has completed a detailed discussion of public financial policy, as well as the discussion of policy, aim and implementation of all causes of suffering. Thus, in the implementation of this programme, changes were not made in the basic financial picture but in the process of making the update a more significant change in the income-and-expension-side. This strategy, therefore, is primarily devoid of public interest, which is a twofold role: support the economy and ensures its resistance until we see a clear improvement in the workforce and, on the other hand, in promoting the financial standing of the state of the economy again, in the corresponding financial strength of the economy, heading for a shutdown in the public debt at normal speed. Here it is assumed that we will achieve the goal of halting the increase in debt ratio as a percentage of land production in 2025. In addition to the big lines, the plan will tell you a good story. In this story there are two messages: The right measures yielded results, and the situation is better than most people dare hope. It is a long way from default, and it actually takes a lot, and it is very interesting to look at predictions from early this year to see it by 2020. The sky is between them, and appearances have likewise improved dramatically. After the 2008 financial collapse, economicism vanished. We were early in the currency business, and the government fund quickly grabbed them for maintenance, and a home, and a company grabbed a hand brake. We now feel that the situation offers quite a different approach. To support the economy, we have put much more emphasis on making good use of economic conditions. The support has been made directly to both households and businesses in the form of financial contributions, but we have also made significant reductions in the uncertainty of home and business. The behavior of homes and businesses is reflected in this and is much different from that taken after the financial breakdown. Consider, for example, last year's consumption and investment and compare with what happened here in 2009. In general discussions, we may look primarily at national production, but if we take out the national production rates and investments under the term national spending, we will see very remarkable numbers. In 2009, consumption and investment were combined by more than 19%, compared to 1.9% in the last - 19% versus 1.9%, respectively. This figure reveals a lot about how homes value their positions and how their work looks toward the future. The fact that domestic demand was only slightly pulled together last year, although measures in preventing much of the household's consumption were accomplished in itself. There is evidence that homes and businesses rely on policy and believe that we will take a brighter time when this temporary situation ends. We are faced with a vast angle on the wealth of the state. Although this past year was smaller than we anticipated in advance, it was significant and more important, it is heading for a very high angle this year. It is an historicly huge limp on the government's terms. Remember, though, that the hatching that is forming is not a loss of money. He is protected from domestics and businesses, which support them through difficult times. The establishment of government funds has thus been a support to domestic production and services, a spark of living in companies, and a basis for future activities. Incomes were found to be far more stable because of these measures than in the last crisis. This situation has not been created in a void. It can be said that in the response of governments, there is one of the most extensive economic actions in history. Remuneration, tax declines, and coincidences, and tens of millions of direct support, and some indirect ways have been employed. The options are now at least over a dozen and have become even - minded in homes and businesses. We have supported those who suffered loss of income with benefits such as cutbacks, pay their dues on notice, a longer period of income - related unemployment benefits, and pay in an environment. We've been using the tax system by postponing tax pay, increasing reimbursement taxes, and temporary reduction in insurance costs. In addition, we have increased home income limits, and we have reduced individual income taxes most for the majority of the industry. The last step was taken for a recent New Year's Day. And may I just come here that we did what we said about the income tax despite being in one of the most economics we've ever experienced. It was, and it really is. Troubled companies have been given the option of a payment holder with a new legal system, and here I have not yet listed the wide variety of loans, support loans that we will next extend the reimburse and then all these direct contributions in the form of harvest workers that applied for the year, the maintenance grant that are now the closing grants that are back into the picture. It still applies to the closed grants in the law and to social Affairs Ministers have developed proposals for employment grants that are very important to the job situation. With the recruitment grants, operators will be given direct financial support to bring back staff. Looking ahead, financial plans will actually reflect policies for the last four years. In the Treaty, there was a policy for a significant improvement in the welfare systems, a major increase in investments, a decrease in taxes, and a very ambitious environmental objective. Thus, the force of a powerful economic growth was used to fulfill promises of greater well - being and buying power, along with a dramatic decrease in the debt of the State. You can see the consequences of driving around. These include health services, advanced education systems, increased emphasis on innovation and research, transport initiatives, the development of various legislation and land management projects, increased markets, construction of tourism sites, environmental and climate services, and increased reimbursement for the production of films in Iceland. So, it's a lot of goods. In the time of the present government, the framed expenditures of causes have increased by more than 80 billion in real value. In other words, we are returning directly to the strengthening of public service, to invest in the future in the present economic growth, but we keep our distance where we believe we are dealing with a temporary situation. This increase in framed expenses is an absolute 12%. Relatives have contributions to innovation, research, and knowledge, which most of us agree to be the basis for creating valuable future jobs, over 70% in the history of that government. V.E.G. President. Now I'm taking it into account that I'm changing from a current financial agenda. Economics'recent statistics show that economic activity was more than hopes and, in fact, much larger, than the trend in terms of economic growth in less recent years than previously predicted. At least, economic growth is always compared to last year. Because the contractions were not as strong as previously anticipated, economic growth is on a smaller scale than previously predicted. In contrast, the Haggis now predicts more growth over the entire period of the program than was foretold in October. The brighter image now displayed in the economy, and predictions are a source of great joy. Spain continues to be driven by the growing number of tourists and is expected to increase 700,000 in the year 50% since 2020. However, the number of tourists previously expected is nearly 200,000. However, in 2019 the number of tourists that arrived in Iceland is expected in 2019 C.E. The public interest and interest ratings of 2023/2025 have improved from an older plan to the beat with a brighter economic outlook. During the latter part of the period, up to 1.5% of gross domestic product is recovered, which is a significant change. The increase in income continues to advance the trend, although a quarter of the recovery is due to an increase in the value of GDP in an up - to - date national economy. Thus, as national production increases, its weight is reduced as a proportion of GDP increases. Then the underlying prospects indicate that debt status will be better than the last financial plan. Debates are estimated to be lower at the beginning of the period, and they grow slower. State funds debt as a proportion of GDP is expected to be 46.5% in 2025 or 5 percentage points below the current schedule. Due to improved underlying yields, the extension of measures shown in the current programme can also be significantly reduced by the improvement in the underlying yield for the 2023/2025 years. Interim contributions indicate less sliding last year than previously expected, as I have come in here, in which it is assumed that the State Fund's tilt was studied by about 200 billion dollars. or 6.6% of gross domestic product in 2020. It compares 70 billion with what we were working with here at the end of our last year. And what is behind this improved recovery? It is primarily explained by the more efficient economy that includes. Government action. There I would like to refer both to direct and specific measures in the economy, as well as to the areas of disease prevention, which have provided the basis for a strong personal consumption during the past year and up to this year. The reciprocal side is mainly clearer by the lower use of Covid products. Yet, it seems that part of these expenditures will actually be accomplished in 2021 instead of 2020. In the present year, the contribution of the state funds is estimated to be negative by 10.2% of gross domestic product, which is essentially in accordance with the relevant financial and financial programmes, but we must be careful not to get used to these dramatic numbers. Ten percent of the land production in a corner of the state's budget is a huge figure, and there's a lot of concern in the regular year if there was nothing in the maps to make a comeback. But we allow this huge angle to be formed to support handsomely good - looking people. We immediately said that we wanted to do more than less and had faith that it would bring back to us and the numbers we see today in 2020 support us in the very fact that it did so. We exceeded any projections regarding homes'status and the recession of the economy. This is a joy, and we are now saying with a new plan that we want to continue on this same course with these same emphasis. Not only can we do so but we can do better. The budget allows for a gradual improvement from the difficult situation I am describing, and eventually, in 2025, a positive element will be reached. During the 2022202025 years, the cost of a government budget will typically be about 10 billion higher than in the current financial programme, but income schemes are also about 25 billion higher each year. Thus, the contribution of the State Fund to about half a percent of GDP per year during the period is improved, and by 2026 the total rate of the State Fund is expected to be negative, a total of 59 billion dollars. about 1.4% of GDP. A respectable president. I will not be able to cover all the economic issues, but I would like to finally find that here we have a plan in front of us which shows, so that we cannot be sure that we have a solid foundation to build. We can have more results. The economy over the past few years gave us a turn-on, and we've made good use of it. We went ahead for signs of protection, protection, and resistance a year ago, but the time for the shooting is near.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u41	Five o'clock. Councilmen have requested an answer, and these are spokesmen who make positions of government opposition. So I'll let them in the same sequence that follows, i.e. depending on the size of a council. It's two minutes to the first pass and one minute to the second pass.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u42	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prehistoric finance minister. This new financial program shows that the result is predicted to be better, less debt collection, etc. Despite this positive sign of the government, at least Based on her opinion, unemployment in previous financial programmes is not to be expected to be lower in the period. This, of course, is a concern, and it is clear that this plan, Madam President, does not blow the thousands of Icelanders without hope. In contrast, in the United States, 1.8 million have been placed. every American in action to do so, including the U.S.A. to increase the number of jobs, but I've already been assigned here, about 540,000 dollars. Every Iceland. So here, the government is actually cutting a nail. I'm asking the highest. Minister: In what way will the government bring down the enormous unemployment crisis that is so worrying? We're talking about 4.5% at the end of the plan, which is all too high and this costs the nation enormous amounts, so that the spiritual aspect of all of this is not spoken of. I can't see that financial programs send them messages to these people that they should try to expand their jobs. It is not being used in terms of the government's budget, in my court, to increase the number of jobs through the private enterprise. Then you ask yourself, " Is this all in the right direction? ' When we're watching these huge unemployment statistics, a minister was able to handle it? If the highest. A minister might consider the extent to which the government provides for the recovery of this serious unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u43	A respectable president. My point was that we had done better than all forecasts, when it came back in 2020. Today's forecast of unemployment for the future is our greatest economic challenge. That's perfectly clear. That is why we need to set a clear course, draw solid support from it so that we can overcome the unemployment in the Economics of the Habitat. Actually, the plan is just about releasing the forces that can ensure that companies can move forward, e.g. in the field of tourism, where a percentage of all the unemployment in Iceland can find its roots, that tourism can advance. That's why we've been standing with these companies, helping them to get to a shelter, lie down, keep them alive through income and wood money, and so on. So, as soon as the light shines again, there's someone over there who can resist. In this sense, in this context, it is not the government policy that unemployment will be the way economic forecasts assume but the contrary. We're going to challenge these projections on our economic plan and aim to improve, provide space, use the automatic fluctuation equations fully, do not go to fiscal increases, move ahead with new expenditures, and invest in the future, despite having a solid plan for how we might end down because otherwise we don't get access to money. These are the key measures in conquering unemployment, investing in innovation, releasing energy that will ensure valuable future jobs. Success in preventing disease is part of it because it is important to the country's future tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u44	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I have to say, I feel that this plan is ambitious when it comes to these matters. It's all about tailoring this to something in debt. Then you ask yourself, " When unemployment is such an enormous amount of money, is my debt the most important thing to me? ' Unemployment costs huge sums of money, and this knows the highest. Secretary of finance. However, it is also discussed in this program that if there is to be an variation, as the plan says. There is evidence to suggest that there will be an aberration. We're looking at the situation in the viral epidemic, both at home, these new bad news, and then in Europe, so I think the predictions of tourists coming are very optimistic. However, this program of action is not expected because it is naturally uncomfortable for the government of the election year. However, it is not necessary to explain, and it can be the highest. A minister makes that clear? [[The president calls.]] So it's not likely that we'll have to have surgery at least. 100 billion, to cover the debt ratio as high as possible. The secretary of finance is so confined, but do they not look at the huge unemployment rates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u45	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u46	A respectable president. In my case here today, I have been calling attention to the fact that domestic income is much more stable now than it was in the last crisis. Although we worry that the investment level has not been sufficiently high, our business is not the same thing. The government is under attack too. We're sending about 400 billion to the economy last year and this year, and we have a record in the balance of government funds just to calm down all the years of increasing activity and support when we need it most. Then people come up here saying, "There's no ambition here in men." May I call attention to the fact that we have over 300 billion degrees in the government budget this year. It's about 40% of the government's income. If it doesn't seem to be an ambition, I don't know what people are asking for and when it comes to the fact that something we could do right now would create more jobs deep in the future, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the lost jobs in the tourism service were primarily when 2 million tourists left the country. That's what happened. This is not something you can talk about as if you had a general problem with employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u47	Madam President. The measures taken so that the government reaches its debt target in 2025, but he is confident to say where to go, only 90 billion dollars. in three years. In fact, they are for some reason called the resurgence of a government, which certainly sounds better than cutting and raising taxes, but means the same thing. Propagation assumes substantial unemployment in 2026 or about 5%. Thus, some 10,000 people will still be out of work after five years, far beyond the average of the past few decades. The way the government would like to overcome long - term lack of work is to reduce the pay level rather than increase its value. In recent years, innovation funding has been increased, but that support does not last for long, as after two years the figure has dropped by a quarter and by 34% in five years. In the long run, the government is not betting on innovation and development in articles that can be expected to pay more and increase production. The plan describes the underlying problem involving an increase in salary level over production. This may lead to long-term noncooperative activity, and here is a direct quote from a financial paper, by permission of the President, the labour market partners agree on a new and more efficient collective agreement model that can contribute to a balance in the labour market and increase this stability to the benefit of all. So the government believes that it is the responsibility of those with the lowest pay to take care of stability, and they must simply cancel their claims for compensation, or they may not get any work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u48	A respectable president. The answer to the last question that comes here is clearly no, for the government has shown that its actions, both in collective agreements and in the emphasis on tax matters, have become much more successful than in others. This is the new-born business. That government's rights would be just the newly created government because in recent years such changes have taken place that we have never seen anything like them. I traced it in my history earlier, a 70% increase in framed expenses for that topic. It is an enormous change and clear evidence that the government wants to believe in the intelligent people of the land, the initiative of those who are working to establish small companies, are in basic research, or want to attend a competitive fund that we have given up in order to follow up ideas that promise good. Remunerations, investment incentives - all come from the same well. We believe in the power and initiative of the people of the land, and we are trying to make it available so that these valuable jobs will be made available to the future. I don't see much disagreement with anyone in here on these policies. Then people can discern it, because I notice that people stay at the debt ratios - but there is nothing else responsible, especially when we look back and look at how important it is to be of low debt, to have a strong state's status when the crisis strikes, but to say that we must plan to close the budget to the future, though it would be a matter of achieving a basic balance which must be absolutely fundamental in 2025 and thus stopping the rise of debt ratios. Thus, we will not always plan to move the present problem to the future generations but will have a few years of plan to get it down gradually and to start building us up again when the situation is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u49	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for an interesting answer, although he did not get a lot into what is mentioned in several places on the program. It describes the systematic problem that is not enough for a high salary. But more on that later. In December, a health minister announced that special financial resources would be sought in a budget of 2022◯20226 for renovations at the home of the Hospital. This year the land hospital would have met up to 4.3 billion economic requirements. There is no comment on this agreement in the financial program for 20222/206, which is now being discussed, but it was promised that it would be. V.E.G. The health minister here said in a discussion on a budget bill 2021 that the crew and how it would be taken down would not be to limit patient service. [[The president calls.]] Is that not to be true?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u50	A respectable president. It is in itself that the sound of old age has just passed, and we have an agreement to make up the hospital plans that have been introduced to it will not be required to have it won. There is no need to sign in advance of that financial plan. It says everything that has been said on this subject. Only on the production and context of public remuneration. I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator is about to make comments in the financial program showing how fundamental it is that a workforce succeeds in an Icelandic labour market to emphasize increased production so that we can support being a high - paying country. Those who doubt this should, I think, go back to the beginning and ask themselves, " What is the requirement for high wages in Iceland, if not that there is great wealth in this country, great production in the work being done in the country? ' It's just a basic truth that I thought we didn't have to be arguing about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u51	President. In financial planning, governments submit their policies for the next five years, and in this financial program, it is simply a remake of policy adopted last December. It says on page 18. 163: ◯... The policy of the subject's domain is, in effect, unchanged. V.E.G. A minister says that policy works better than policy accepted, before the year is due. Then we had an economic forecast that said some things about inflation and employment development, etc. and we criticized the fact that there was nothing in a financial program to compare with what was foretold unemployment, nothing about it, nothing. What is it? The situation shows results. We have 12% unemployment, 4% inflation. We have less economic growth than expected before the last financial programme was adopted. We have more unemployment than was expected before the last financial programme was adopted. We have more inflation than we had before the last financial plan was adopted, and now we are going to have the same financial plan, and we expect us to do better. I don't understand how this works, Mr. Honorable President. If we do better with policy, but the reality is that unemployment is higher, inflation is higher, unemployment more, less economic growth, how does this strategy improve government policy? Because the situation tells us that it has not been successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u52	A respectable president. On the contrary. Let us see what the Kingdom Fund has to do with it. It compares some 70 billion with predictions. Consider the personal consumption, the status of the households, the level of pay that has never been higher in history. A reduction in economic growth during the year results from a higher rate of domestic production in the last year, and actually in the year 2019, than previously predicted. This year's economic growth is far less important than the fact that, by the year 2020, the land production is generally much higher, so it is not providing the forest for trees to attach to economic growths. We are not concerned about inflation, even if I hear it. A senator expresses concern about the level of inflation. Then I'd like to say, the market does not seem to be very likely. I'm pointing up a constant gang. I refer to the Court's declarations that it is not assumed to be a permanent higher inflation. I would point to the latest decision made by the Federal Bank on interest issues. Who is she? It is to maintain the lowest growth we've ever seen in history, to maintain it. Making such a decision does not constitute a great faith in increasing inflation. Last year's private consumption exceeded all expectations, including, I say, because of economic measures and also due to successful measures at the level of infection. These are signs that we did better. This is an optimistic plan, but the one approved in December, which is why I say: We're on the right track, we're on the right level, and we can continue to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u53	A respectable president. I find it a little difficult to compare apples with oranges here in the top case. Minister. I'm saying that economic growth project as it was in October of last year is better than it is now, despite government policy. I have every reason to assume that the result in a government account will be better than in this plan, just as it was last year. But I'm saying that despite government policies, the projections have gotten worse. If everything had been normal and the financial program adopted for a New Year's Eve would have been a good thing if she had influenced the forecasts better today than they were in October. However, we see that they are worse for 2021. That's what I'm talking about, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u54	A respectable president. It matters which meter you use to measure the results you are interested in measuring. Hv. A senator wants to use growth in national production, but I am pointing out that the national production level was up to 2019. The land production declined much less in 2020 than previously expected, resulting in the failure of growth in this year to increase as much as previously predicted. But when we decide what it is, the economics are no worse. They're better. We're in a much better situation than we ever had to hope and prospects are brighter than the last plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u55	Mr. President. It will late be said that the government has done much more than work in public investments in spite of great declarations. There is evidence that they have intertwined with what was intended and with what was before. Of course, it is very bad when such investments are just the same. This is also a bit odd in view of the fact that the government, as I said, has been quite effective in declaring great plans for public investments. I especially remember that one group I believe was the highest category. Secretary of finance, set out for the last election with a promise of 100 billion in investments. So the fact that the government has not been better prepared and that the European Commission has been so badly equipped to implement public investments in view of the importance of this means of working against a down cycle of government affairs. I simply want to ask the highest. The secretary of the budget to see whether he sees the government's performance in fulfilling promises of large investments, investments, is a sign of forethought and good government right now when we face this massive crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u56	A respectable president. As the moisture in the box 4 of this publication, financial plan, the budget has been growing in recent years, and we have been in a special investment campaign. After declaring a special campaign at the outset of this epidemic of 18 billion between 2020 and 2021, we have extended this campaign by 119 billion by 2020. It doesn't change, as we're traced, that we haven't been able to get all the financial resources that were guaranteed, both in budgets and in the budgets of the current year, to work as planned. It's rolled up, and I think it's done in a very transparent way and honestly, why it is. We set aside large sums of money in an effort to increase our investment rate in a short period of time, including To combat unemployment, and we especially choose human resources that increase national benefits and priorities, and we wonder why we do not accomplish better than we do when it comes to getting the money to work. This is introduced into a special box in the schedule. I think it is worth a little discussion on a budget committee, and we should consider it, just go down into the stitches, see if there's more involved in organizational factors -- then I'm talking about the laws on planning and dealing with rural society - or whether the institutions that are involved simply don't have knowledge, not even human resources, to work out as much money as we're here on. Maybe we should go to more invitations. I call attention to the fact that the U.S. Management Board has huge sums of money at tenders. We need to split it, but it remains after the government is in an investment campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u57	Mr. President. It's all right to the highest. Here a minister of finance admits that the government did not succeed and that it did not succeed. This is certainly sad because it is not as if the problem mentioned in the box 10 about public investments was not in the past. It now seems so enjoyable that in December 2017, the General Assembly agreed to a convention resolution program from Upstate, which included the Council. on these factors; on the guarantee of quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments. Nothing has been done with this. The government has proclaimed investments as shown in the report in the box. That bill was to appear last year. It didn't show then. It's supposed to be happening now, but it hasn't seen the day yet. It is a little late to begin making such changes when the need for all the investments has passed away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u58	A respectable president. The special investment campaign we are discussing here is the campaign we were making in the wake of the crowning virus epidemic early last year. What a challenge it is to get billions of dollars to work on a short notice, in a hurry! It's just a fact. That's a lot of money we're talking about. Some of the delays were out of control. As an example, I can mention that the speed at the construction of the land hospital has not been quite the one to hope for. Something is involved in the development of transport workers. But that doesn't change the fact that we've secured the budget, we've increased the state's investment level last year. We did. I have hoped that there will be considerable growth in the current year of investment, so we have not just financed the effort but are working hard to follow through on it. But I admit it completely, and there's nothing to beat your head at the stone, because there's something in our trunk, something in our pipe, that seems a bit blocked. [[The president calls.]] We must act, and we take it out specifically in box 10 what might be of help to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u59	Mr. President. We are here discussing the budget for the next four years. I've been turning this publication down and trying to find one word, see if it would happen just once, and it's extremely difficult to eliminate, or just eliminate, poverty, if it was found in this, if it was any ambition, and they didn't want to dust off any empty promises of the next election. But it's not in there. I think the government and the minister of finance have put their heads in the sand, so by saying they don't need to see poverty, not see people in line for food, they don't have to see the number of people who have doubled in their search for a hot meal. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said that there are a very small number of individuals in this situation, yet he is able to forget them. Yet, they are not part of his ambitions. It will also be clear if we look at the vision of the future that it is expected to be about 2% of inflation. We know that last time we paid 3.6% for social insurance pensions, the inflation rate was 4%. So there's always a shortage, and I'm sure we'll be in the future because the amount of social security is 2.5%. But at the same time, pay is expected to increase by 4%. There's still going to be a cremation of the gap. And why, in the next four years, does the secretary of finance not agree that this group, the small group we have succeeded in, living in poverty or in desperate condition, will be corrected, and will not remain in the same situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u60	A respectable president. So that's now explained, I've only said it, when it happened. One senator cites examples of those on social insurance, with no other income to support any kind of money, that group being relatively small. However, his situation has improved considerably in recent years, and I'm going to try to say that it is difficult to find an era in which the status of low - paying groups in this country has improved as rapidly and safely as it has been in recent years. This results from both the tax changes we've been making, where water has been particularly directed to the lower income end and the changes in the reformers. I specifically refer to changes made in 2016, not least to senior citizens but also to the emphasis we have put on strengthening our social security system, now last through a change introduced by the Social Affairs Minister. We have set aside a unique 4 billion fund to achieve exactly the goals in this field. But this is a challenge. My politics goes out to support a nation of valuables, so we can afford to stand with those who are walking in palaces. We are out the day, and we work on it here at the council what can be done on tax emphasis, in other aspects of the State's activities, what we can do to support companies, continue to encourage people, try to ensure that good ideas fall on productive soil to achieve valuable jobs. All of this is political emphasis, which is exactly what is meant by the view that this will bring about valuable things in the community to stand with them. A senator mentions. [[The president calls.]] So it's not only that you have political, that you also have to have solutions to meet the requirements for the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u61	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The financial secretary's answers are rather poor because there is no financial plan to help this group, and there is no ambition. At the same time, we see ambition when it comes to unemployment, 472,000 bucks, which is cool, that's great. But there are people out there who live at half as much as they do, trying to get to work at half as much. [[Up front.]] And you say that they should just keep trying to reach more than half as much as the others. We're talking about people who have to live on the rights of some 200,000 bucks. by tax. These are the people who are in line for food. These are the people who go to Sami's room to get hot food, the population has doubled. I see no ambition in this government to change this. This is not a major cost team in all of the Covid business that's going on and in other matters, and we can totally see to it here at the council to find the money to help these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u62	A respectable president. If we're just looking at the benefits of social security on the account of old age, we're spending this year around the year, and I think it's more than 10% of all government funds, that's exactly what it's all about. Then let's talk about those who are on the run in the social security system and we're going to make a big difference in the same money. You can't say that this is a small sum in any context. We can be proud of the amazingly strong well - being network that we have built in Iceland. What I'm simply pointing out is that in order to live up to it, you have to grow into something valuable in society. Indeed, our politicalism goes on to believe in freedom, minimal business, lower taxes, encouraging environments, to be optimistic, so that people can see a purpose in making a move and implement good ideas. It will eventually create a wealth of state to do better with these groups. For me, it's just that I don't know what to do. A senator simply wants to increase the government spending in this group, and I just point out that we have a 40% angle on the government budget this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u63	Mr. President. I said before in answer to the highest. The minister of finance that the financial program of this government would not allow the thousands of Icelanders who have no hope. I'll keep it. It is that my sentence is not to use the terms of the government's budget to increase the number of jobs through the private enterprise as desirable under these circumstances. So much unemployment that will be at the end of the period of 4.5 or 4.7% is all too high and is now very high for some time, proving to be very expensive and costly for spiritual reasons. In fact, Mr. President, I would like to point out that it seems that unemployment in a financial program now there are figures of registered unemployment, but not unemployment, as the Habitat presents its numbers, e.g. in the chart on page 5 of this magazine. 162 here on schedule, unemployment is reported to be 9.2% this year and 4.7 at the end of the season, but in the Habitat prophecy they have 7.8% unemployment for 2021, to be maintained. I also mentioned in opposition to the fact that the government has not been putting the funds into resources that had been desirable to reduce unemployment and to try to create jobs through the private enterprise. I mentioned the United States before, and it's already put 1.8 million. K. on every human child in the United States for operations including is expected to increase the number of jobs. But I've been appointed here to count 500,000. every Iceland, so they're cutting a nail. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. Mr. President. How much time do I have? Time has come up, should we say there are seven minutes left? That's a little small, isn't it? If Mr. President examines it for me. This plan will not address what will take place when the government's operations package expires in May and people will likely go to unemployment records. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said in the discussion that the situation is getting very fast, but I have to say, Mr. President, that thanks to the government isn't due to the fact that it's especially the private consumption and the apartment investment that makes the situation a better place than they expected now, and that it's also right to maintain it. The point is, we have a government that is entering the election with thousands of Icelanders out of work and a financial program that really doesn't do anything to counteract it. And, of course, this is very interesting in the leading of an election. But I say this plan is ambitious and discouraged because it is not taking the steps necessary to use the financial resources to work on this serious problem. Rather, it is about tailoring the plan to a debt ratio in 2026, that there will be less than 60% and more, tailoring it toward this conclusion, despite the lack of work and the largest national sector in intensive care. Or it could be said that in the plan they are given favors for various investments, which, in turn, have no basis for it. It's, for example. The national stadium we know is not worth a dollar in this program. Thus, there is empty statements in this statement. The government speaks of her spending so much of her activity as a result of the pandemic, while the figures speak differently. They're putting too little money on the job of working against this serious unemployment. That's exactly what the government constantly controls: an increase in innovation, up to 70%, but it's just not returning what it's due to, and we haven't seen any plans for its success. And it's unrealistic, Mr. President, I came into it earlier, assuming that this is 2 million tourists in 2022 and 2023, in the next two years. Of course, even if you want to be optimistic, you need to be realistic in these matters. The situation in the epidemic around us is in this way, and the news that was received today is far from good in this regard. I mentioned earlier that unemployment is all too high at the end of the season, and then we're here to attack future measures, as it is mentioned in the plan. But the way that this is done is not explained, and it is obvious that the government does not want to show the cards in this regard in the leading of the election. It will likely then be a cutoff of a dozen, or more than 100 billion. to achieve this multi-counted debt ratio which the government wants to cling to. Let us not forget that we have one of the lowest debts of Western lands, and this should allow us to make room for the best efforts to reduce this serious unemployment. As I mentioned earlier, the minister is quite pleased that a recession was 6.6% of land production last year. But there are homes that have been in debt and spending their savings, and that is, as I mentioned, that have made it less difficult to do what was expected of them. I have to introduce to you what I think is important to me, but it's the interest environment. The plan of the budget reflects an ongoing low-growing environment, which I think is just not realistic, Mr. President. It is a concern why we cannot finance more in these areas, for it is better to owe in our own coins than to take the risk of success. Then, the key factor is the efficiency, efficiency, and efficiency. There's an interesting chapter here in the plan I want to celebrate on page 6. 138 discussing government activity as being guided by results. This is a very important chapter that I encourage senators to read because, of course, it's the most important thing to do, that we can measure the results in a public fund and that we are making the most of this money. This is a talk that is truly important and vital. I see time is running fast, and I think that there's something mysterious about this clock, Mr. President, how it's set, but let it lie between parts. In this program, the management balance and the other things that I'm not going to repeat here are one thing to be clear about, and that is what the government will do if this virus epidemic persists. It is suggested that these specific support measures will be rapidly reduced during the year 2027 as well as that companies can survive on their own. And then we have a national immunisation program that will remain under the heel of the European Union with appropriate delays. All of this can have an effect that needs to be established in this program. Then we also come to the prices that have worsened since the last national forecast and are expected to increase private consumption by 2.3% this year and then more in the next year. This year the growth of public investments was foretold. Of course, we hope that all of this will come true. I would have wanted more and more detailed discussion, and hopefully we can do so within the financial committee, on this very lucrative budget, which is so important, to say what the results of previous funds have been. Is it, e.g. What results have been provided by the government's operations packs? No, I can't see that we've had enough success measures in this regard, and the public should, of course, be able to trust that public funds are new in a reasonable way. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I come into the discussion in a second discussion. I must say that this plan disappoints me, Mr. President, and, of course, I will consider it further in a future discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u64	President wants to point them out. It's supposed to be that there's nothing mysterious about the clock, there's 10 minutes left before the session. A senator like everybody else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u65	Mr. President. The government groups have already adopted their common policy in all the fields. That's what they did in December. This plan will only add numbers to the economics of the Habitat. The main news is that there is nothing to report. That's it. They're just waiting for the election. The budget report says, with permission of the President: ▪ If supported too soon, the economy will not be well established, and it will take longer and deeper economic degradation. On the other hand, if the economy is given support for too long, overheating with the associated inflation and raise is subject to overheating. I'd like to agree with these words, but at the same time question that the government has found the golden average in this regard. I was surprised to learn that the government's future vision for the next election period had already come and was adopted with a financial program of 2,22025. I expected that in the financial program that we are discussing here, the government seized the opportunity to tell how they wanted to make better use of the health system and to meet people and the most difficult territories in the pandemic by special measures, how they wanted to work against increasing inequities and support groups, which, according to a recent BSRB and ASI, suffer a financial shortage. But it isn't. The vision of the future is that the recovery will be done on a previous scale, a debt that is low in all international comparisons. The aim of stopping the increase in debt ratio by end of 2025 is what the government groups have agreed on, yes, and to add a billion dollars. Year on climate issues. That's all there was to it. The cost of the Covid crisis will be reduced in the long term if the state enters in a much more handsome way than expected by a wide range of labour markets and investments. The economy and unemployment work should be reinvented, more support for the job life, and the well - being and the loss of income while working between jobs. The government prefers to tie itself in a certain debt number at the end of the period and accepts the risk that the economy does not achieve sufficient standards and that we take longer and deeper economic degradation. The jobseekers and their families need to be handled with a more reasonable advance, a longer period of improvement, and a vigorous workforce. V.E.G. The minister of finance says that homes are quite good, but he is not looking to the more than 20,000 people without a job. We will not be able to work at the side of the Kingdom Fund unless we resist the root cause. Of course, the root of the problem is the Covid virus, and we were certainly reminded today that this is not over. It is of vital importance that we keep our minds fixed on the present situation, not just because it is important to our health but also to our economic situation. Jobs need to be created, investments in infrastructure, and targeted against inequities. The Economic Standards report that after five years, some 10,000 people will be out of work, far beyond the average of the last decades. This is precisely mentioned in the financial program, although new measures or more investment projects are not mentioned or anything else to cope with the problem. However, there is a problem, such as a systematic problem in the text, which includes a significant increase in salary levels over production and may result in more long - term lack of work than we have ever experienced before. Investment in education, infrastructure, research and development is intended to support production, but the economy may have a higher salary yield than otherwise, as the plan puts it. It's all true and true, but how does the government react? Newborn contributions were increased in the year and slightly increased according to the next year's budget, but within two years, donations have dropped by 26% and decrease by 34% in five years. Increased funding for innovation is called for, and it takes more than two years to meet these requirements and needs. The solution to the production problem is further support to the sector, which has fallen to increase production. The answer is not to call and pay for unreployed growth in industry, which yields little production growth and does not have good terms for the country. V.E.G. The government has found a solution and introduced it in the financial program. It is by permission of the president, not one of the most well paid jobs, but the one in the plan: It is important that the workers of the workforce agree on a new and more efficient collective agreement model that can contribute to the balance of the labour market, thus increasing the stability of all to the benefit of all. In this context, I understand the need to find ways to prevent any increase in pay that are low, such as many of the services being performed by women, young people, and immigrants. Mr. President. Diversity and profit - making investments are the basis for growing valuables and increasing investments will play a major role in getting us out of the economic crisis. Investment in wood has been too small in recent years, and it will take on all of us for a long time, if not corrected. A new report by the Industrial Association reports that the expected increase in public investment will little more than bite the cumulative maintenance need created after the last downturn. For the condition of the interior to be considered good, an even greater force must be put in public investments, and there is a need for 420 billion dollars. As the report says, make an investment in getting them to a decent place. We are not able to maintain the normal maintenance needs of the government's financial programme. In that way, despite the vast investments of Reykjavík's city, we are actually looking forward to a recession in our public investment. On the other hand, we'll be off too late. Farmers around the world who have trusted in the tourism services have an advantage. There is a very limited budget for investment, which will be affected in these delicate areas right now and in the long run. The government does not directly support these rural communities to meet their loss of income and to ask for more social services, making it much more difficult for them to attack large investments. The last fall when a financial plan was submitted, there was a trend toward a recession in the investment of the rural communities and a 7 billion - to - one reduction in the construction of the Road project. At the 2021 Association of the Industrial Organization, it was reported that there were fewer projects than expected. In this crisis, we need to place the funds in the right places. The funds must be searched in the structure that counts and that is long - termly profitable. Money needs to get to the people who are in the crisis right now and in the internal investments that support the job. We know that these investments are useful to most men during performance. Some 85% of the jobs produced in the implementation of government investments are men's work. Therefore, our assessment of the United Nations also calls for an investment in the health, education, and welfare systems that have traditional women's work and an abundance of people. We're supposed to increase the number of nurses, hospital staff, and caregivers by any means necessary. These are our futures, and they are under a lot of stress right now, and unemployment is widespread among women. Its vast, valuable forces are ruined, and society is all for the benefit of it. Mr President, I'm confused about the magazines and I have no time to waste. A recent study conducted in seven member countries of OECD shows that investments in care and well - being, such as aging services, health systems, and play schools, are far less effective and even more effective than investments in professions where more workers are male, such as in public or construction projects. President. In this financial program, we've agreed on a legal field that we talked about here in December. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, it lacks to face people who have to rely on pensions and pensions, and there is nothing they do to improve the interests of these people. But, Mr. President, I thought I had 15 minutes and so much to say, but I'm glad that when a financial plan comes here for a second discussion, I can talk forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u66	A respectable president. It's a weird situation, and we are repeatedly reminded that it's not over yet. When you think about being just over 90 days from the time we agreed on to the last financial plan, you have, like one thing and another. Above all, it may be this fine position of government fund, which was initially when the epidemic hit, which has made a huge difference to us in coping with the problems we face. The impact of this epidemic and how long it lasts is our most economic uncertainty today. Fortunately, on December 17, some economics were not as dark as expected when we agreed on our last schedule. It is important to look to the overall interests of the world. As soon as we have to reduce the state's debt, we need to protect the infrastructure and ensure the standard of living for all the peoples, continue to build our major infrastructure and develop them to the level of time. We need everyone out there to support the growth of employment, both by extension of the action that has already been shown to be active and open to new ways. Of course, the huge projects planned for employment are, but investment expenditures increased by less than 6% last year and, in fact, much more if the Western island is corrected, an increase of about a 12% between the years, by 66 billion. The decision to attack as large an investment and building campaign between 2020 and 202023, to counteract the recession of the economy, was of great importance when we agreed on the last plan and move forward. During this year, continuing to grow investments is expected and the level of government investment remains high in the coming years. Of course, the purpose is to counteract the economic recession of this global economy that we know as a result of the Koronovirus epidemic as we lay the groundwork for growth as a result of the epidemic with a number of production projects. We know this. I am referring to increased support, as has been attributed here, to innovation and research, digital development, maintenance. We're building up real estate and we're doing projects related to energy exchange and green solutions. A respectable president. I think we all agree that unemployment is one of the worst consequences of the crisis we have to deal with. That is why it is very important to strengthen and support people and businesses and to do our very best to keep valuable jobs and knowledge free of loss, and, of course, all genders, and everywhere we must have all the smell. There are some things that we need to consider that when we deal with so much unemployment and one of the things that will benefit us is to work with a prosperous goal, for the public's goals are what we need to make sure that we get out of this situation. The government gave six focus on prosperity as a basis for making the last financial plans and budgets. Together, these emphasis reflect the government's policy and look to the future in important ways. These six priorities have given the government foregrounds on mental health, housing security, academic and occupational activities, non-carbonizing futures, innovation growth, and better communication with the general public. Such a standard is being developed at a international level, and it is a step toward a common understanding of what factors make a person's life better. A respectable president. This is a good instrument for making use of the priorities of funds. This financial program highlights mental health issues, reduces patient payment, and by 2018●2021, there was a well - paying increase in health - care budgets by well over a billion people. The funds went to the clinic, the Hospital, and the Hospital in Akureyri. Health - care contributions each year increase by 100 million per year according to mental - health policies, and the budget has increased by 400 million by the end of the period. Thus, from the start of this government, annual contributions to mental - health services have been increased year by year to an increase of 1.5 billion. The same can be said of the patient's payment, dropped by 800 million a year to 2025, and has been reduced by the payoff rate by more than 4 billion in total since 2020. All of this is important, especially for people who are now out of work and who have less hands, to reduce this share in health care. Of course, we should continue to follow the same course. This brings us to a position similar to that in the North, and we have been making progress for a long time. Because I talked about an investment back then, as we know, it's beginning to work with the acronym of the treatment core at Ring Lane, and it's estimated to be the end of 2023. Then there is work related to the house. The design of a laboratory building is also in the final stages, and there is a ground - work assignment in preparation. They're also going to an administry at a parking lot and a technical facility. There are much ahead of us when it comes to caring more for our health care. A respectable president. People have said it's important, and I agree, that we grow out of this crisis, preferably with green emphasis. So I must express my joy with the increase in climate issues from the end of this government one of the biggest issues we have to deal with and affect all of us in every way as well as the next generation. This year, according to the government's budget, the budget will increase by a billion, and the measures are intensified, and they are particularly in four areas. There are natural solutions to climate. It is, in fact, there. working on agriculture and forestry, protection, and recovery of wetlands in cooperation with farmers and other landowners. Then it is in the agriculture itself, and it will be accelerated, where climate - related agriculture is being further developed in order to increase the number of farmers involved in such projects. Then there is the increased support of national energy exchanges, seas and air - all of this at speed, and a special focus on energy exchange in transport and heavy transport, which I think is of utmost importance. The national production of renewable fuels is being supported in order to include: these dosage regimens. We also highlight the growth of public transport in the environment, and I think it's one of the things we need to look at, especially when we're covering the city line, that we're going to promote eco-friendly public transportation, carry the wagons around the environment, and generally add the infrastructure for this journey and another setting of loading stations. These measures contribute to the fulfillment of our goals, and as discussed, we have made it our goal to aim for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions until 2030 and to achieve a noncarbonization of 2040. All of this is of great importance when we look to the future, for these issues will affect our whole community, and in fact, little will happen if these matters are not right. A respectable president. There have been a list of very many actions that have been performed and do not need to repeat it. Similar actions have proved to be effective, strengthening, and supporting, but there is always a need to improve in making a good society better. Somehow, a mission never ends. That's why I think we need to be awake well for the next few years, probably just in the fall. Like I said, the situation is somehow so we don't know what happens tomorrow. I don't think we necessarily expected to be where we are today, to be back. I suppose we are dealing with that project this year and much longer than we may have thought. But I believe that this financial program is very supportive of what the government has started and that measures have proved successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u67	Mr. President. Last year and beyond, the Labour Code Association called on contracts to be revised, and unions would cancel their claims of contracts. But fortunately, the agreements held, which mattered greatly to the increase in the lowest salary. But the mantran was a bit that this was just such a small production in the economy, and it was actually started before a pandemic struck and became prominent, that these high minimum income insurance insurance could not be expected, as the biography agreements assume. The same tone is used in text and reporting and introductions using this government financial programme. I just want to ask you what. A senator would agree that there may be one of the main problems called both in the introductions and in the text a systematic problem in Iceland's minimum wage, and if stability is to be maintained, it is important for low-payers to recognize it when it sits at the dresser contract table. If they do not, they can expect no longer to work. What does it want? A senator says of this tone, struck by a government as a matter of course. A senator supports?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think that we are sisters in this sense when it comes to the fact that the low - paying people are not to shoulder the burdens that fall down and that inequities are not to be increased in the wake of this crisis. I think it's very important that we take care of it and we all stand in it together. I don't think the tone is like a cot. A senator chooses to interpret him, and I felt that a minister of finance would answer that in a very frank way when he replied. A senator as to whether these burdens should be borne by the underpayers. At least it's clear to me that it's not. I've never stood up for it, and I don't. I was amazed when the Society presented this, so I agree with it. A senator said about the biographer agreements, for I believe they were pivotal agreements in themselves and, of course, are supposed to be. I don't think that the financial strategy that is in progress and that it assumes that the lowest paid people are to carry any special burden or burden on others and probably less than the other person. There has always been a theme in this government, and that action in my opinion has been made that has become reality. And I think that's what. A senator must be able to agree that very many measures have been made to the lowest wage. But, of course, we need to do better, and I've always said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u69	Mr. President. That's good to hear. In case of a moment. A senator now reads carefully on page 18. Twenty-three in the financial program, she'll realize what I'm talking about. It matters what the government's actions are to promote growth, innovation, and development of the articles that can lead to high pay. More support is needed, and, of course, travel is important. So far, at least work in tourism has not increased much during the production, whether in the country or in other countries. We are talking about a massive article that pays a low salary. In this context, we must look at the actions of the government, how articles are encouraged, and how they are paid for the good development that should be an increase in the value of the land, making more well - paying jobs, but that the underpayers should not simply address the problem. I'd like to at the end, Madam President, to ask why. A senator whether to comment on it when it is the highest. Secretary of finance here is talking about the leaning of the Land Hospital. He just says, "The Hall is for the wait, there's no need to appear. " Is it so that it is not the council that is funded or that can be the highest? The secretary of finance is empowered to cut down the angle here and there in the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u70	Mr. President. I agree that the measures we have to take, have we taken, and have put vast sums of money into the need to promote the growth of the articles that can yield higher wages, make further support, as we have said. In a small community like ours, the baskets are often too few, the plaque gets a little bigger, like we're living up to now in connection with travel services. I agree that there is concern about the small pay paid in the tourism service. It's something that's not just social here, it's just general travel service around the world. This manipulative article, such as the sledgehammer. A senator rightly said, pays too little. I don't know what to say, but there are often young people who are applying for these jobs, people who are even working with school and other things, there are often shift work and other things; these are people of foreign origin. I'm so worried about this, and I've been discussing in the past that this is a problem that has to be fixed. I don't know how we do it any other way than make a good deal, i.e. Those who are negotiating. With regard to the angle of a land hospital, it is absolutely true that it is the General who decides what to do with it. I think we're supposed to consider when we get this document to ourselves, what we want to do with it. As mentioned here, this has not been decided, but this has to be assumed in my opinion, i.e. It's been decided, but not yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u71	President. A year ago, this epidemic began, and the government's counterwelves included a delay in financial planning. There was so much uncertainty that a policy could not be set to get out of that uncertainty. I think it's the job of the government to set a policy to eliminate uncertainty, but it wasn't. The budget was delayed. It was put forward in the fall, with a financial program of 2021 52025, and it was done for Christmas. Beneath this financial program was a economic forecast from October 2020. That economic forecast expected a certain unemployment and economic growth and inflation in 2021. As a result, financial programs and budgets are adopted to meet these figures and, like the highest. Minister spoke of earlier, to do better. Today, financial plans are submitted again, in effect, by a more stable policy of material matters. The financial and financial structure involved in the process of working on it yields greater interest in national forecasting, i.e. less interest, more unemployment and more inflation, less gang. This is the result of government policy, evidently not having met the economic prospects that have developed since October until now. Why, then, do we have a change of direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The plan that we agreed on in December and that we are now living on, as it were. A senator says, on evidence. At times, we have criticized one economic forecast, no more for what we are building our decisions, and we have often discussed it on a financial committee. Truly, it is always the task of government at any given time to try to meet the proposed and approved document. As soon as we have to be glad that we made better profits last year, or less debt, we try to figure it out. That's really what we're doing with what we're doing and what we're doing at the same time as the plan. I think we're doing the right thing by doing it this way. It's always a game of pursuit. I think it'll always be that way. At least I understand. A senator like this, but I may well not be able to grasp what he is asking me. At any given time, we have some predictions that we try to fulfill. Here we are straddling with what we have today, and we are always going to do better. I think we're doing it, trying to deal with the situation and make it better than last time. As mentioned above, it predicts that unemployment will be decided at the end of the period, etc. and we must always try to do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u73	A respectable president. I'm just trying to say, of course, that we want to do better, and I have faith that the results in government accounts will be better than they look into in a financial program. It is generally seen as to the rule that the public should follow with regard to baseline caution, to predict, in effect, a worse outcome than then, and that's all good and good. In October a national forecast was made, and a policy was made to do better than what was stated there. As a result, we get a new national interest project that looks worse. I think it's going to be better, though, than that national forecast, but the result of the policy we're considering right now, because it doesn't change before Christmas, it's a worse national forecast than before the policy was submitted. Therefore, I do not understand why changes are not made, since government policy in the last financial program was criticized. I criticized her for not accepting the unemployment that we were looking forward to. There was nothing about it, really. We know exactly how governments have taken action so far. It has been tried to catch off course on the developing condition, to respond evenly, but not to put a bearing forward and try to reach its goal. We're not gonna get anything like that. We're just going to have to do some follow-up work to work this out: What's the situation now? It is this: So let's make some action now and hope that they will correct things in the future. But they never say what they're supposed to be. In fact, in view of the year's agreement, the economic situation under national interest has become worse, not better. If we were to do better, national interests would have improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. There are many factors that will affect the national interests of life, not just the actions of the governments. I think, for example. that most nations now face the challenge, but most people hoped to see it here before Christmas, although it's no longer time than this, just as I think there's been a bit of optimism in Iceland, which is now having a setback. So I think there's a lot of factors involved. We expect, for example. and more than 700,000 tourists, still in comparison with the latter part of this year, are not expected sooner. Perhaps that will not be reality, and we may feel that many people today feel so as to know that there is at least something wrong about us in this regard. Of course, it affects what we're talking about right now, about the predictable unemployment and the catching too late in, that's all part of this. I don't think we necessarily saw it coming in the light of what I was saying, we were hoping that at this time we were just getting up, that it was opening up, that's why we were expecting less unemployment. All of this is a part of what is so influenced by the appearance of the national ideals of the new world. It's not my opinion because we weren't being careful, because we've, of course, believed that we'd be able to control the situation with vaccinations and such things. But there are a lot of factors involved. I don't agree that we've always grabbed in late with all our operations. Yes, indeed, at the beginning of the epidemic, naturally, because then we were caught with something that we thought we were just going to be posing in a very short time. Most people thought so. But now it's a long time. Of course, we do not yet know how the epidemic will develop, whether we will be in the same situation, or whether any new members of the council will have to discuss the exact same matters that we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u75	Madam President. Thus, the financial program says, with the permission of presidents: The General General has just relieved the careful management of public financial policy... There was no detailed discussion of official financial policies. As usual, the cost of government policy was missing. There was a need for a better analysis of government policy, and it really lacked government policy. Period. But as President knows, a profit analysis is about government showing us how their policy will bring us back to the road and not be a meaningless destruction of public funds. There was also a need for more accurate priorities, and, as I said, there was no need for all government policies. No policy on how to cope with the economic effects of the code. The government simply gave up wealth and still did, since it is the same financial plan as last time. Before people start talking about all the billions of people that have been used to react to the conditions the code has caused them, a large part of it is a self-centered reaction, i.e. Necessary benefits, partial improvements, and so on, about 65 billion bucks. there. In addition, there were some resources that were not self - determinationable, such as scholarships to over 10 billion and other measures about 44 billion in relation to the largest government support strategy, as shown in box 2 on page 20. Thirty-two on a financial program. The plan says, with President's permission: In September, elections are held. This means that there will be a period of financial planning during the terms of the next government and that the next budget, which takes place in the first year of the programme, will be proposed by a new government and will be based on a new financial policy that will have to be submitted concomitantly. Yes, it is true, and with this financial program it is simply the current government that it is not going to participate in the course that needs to be set after the next election. This government cannot even establish a policy in this terms. A year ago, the government delayed the contributions of financial programs because there was so much uncertainty. This is truly remarkable, for it is the responsibility of the government to set policies and eliminate uncertainty. This was clearly evident when the government finally proposed a financial plan that they had no direction. The government was dealing with the same reaction rather than killing all of us from the epidemic. There were no plans for meeting increasing unemployment. There were no plans for future development. In this financial program, we will see the same, aimlessly again. In this financial program, there is an excellent coverage of the current economic situation and the challenges ahead, the low value level on chapters, but all right, there is simply no comment on the government's policy out of this situation, except that which actually shone against it, but was unsaid: the government was simply waiting for the epidemic to be completed so that it could become the last rescue it was in collapse. I would have thought that the political parties here at government would compete to tell us all how they're going to handle matters so soon before election, but they obviously disagree with the fact that the product is nothing. With the permission of a president: The Plan expects the situation to reduce the government's specific support rapidly in 2022. All right, let's say that it's true and it's staged the number of tourists growing up as well as everything else. Still, we are in the situation of having quite a debt we need to consider. The aim of the government is made clear to us in the estimated 102 billion measures, which, by permission of the President, do not be applied to individual revenues on the income side or topic field on the budget side of this financial program, to the level. So the government knows the circumstances, but it does not put forth any effort, making an excuse that it will be an election first. Last year, when the epidemic began, there was so much uncertainty that financial planning had to be delayed. This year even financial programs are not produced for the next year. Last year, the government did not know what course to take, and this year it simply gives up and quits. In this year's budget, the government is putting the shoes on the shelf, saying that the next year's election policy is not a policy that the government is now setting up in a financial program, the document that the government uses to advance its policy, boasts of what it's going to do with great things. No. Someone may think it's very normal. But if it were so that the government had some vision of the future, it would offer that vision now and would brag about it and show that it was a trust worthy of the next election. Instead, the government gives wealth and leaves everything and everyone behind in the uncertainty that was so impossible a year ago that no policy could be set. The next year's uncertainty is not due to a pandemic but, rather, because of the irresponsibility of the present government. In fact, it is pointless to discuss this financial program. This is simply a waste of time, for the government put no work on this program. They did not want to update their policies and let it be said that there is no need to take action on the income and charge side of the state's budget between 20233/4/202, but they will give it away in how to do it because it's not that government that's going to do something about it. And because the government does not suggest any policies for the next five years, there is absolutely no point in a course that does not exist. What you can do is discuss the situation that the government does not want to deal with, the situation that the government has created by 12% unemployment and 4% inflation. It is so remarkable that the government boasts of various countercontestant measures when this is the result. We have heard them say that the situation is worse. That is exactly not surprising. There's exactly no one who said he wasn't going to do anything. Everyone had suggestions on what to do to deal with the situation that has developed as a result of the epidemic. But no matter what the government decided to do, these two figures will tell everything they need to say; more than 12% unemployment and more than 4% inflation. In this century, according to the figures of a labour agency, there have never been so many unemployed in this century. Let me tell you a little secret. Everyone acts like economic management is a very complicated matter. This is done by adding a variety of difficult - to - be - dead words, such as the economic rhythm-corrected equation or remuneration number, which still does not show paid development under the social insurance law but does so according to the interesting research of a union. Economic control is really very simple, for it is about people having a roof over their heads and being able to live a decent life. What may be complicated is how to achieve the most results in such economic management. The objective is obvious. Perhaps more complex methods are involved. When you plan to perform some operations, you set out a policy on which actions to take place, e.g. ... ina financialprogram. But no, it's nothing, nothing. The task is simple, but it is as effective as possible. In view of this, we need to examine this success of the government, that is, the greatest unemployment of the century for the simple reason that the government expected a brief epidemic and that travel would recover. This meant that the government's policy in the epidemic was to wait until it ran out, and a lot of people were to wait for unemployment. The government boasts of massive counterweapon action at the same time, as there is lack of memorization. How can you show yourself to be proud of that? If people are wondering how false news is working and being produced, all they need to do is watch government action, what they say everything is going well, and what the situation is in a labour market. We are faced with the need for over 100 billion resurgence measures in the years 2023/2025, according to the government financial programme, governments that just explain the problem, but do not suggest solutions. I'm sure that's because the government groups don't agree on how to handle that problem and want to go to general elections for their separate solutions. It means that this government will not work together in the next term unless some of the classes are going to betray their votes. If anything, these are the most remarkable information presented in financial programmes. This government has put its shoes on the shelf and is actually just working as a government today. Then you have to ask, " Why do we have to wait until the fall for a new government? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u76	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a Senate resolution on financial plans for the 2022◯26 years ago. As mentioned in the discussion and in the history of the highest. This proposal is submitted by financial and economic secretary in a very special and unusual situation and the ink is not dried up on the current financial programme 2021/2025. At this point, we are in a very delicate period of time and are constantly reminded of the prevention of disease and the course of vaccination, as well as economicly. We are at a critical time point where we have a high level of exposure to vaccination and to control the virus and to look beyond this condition and the consequences of the epidemic. On the one hand, there is a short election, and the inevitable financial bill for the next year will rest at the financial policy of a new government, which will be submitted along with the development of the financial agenda. This program, however, provides a clear picture of this, based on existing groundwork and projections, the scenarios we are looking at in 2022, as well as the overall picture of the budgets that frame expenses, revenue, and debt development during the period. That's why I say, a respectable president: this financial strategy as planned and set out wisely, it's responsible and with reference to the current financial programme that we agreed on in December and the annual budget of causes of acidification. This highlights the overall picture and the challenges we all face in the years and years to come. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It will be a challenge to put together plans and budgets that continue the building work that has taken place in many areas. As a result, there is an actual increase in causes of affairs throughout the terms of the term. In that case, the required actions and actions of the last year, which have been implemented, have included: In financial contributions and changes in various laws, special requirements, as well as the review of financial policy and financial regulations since then - all of this has left its mark on the state's budget. This plan provides a very clear picture of the focus and policy targets and provides the actions needed to take, of the situation today, of the watch and scenarios throughout the strategy period. When I talk about challenges, a respectable president, it's the fact that to cope with such situations, a strong position in a state fund has to play a tremendously important role in the economy. All of us need to consider that the government fund can meet the equations and, in time, be able to give up on the boat, as it is now, to meet such tragedies. We are here working with tools, and then I refer to the financial programme, in accordance with official financial laws, to look into and evaluate the future, in order to be more efficient and more effective in managing policies and taking the necessary measures for each year's budget. This is in accordance with the law, taking into account current revised financial policy on income development, on the development of pay, and on the development of debt. It is a framework that conforms to the target and policy of the highest degree. Governments. I think it is important to review the policies that we reviewed and adopted here at the World Council of September, in line with the actions we took on, when we had a year ago, when the flag was on, and with the exception of budget reviews of 2020,2025, which are now updated to 2026 from the next year, as well as that we weeks from the financial rule so that we could use the firm and responsible and reasonable means of the state's position to achieve the full intensity of this tremendous financial crisis, this deep crisis. The reasons for this process and the inevitable reactions we do not argue about, but let us review the policy: not to reduce the extent of public service, as well as not to compromise previous plans and goals. Apply official financial resources to secure stability and create economic resistance. Emphasis on implementation and displacement systems, despite the predictable loss of state funds. Accept a variety of countermeasures. The main objective of the operation was to soften the damage we faced between homes and businesses. Then it is often used: Allowing the automatic balances of the government's budget to work to the full. We have a very powerful system there, and it has proved true. For this reason, the boundaries and criteria of debt were changed, a respected president. Plans are being put exactly in line with this policy. It is designed to allow space to meet the situation that we faced. It was also put in an uncertain range to face the uncertainty that has been the whole time and is still a more respected president. We can still deal with this, soften the impact and support of an enterprise and a home with its specific actions outside. But since then, have we been walking the road for good as we look at the economic reaction to the crowning virus epidemic and what should we watch for? The main news is that there have been many responses that have worked well, and the situation is better, we know now, but in December. For example, my contractions are reduced, production loss is smaller. That is why economic growth is less measured, as measured. The result is more positive than watchin', and so is debt development. This will be positive for all of us in order to cope with the years in this program. The debt will be in accordance with the predictions as well as on the scenarios we look at 5 percentage points below or 46.4%. The news clearly indicates that we can successfully complete this assignment and get through it. Yes, it will be a challenge to achieve the main goals offered in this program; to stop debt collection 2025, to achieve initial balance by the end of 2025 so that we can apply financial guidelines 2026. It is possible to overcome debt and negative interest, and it is very important to cope with the interest balance and the debt burden. At the same time, it is important to protect and strengthen our transfer system. The challenge is to take positive measures during the period 20231⁄22025, certainly less in scope than the previously announced schedule, and, of course, will reevaluate annually. In view of the uncertainty, no statement can be made at this time. Similarly, the opinion of a financial body and the evaluation of whether a declared objective and its implementation in accordance with a plan will enable us to restore financial law again 2026. Investment of the past few years of material and social infrastructure will result in the task of building up the production loss and achieving a previous economic strength. Let us not forget, too, that it is neither built into this strategy nor prior plans that we are likely to be more powerful here in the same way that the recession was more powerful here or subversive in comparison with other nations to form the northern nations. The strength of tourism is an undisputed factor in this. Of course, it is heavy to look to those who have lost their jobs and businesses who are struggling for their existence. It is most important to realize that this struggle is not over, and we need to focus on ensuring continued support for the job and securing the resources of our companies, mostly those working in the tourism business, to advance and enter the natural resistance, as well as the income of those who have lost their jobs and secure jobs and activities, into the fight period that we are looking for in this program. Invited effort, starting work, is part of the work, but more is needed, and we are to focus on the coming days, weeks, and months. This involves extending the resources that have worked well, part - time, and other resources that have been implemented here. And it has to be said right away, you have to say this right here and now you have to make good use of companies, and at the same time we focus on getting people involved and that schoolmen work for the summer and study in the fall. I want to spend my energy on it right now and in the next few days, and that's what we're supposed to be doing. This plan is valid and necessary. It will not solve us from finishing this mission. Its features are much more likely to depend on our concentration, and we will ensure the next month that all of us will be ready for the resistance; in protection; in vaccinations and economic support of homes and businesses. The major project here and now, ahead and again, is to work down unemployment faster and more - than the figure drawn here, based on forecasts - with all available means and preventing long - term noncooperative work, securing income and efficiency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u77	A respectable president. There are many fine words in a talk. A senator, but I don't see much about the word, what his policy really is, what his aims are like in a financial program, as there is no update. Mostly, I wanted to ask what. That's what a senator, chairman of the budget board, has to do with it. There's nothing about this, so the policy of the environment is actually unchanged. Do we need the ministry to visit us on a financial committee? They're just talking about what they did for New Year's. Can we not use much more of the time we have on a budget to do something that is really needed, e.g. a follow-up with a budget being carried out? They have, indeed, lacked that share in the work of the Committee. If the government was so good at actually not bringing any financial plans, we can use the budget for something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Gunnarsson But I thought that it was just impossible, and he insists on me to try to justify some of the things in the overall context. In my speech, I did well. Senator. I reviewed the policy behind this program. I reviewed what this plan means. I checked that she had a connection with a plan that we agreed on in December and is referred to here. I reviewed the financial policy that we reviewed under very difficult circumstances, compelled to do so, and I traced to the way it hangs together, as it were in the public financial laws. That may well be the problem. A senator finds it all impossible, but I'm willing to answer questions. As for the follow-up of funding, yes, we've been wasting time on it, and we've received a report from the State Review Centre and we've received financial and economic services at our conference and have received a report on how this has taken up for the past year. In case of a moment. A senator can show me what we can do better in this regard, and I am always ready to listen. I have much more respect for both jobs. The legislature and the Generals but to me, it's just that it's meaningless and impossible. Now, the Congress is getting this interpretation proposal and a budget to work with her, and I just have more faith in our work than it did, and nothing came out of it, as if somehow in opposition to it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u79	A respectable president. I referred to a materially unchanged subject field. We discussed the issues of the matter with the problems, the fads, before Christmas, about the exact policy that appeared there. There's nothing to change there. Do we need to meet with them again because of a storm that's not changed? That's what I asked about. I don't think that's an unusual question. There are other things around here about economics, etc. which we can definitely find. I wasn't asking that. I don't think it's a good policy for reasons I've traced back to the highest degree. Secretary of finance. Despite the economic forecasting of the policy on which this strategy is based, it grew worse despite its policy. I think it's a clear example that policy is not working, and then why isn't it changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator later answers. As for the situation, I said in my speech that the situation is better now than in December. Hv. A senator would not agree. Then I'll just explain. In December we were doing predictions that predicted loss of production, a certain amount of production. Economic growth is then the calculation of the volume increase from that forecast. The loss of production is smaller, and therefore economic growth is measured to a lesser extent. That's what I know. A senator knows and understands. Regarding the project and the plan that we agreed on in December, I can be quite ready to look at it when discussing it. It's a budget, how we get that job done. I agree with what. A senator says that it is not necessarily possible for us to take the same roll again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u81	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator reviewed how responsible and reasonable he feels that this plan is and aims for the highest degree. Governments. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress whether he really feels that it is wise and responsible in a time of great stress in the middle of a pandemic health system and when we look at the people's aging that it is required by the government to maintain health care rather than a handsome injection. This will require maintenance of the health system and the same requirement for the next year according to the schedule discussed here. There are also standards for aging institutions and schools in 2022. Got it. This candidate is responsible and sensible in the middle of a pandemic and in the years ahead of aging? Nurse and rehabilitation services decline according to the plan for over 4%, but we both know, me and the what. A senator, that we are there in a great deal of trouble, and when it comes to the management of nursing homes and all the care for the elderly, it's in a lot of paralysis. There's a plan that's all there is. A senator is very pleased and thinks that he is very wise, but she assumes exactly what she does. What does it want? A senator say about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u82	V.E.G. President. In terms of the maintenance requirement, half a percent, it has been said that health care will be guaranteed, and this restriction is not crucial in this regard. I've told you before, there's probably a demand to be held in all public business, but we're not supposed to put a flat rule on the whole system. I'm just against it, so we're talking about it in general. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to the standard for living at the Land Hospital, and we've discussed it before, she's not a big deal. It was noted in earlier comments that a cumulative exchange was established. I also wanted to come inside that we had a problem. The legal committee needs to see the agreement when it is at hand and what it is about. It is very important that messages to health care in these circumstances are that we are a health - care provider and receive the necessary resources, especially in order to cope with the circumstances that exist today. I mean, you know, about the numbers as well as then. A senator came to the point that if we were to lower them, we need to analyze it now, between discussions, what are temporary steps to be taken out, the Covid arrangements, and what are mono-changes, and as practical, if there are investment teams in there. Once we've gone through it, we'll see the real growth of the whole season and what's really going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u83	Mr. President. I'm not sure that American aging institutions and health institutions agree that the requirements for living are of no importance. Indeed, they need to be cut year after year and again next year, as this plan suggests. Now, the government groups have joined together to set a very ambitious debt goal, to stop the debt collection in 2025, and the proportion will be below 50%, which is just low in international comparison. I want to ask you why. A senator knows if he is aware of a nation that is dealing with a deep economic crisis in a pandemic that has set such a debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u84	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator later responded. First, I'd like to say that it wasn't my word that sides didn't matter. I was trying to explain that I had discussed earlier in this discourse the approach of making demands on government management. I don't like the flat maintenance requirement for the whole system much, and it's not just for health institutions. And I know that every dollar is important to this operation. I know all that about what I'm doing at the moment. It's a legal committee. With regard to the object of debt, it's a very good question, and the big question really is in this context. It's different according to the economics what sustainability criteria apply to the percentages and as far as I'm next, we've got 60% going well on the lines that attract sustainability. [[The president calls.]] So it's important, and then it's interest level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the legal committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, for an excellent speech. There is no plan for dealing with older citizens and the limitations they have had in the past. There are no plans for raising the number of jobs that we face in the full - time unemployment industry. There are no plans for improving the status of nurses in our country, but there is a plan to improve money in climate. I personally consider it more important to try to overcome the unemployment problem by increasing the number of jobs involved with a government fund in cooperation with privates than to put a lot of money into the climate under these circumstances. But there are different emphasises. There is a table on page 8. 102 in the programme where additional contributions to climate are being made and are being increased in this program. It is one of the few clearly stated in it - these contributions are being increased by 10 billion dollars. To the year 2031, about 1 billion a year, since 2022. It is also mentioned in this program on page 6. 138 that government activity is guided by success. Then I'd like to ask who. Senator: Do we know what the results are of this operation of the government, this vast amount of money that we are putting into this suit? The table on page 24. 102 is about the contributions, but there is nothing about the results of this increase to climate. Since the start of the government, the donations have been doubled. Where, though, are the standards for success? They're not available. Ain't normal, huh? A senator, because he is interested in financial management and has brought into good contact with his work, is there evidence of the results of all these measures and the great amount of money we are putting into it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer and good questions, Þórarinsson's Birgir offer. Here he points in the box on page 20. 102 on increasing climate expenses. Yes, we have a problem. Legal committees constantly call for these scales. I'm just gonna take this opportunity and come here in my answer that this strategy, as it is presented, is a good practical guide, and it's a careful box such as spending on climate and that's where we're moving closer to meeting the commitments of the Paris Convention. But that's right. A senator says, and I'm not going to try to stand here and get in the way of it. We need to have more accurate standards on the results of this money than on the fact that it is part of one of the overall agreements. I say it right here and now: we will continue to call for these measures. It's where we're going. A senator, who is clearly well read, in a very interesting chapter here on a project that has been saved in the Ministry of finance for reimbursement. It is a very interesting chapter, and I hope for that journey, both digital solutions and other factors that will reveal reforms and a certain mental attitude in public affairs. We need to bring the money and money into it much more, to make progress, and to set goals, to tie up the crowns we are putting on the indicators. I just agree with that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u87	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good answer, and I'm glad that he's on my side with me because we really need to sort this out and get it absolutely on the level of action when we're putting so much money into lawsuits like the climate. As a matter of fact, I remind you, the highest. In response to a question I asked him some time ago, the environmental minister said that it was very difficult to tell about the results when they arrive, for example. to increase the carbon binding. The results would be difficult to appreciate. It is natural to consider whether a person will have to put the results completely on the table. I expect the chairman of the budget board to take advantage of this because this is a very important matter. Only at the end, just briefly, of the financial situation of many rural society, in view of the high unemployment rate. [[The president calls.]] This naturally adds to the burden of rural society. See what? A senator realizes that they need to be faced in some way over the next few years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question of rural society. This is exactly what I started in a talk, and I linked that we were at a critical point in the prevention of disease prevention and the course of vaccination, and especially economic procedures. The danger is that when we're looking for elections, we lose our focus on what we're really supposed to be doing, just every day; looking for us all to get out of this crisis together. It also applies to the communities we've certainly tried to look into, which may be the most dependent on tourism. We need to look to them, and we've done so in the past. It's a legal committee. We've seen much of the initiatives, and we've contributed to the worst - hit rural society. We need to keep it up and watch not only in our homes but also in the tourism business and in the areas that have been the worst outside, and we have the opportunity to do so in the next few days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u89	Mr. President. Almost three months ago, the General Assembly adopted a budget of budget for the year 2021-2025. That plan was very late because governments did not trust to put it to work at the right time, which should have been meant for about year. The reason does not have to be traced to the United States. It is estimated that a government fund will be fired at 223 billion dollars. Set down next year according to this new financial program. The slope is to go down from year to year, becoming 59 billion dollars. in 2026. The sum of the total balance of the state's budget in the year 202/226 is estimated to be 590 billion. To that end, last year's charge is estimated to be 196 billion. And the balance of the state's funds is at hand this year, 320 billion dollars. Finally, the wealth of the state will be estimated to be about 1,100 billion dollars. less than his expenses in a seven - year period, from the beginning of the last year through 2026. It's no small thing. The current economic forecast of the Habitat accounts for 2.6% of interest in the year, 4.8% in the next year, 3.8% in 2023, and a peak annual economy of 2.4% in 2024-226. Despite this growth, the collection of debts is expected to not stop until 2025. That's not good news. It is estimated that the total debt will be over 3,500 billion. It follows that interest rates on such debts can make a difference. Each percentage fraction is extremely important. Mr. President. Based on the declarations and almost acquiesces between the government parties on the success of their cooperation and that all of them can well plan to work together, the government has to assume that the dream to continue the government community service is to continue and that it is recently adopted budgets for the current years and this financial plan will guide the future to its administrations. The elections are in six months, and it would be very strange if these three groups were to change course, have provided such a guide, and a declaration of how they picture the future together. It'll be at least Very close for them to wage their campaigns on another basis. It would be quite unfaithful to present our plan out in 2026, i.e. More than all the next terms, but change the course immediately after its approval here at the General Assembly. So this plan must be the glue that holds the dream of the future life of the government together. But if the dream turns out to be a nightmare, a different structured government will get the job of stepping up the cards, publishing new financial policies, financial programs, and providing budgets for the year 2022. In fact, I think it would be very wise for the people to give this government a long and good vacation. This new plan adds little or nothing to the previous one. No material changes are made on the basis of current financial programmes or policies, objectives and actions programmes of individual causes of heartburn. No update is found in the light of the circumstances. There is no reassessment of the necessary and desirable changes in various fields; no additional instruction is taken out of what will become involved or methods. It is not even an attempt to show how the government is going to finance many things that it has promised in front of the media, such as the media. There are new national sports stadiums and revolutions in dealing with children, so to speak, not to mention the matter of restoration, which was approved by much of the General Assembly on a vast increase in psychological services. It is not to see that high education is a treasure. All of this is not surprising, for the government is a stationary government that has already accomplished it during this terms that it knows how to hold a fancy press meeting and is good at using advertising agencies. There's a lot of packaging and texture in this government. Mr. President. Unemployment is highest, most of which have increased in all OECD countries. Despite the actions of the government, she is not dealing with the challenge. It will be significant for the next few years if the course is not changed. The budget estimates that unemployment at the end of the strategy will be in the range of 4◯5%, which is higher than the average lack of employment in recent decades and is a sign of a maintained unemployment higher than has been observed in the United States. We need to recognize that we need to find more sectoral activities than tourism to accept a considerable number of people who will not be back on that site. In this country, in all European countries, prices are highest and are designed to continue in the years to come. The crown's gang is swinging. Two years ago, the F.O.S. was 178 points, 214 in September last year, a 193 points yesterday. In English, this means that a 6 million - year - old car cost 7.2 million a year later, cost 6.5 million yesterday. The swing of this small example shows that the person who bought at the worst time paid 1.2 million more than the person who bought at the best time. The difference is 20%. That's how the buck plays at the homes. Mr. President. Despite what is previously attributed, the government groups want to hold the crown with all their means. However, they trust it as much as they can, so they have put in a bill that implies that the amount of money is left alone and unsaid. It is requested that the Council confirm that a dollar is a currency of the kind that can be safely trusted. Thus, it is necessary to have a set of measures in order to try to avoid the damage it can cause. Of course, it's a great news, but it's a great deal for them that here is fully accepted, by those who are the most committed to the value of the crown, that they cannot do the role that currency must be able to serve in a free and open economy without extensive intervention and possession. Mr. President. The innovations of professional life are vital for us. We need to build new and more articles. This involves growing resistance and stability. The support of innovation is not a short-term project. During our restoration, we are tirelessly pointing to this. A temporary injection will not be enough. Unfortunately, the government has not guaranteed long-term investment, but only for a short period of time. The setting of innovation must be very strong and predictable. That is why we have brought up two prime metastases that involve the promotion of special appeals for research and development, which were temporarily developed last May and, on the other hand, the inclusion of the temporary sources of pensions to share in joint investments or so - called indicator funds. By doing so, we feel that there is a way to stimulate the necessary business exchange. Mr. President. At the top of the woods, I'm afraid. The secretary of finance confirmed what we have repeatedly pointed out that public investments are not in the vicinity of the government's promise. While we wanted to take a big step right away, we still have nothing to do with these investments. There is no evidence of good economic management in the lowest crisis of later times. Of course, the bottom line is when such things happen. It is now crystal clear that these projects all and investments have been drawn, and what does this mean for the national and public? Won't it be too late for your ass, and your investments will be in full force just when your basic job life is taking over? This can have serious consequences for economic management and for expansion in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u90	A respectable president. We here discuss the budget of the government for the total number of 2,202,2262, quite remarkable that we are discussing it today when it in itself is completely out of date. The fourth wave of Covid is on the move, and this document contains e.g. calculated with some 700,000 tourists this year and 1.3 million next year, an optimistic outlook. Why is this financial program so bad? It's simply because the government has failed completely. Sadly, she failed to see that the virus would not get into the land again. And then there is the fact that this financial program is neither a bird nor a fish because of what is missing and is not even mentioned on a name as I pointed out. There's a secretary of finance on it. It is not told of poverty in it, not a word, let alone very little. The group that needs help to obtain a hot meal is not spoken of after meals, but it has doubled in time. In this financial program, this group is left behind. V.E.G. A financial minister has repeatedly pointed out that this is a very small group, but the problem is getting money to help this small group. Help him to what? Yes, helping him not to have to wait in line for food, helping him to obtain necessities throughout the month. It's pretty weird that it can be said over and over at the General Assembly, in this chair, that it is a small group, but it can't be helped because of lack of money. What are we talking about here? We're talking about a lot of money. You don't seem to hear a lot of money missing for companies, you haven't heard a secretary of finance talking about it, or there's a lack of money for some government quality project. There's no need for money for that. But there is no need for money, and there is no way to find them for people who are starving. This government repeatedly says that the increase in money was greatly in welfare and in reducing taxes. Yes, it is. They dropped the tax percentage but also reduced the person's discount. How on earth are we to believe a government that claims to help someone when she lowers the person's discount but also lowers the third tax step? Why the hell didn't they let them at least The discount is as it was, or did it even rise? They would have really been helping the most needed. Then, too, they could have reduced the personality discount of those who do not need it, nothing. But what does it tell us, the financial program they have here? Yes, it does tell us that things should remain the same. Those who have not received a crown, no assistance from this government - the highest. The minister of finance asked me who these were, and I couldn't answer him when he asked, but I now answer: Older citizens. They were left in Covid. They are the only group that has received no Covid-related help, not any. Can they expect anything more than a 3.6% rise that they had last received in the form of inflation of over 4%? That means minus the person. But what does the financial program say for the next four years? The rate of consumption is expected to be 3.2% this year, it is now 4%, it will be 2.4% next year, 2.4% in 2020, 2.5% 2024, 2.5% 2025 and 2.5% 2026. What does this tell us? It tells us that they are going to increase their social security rates. At the same time, they calculate a 5.4%, 4.3% 2023, 3.9% 2024, 3.8% 2025 and 3.7% 2026 respectively. Is it the same with social security? No, it's never happened and it won't happen, not in this government. That's why I say it's a long time for us to give this government a vacation. But be sure, they will dust their promises and promise that they will improve. But is that really true? No. A group of people have contributed one bill after another to improve the favor of the worst in this country. But those days are up in committees. This government is not interested in increasing everyone's well - being or buying, but they are always willing to defend it on average. The ones on the lowest salary and benefits don't eat this average, unfortunately. Health services, education systems, high school - all taken care of. The goals are really cool, but the facts speak for themselves. The facts of the concerted tests, the school system position. When it comes to large - scale education, is it credible? Not according to this financial plan. There's nothing to make up for that system. Then they are kissing for the rise in income markets because of the elderly's employment. It is not up nearly as much as they had promised. It had been promised that the decline in the social security system - has it occurred? No, I'm sorry. We know that they have set up share loans and have boasted about it in this financial program. Sadly, it was as expected. The height is far too low, so this does not help the worst, they just get into trouble in that system. I'm sorry, there's only a lovely promise in a nice package, but the contents are very drossy. And that's how it will be if this government survives. We have an example of the fact that now a company is being encouraged to hire jobseekers, so those who have been most unemployed receive 472,000. In a month, which is cool, very good, but the lowest unemployment rates are 307,000. Then came a total of 270,000. which many have to survive, and that is the case with a group that lives at 240,000 k. for tax. Is this group good in the authority of this government? No. Will he be good? No, because the minister of finance said: "Where on earth are we going to get money to help this small group? The small group they leave entirely behind - they find money for everyone except those most in need - this small group as high as possible. Secretary of finance says he doesn't have money for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u91	Mr. President. I have the privilege of being last in this financial discussion before discussing the individual ministry and policy of the next year in their fields and litigations. I would like to say that I have found this discussion to be in many respects excellent about what is being presented here in this fine financial program of 2022 mouse, where we have carefully put our arms around and framed the big task we have had to do for about a year. About a year ago, we were facing a big project. We responded by reevaluating financial policies and making new financial policies. At my beginning, I would like to present what is said in the excellent financial and political arrangement, with permission of the president's permission: It was reviewed by an article published in the World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York. In the fall of the epidemic because of the government's impact on financial matters and to provide room for the proper government - controlled response. In view of a threat to economic development, the uncertainty of policy range was greatly improved, but space can be used to adapt policy outcomes to changing economic outlooks. In a revised policy, the uncertainty curve is up to 2% of VLPs in 2020 and 3% of VLPs in 2021 and 2022. According to this financial programme, the publication of the official user will use half of the uncertainty range in the current year, but future plans will not test the use of the uncertainty vector in the next year. Thus, the official attitude of the 2022 is in rhythm with financial policy without an uncertainty gap. Come on, a respectable president says: In the year 2020, Haggis published the official provision for 2020, suggesting less compromise between state funds and rural society than planned. So that year, the Hall of State Fund was about 200 billion K., or 6.6% of VLP. That's about 70 billion bucks. A better conclusion than expected when the year's prospects were re-evaluated. A fall. Improvements in the state funds in 2020 were made in part by improving economic developments and by a stronger personal consumption than expected, which is expected to appear. increased revenues of cost tax A respectable president. I felt that it was important to draw this forward about a year ago simply to face the serious situation that we were entering the most historic crisis we have ever faced. An estimated 10.4% decrease in national production was predicted, but the result was 6.6%. I'd like to draw this out because the basis for the financial agenda we are now discussing is a financial policy that we agreed on for 90 days, which, as previously stated in this discussion, is in place of the measures that have been taken and that have been established in the history of this government, which included. has been shown to have large increases in Kingdom spending for many aspects of our community, whether we are talking about education systems, health systems, investments, and improved transport systems, and so on. We didn't give in to that kind of thing, we added on. We did a huge reaction, extensive measures to protect home and employment and to maintain the production capacity of the economic system. Perhaps the best witness is simply the more dignified president to give a witness to what is presented in this fine report that the demand recession was about 1.9%. If we compare this with a crisis that we will remember very well, the number was 19.4% after the economic crisis of 2009. This is a big difference, and the reaction is very different now than it was then. I'm just going to draw it up in this discussion that there are about 25 laws and measures currently available. V.E.G. At a press conference today, a minister stated that the legislation on the range of options is still valid and available, and this is the result. This does not change our situation, however, that we are in a very serious situation, and here we are in a lot of unemployment. We do not ignore the magnitude of the problem involved. But I also remind you that despite this high unemployment rate, we have maintained our pay levels and have continued to defend the country's increased financial resources. All of these are things that matter to all of us. This is reflected in the report on a financial program that I now witness back to, a respectable president, by permission: This year, in 2022, the system is growing again, achieving a strong resistance expectation of the decline in the epidemic of the crown virus. In the short term, economic growth outlooks are especially influenced by how well the epidemic is controlled within the country and by the rapid recovery of its weapons. The State and the Council Bank have taken unprecedented measures to minimize the damage caused by the epidemic, spread it over the shoulders, and over the years to support the growth of production capacity. These measures, together with the strong standing of the households, companies and the official pre-pandemic countries, have greatly reduced the number of production losses that for a time were fear of being the result of the pandemic. The powerful response of public funds, both by automatic rhythms and by government specific actions, supports not only economic prosperity but also the long - term sustainability of public funds. This is important to me in the beginning of this discussion and in the handling of the Parliament's financial program for the next few years to stress the importance of what we do in this chamber and what we apply. This, in turn, I would like to put in touch with what has also happened a lot during the discussion today, i.e. Why are we looking at the rest of the Kingdom Fund for a long time? It simply says that at any given time, we have to live in public finance to have a wealth of government, a means of intense resistance to react to unexpected events. The report on the need to deal with major natural and environmental disasters says that the president's permission is the following: Some of the risk factors that seem to be distant may be very ashamed of you. This is especially true in the case of natural risks, as has been seen from the past epidemic experience of heavy - powered pregnancies and earthquakes in the Rhines Peninsula, which are the first of their species for hundreds of years. These events are closely related to the risks of climate change, which, despite improvements in climate science, may in part be unpredictable today. Recent events need a reminder that governments need effective equipment for the number of risk factors, many of which are unlikely but can have significant effects. This is especially true in the economic and financial sectors. Environmental damage may require rapid and specific action, as at the beginning of the pandemic when a number of measures were implemented and implemented quickly. However, its premise is that economic and government policies are generally safe and allow space for quick response when necessary. The purpose of stopping the increase in debt as a proportion of land production in the late part of financial programmes is especially, and perhaps primarily, to cope with such events. A respectable president. I have tried to frame three of the most important messages I would like to deliver in the previous discussion of this synonym. In spite of all of this, it has proved to be better than we feared a year ago. Second, because of the strong response and decisive action, we have managed to cremate the economy, and we are coming to the next year with about 100 billion more land production at the foundation to work. And third, I have tried to shed light on the fact that we need to look forward to the time of the policy period to rebuild the foundation of state funds, stop the debt collection to be prepared to deal with unexpected events, which are certainly not rushing us for the last time. That's what I think is a most important road starter for what's happened. The budget board, when she is now taking this financial program and the Senate resolution proposal for treatment and good messages. That's exactly what I'm talking about, these tools. The panel must work on it over the next few weeks in their treatment of the matter and then draw out the members of the Committee, at that day, how we are going to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u92	A respectable president. We are talking about a financial program in which government policy is proposed. I'd like to try again what I've been discussing in answers and talks. When governments set out a financial program as their policy for what they will do better in the coming months and years, it is based on national ideals, as they have always been told. We build our own plan and the figures we have on national interests, even though there are other predictions about how this will develop in the months and years to come. You would think that in the present situation in which the problem is unemployment, and when the last financial program was submitted, the predictable problem of unemployment would improve government policy. When we see the national ideals submitted in October last year, before the policy we are actually considering was adopted in December - i.e. The policy of the policy of government, which remains unchanged, would mean that it would give greater national interest now that people have begun to follow the current policy of 2021, but their prospects have deteriorated. I know that the result can be better, but it is predicted in financial planning and budget, that the result will finally be better. [[The president calls.]] But I'm saying that despite government policies, the prospects have gotten worse. Why, then, do we have a change of direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I've heard that answer from him here earlier today. Then I may want to do the same experiment that many others have made when he compare national ideals since autumn and the national interest forecasts now, saying that the figures are lower in the national economy now and again, in the fall of the year, it is only natural that the percentage of the program is now lower. I think there might have been a huge lottery hit. More important, it is to inform us that when we bring higher domestic production into this year, it really is fundamental. As to unemployment, in my speech I said that it was the problem we had to deal with, that perhaps the situation in our community now focuses primarily on one sector that is a travel service. We hope that she straightens out the cow by means of the measures we have taken to try to protect the manufacturing equipment and to hold the companies so that they can tire of this crisis by various measures. I hope that as a result, they will be ready for the resistance we need and hopefully sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u94	President. That is exactly what I have heard before, and it has actually been said in the answers of the previous speakers, but it does not work out. If the result was more economic growth than was expected at the time of the year, you would have thought that this would lead to a projection of lower unemployment, or that unemployment might be reduced by the growing interest that we could then share with others, the kakan would grow, and all of this, the same as usually. What I'm trying to say is that national interest forecasting was expected to increase in economic growth and economic growth over the next few years and if we're getting it a little earlier, we're getting a little more economic growth earlier, it doesn't necessarily mean that the lower economic growth will be translated, as predicted it would remain a slightly higher interest in the cards. It didn't happen. While economic growth was greater when the result came, unemployment was higher, and the prospects for unemployment are worse than they were in the fall, despite government policy. So I ask again: If policy doesn't have the effect of reducing unemployment, then why is it unchanged?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u95	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We're dealing with predictions. Then, real life is often different. Sadly, we need to say that the predictions of unemployment may not have been accurate, but they are happy reports now that unemployment has reached its peak, according to statistics, is to reach its peak. I hope so. Unemployment hurts a lot. I'm not going to belittle it, but all our actions, as we're doing here, and that's why we're going to stick to the course that I was doing well in my speech, have worked to capture this crisis, so we're going to have a powerful, strong society to escape the effects of the epidemic, which hopefully will be sooner than later. That's the big deal, but it's not even the predictions at any given time. We are entering this year with greater value in national production than predicted, and on that foundation we are standing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u96	A respectable president. The budget shows that new economic forecasts are brighter than previous estimates. Shows the management plan to reduce pitching, less debt collection, less need for invasive measures and cuts. Extensive measures have not been implemented fully, but this is likely to eventually become maintenance or higher taxes or both. What does what? A senator will be made, and to whom will the bill be sent? Won't that be the ones who always do? It seems as if the Independence Party refused to recognize that there is a certain group living far below the poverty line. It seems to be forgotten to improve his terms, and this seems to be the case when cut down mainly on this group. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he agree to have it this way? Why can't you help this group? It's like the highest. The secretary of finance has repeatedly pointed out that it is a very small group, he says it repeatedly, but somehow you will never be able to find money to help this group. Why the hell not? Despite all the budget gains that have been due to Covid, it seems that there will always be some group to leave behind. Why is this incredible inability to deal with this and to make sure that no one is left behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He had two categories of questions. I will endeavor to answer them in some context. Right away. A senator asks me about the upcoming and how they'll show up then I think it's very honest that we talk about it now, especially at the end of the term, so we can at least begin to publish our ideas about it. For one thing, I'd like to say that since we've been more successful than forecasts have indicated in recent months, the need for these improved measures is to be reduced. I'm not going to fall into the temptation to hope that growth will be greater, so we don't need to take action. Then, too, we will take it into account in the next year's financial programme every possible action to be made, e.g. Because of improved state conflicts, I'm not going to list it into large joints, and then other measures to be taken. I'm not going to go any further into it. Hv. A senator asks why we can never ever improve the survival of the people he mentioned here. I don't think we're arguing about that, huh? A senator, that we have taken a very important step there. We've made a lot of money out of these people. There's good evidence on that. Regarding when we can take further steps and take better care of these most vulnerable groups, I think we are. A senator would agree that we need to do so, and we need to find ways to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for the answers. A prior financial program expected 900,000 tourists to reach the country, but this number is now expected to drop to 720,000. This was said before the current arrangements were taken and before the fourth wave, which is about to begin, struck. So all I'm saying is that this financial plan is already very upset. As a result, you do not really have the slightest control over how to make sense of it. This magazine is really unwritten because we do not know the consequences of this fourth wave and what it would mean if it went completely. In terms of the worst, it is always possible to say that they have been greatly improved, but it is usually spoken of percentages and percentages of total low compensation or pension rates of these individuals, which are so low that it will not go away. For people far below the poverty line, there are 3,000, 4,000, or 5,000 k. just raise one lamb's thigh, at most. It's only a bandage on the wound. It needs to be done better. Now that the government has been ruling for four years, it is incomprehensible not to be done better because all of these groups had to be better organized.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u99	Mr. President. I think it's very important. A senator draws out what he did here, e.g. Predictions of a number of tourists, as we now look at the face of a new epidemic, are being taken care of today. That's what we do for what we do. A legal committee to discuss these grounds. I'd also like to remind you that, on terms of the current budget, for example. exposure is not expected. At least we got a nice furturbite. Now this is how these predictions and our plans can change. In my talk earlier, I mentioned that the demand contractions in this country had been much smaller than we feared. If we put it in the context of whether tourists will be 700,000 or 400,000, I'd like to say that the main advantage we have is what our counterweight action is, how the economy is, what the position of the households is, and how the power of our companies is to manage the situation. I don't want to say that we don't have to talk about the assumptions of a number of tourists, I think they can also change if the programs for vaccination go along as they've been published, even if there's something that might be blurred in that topic. For the latter part of the reverse. A senator about a few bucks when we talk about a percentage of low compensations, I couldn't agree with him. It is somewhat misleading to talk about percent when the stock is low. So, my reaction is, do we have a solidarity to talk more about raises? Do we have a solidarity to improve the interests of these people by talking about crowns and numbers of them? Do we find that they do not rust the entire scale of the road, as we have often had to contend with?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u100	Mr. President. I will take five minutes to review the big financial lines, but I'm here, of course, to answer for the lawsuits that I hear. As noted earlier, budgetary contributions due to the years 20211⁄22025 were suspended last spring, which was submitted in conjunction with a budget bill for the current year in the beginning of October last year and provided by the General Assembly in December. It is, therefore, not to be surprised that the government has decided, in view of the recent completion of its policy and aims and plans of all causes, to stick to the decision of the General Assembly, as well as the fact that we are in the last year's term. This financial program focuses mainly on the big picture in terms of government and the economic role of the government for the next year. Clearly, the pandemic has had a tremendous impact on the state of the State Fund. The new reality was immediately observed in the spring, with high - income contractions and a predictable increase in expenses. Right then, the government decided to press forward, not to respond to a predictable angle on a government fund by contracting and cutting down. At the same time, the financial rules have to say that at the time of the outbreak, the high level of the state's wealth, the strong level of debt, and the reasonable economy of the past few years, we have been able to cope with this new swing with full force. I also believe that so far, it has been successful in the interaction of the state of finance, the financial policies of the Secret Bank, and the employment market decisions. More important, this interaction is important in difficult situations, as it is today. Governments have been used to ensure the lack of function and support systems of the government, support homes and companies that have been badly affected by the local epidemic, as well as to invest vigorously for the future in education, infrastructure, research, new technologies, wand activities, and, above all, climate change. I think this is a wise management, both long and shorter. We see the results of the action being done less slowly, but fear was at first and a better look for the future. Of course, there is a considerable difference between the Organization's National Standards now and the national ideals that established the budget adopted in December, a significant difference that will make a big difference to the future. Similarly, when the epidemic ends, we will be more effective in achieving the new strength that will be crucial to the financial situation and will reduce the need for measures to improve government growth. We also make sure that the economic and social consequences of the epidemic will not be long lasting and will not increase in social inequities. As I mentioned, financial programmes are fundamentally in accordance with current programme. Changes are primarily due to further reactions to the epidemic and to a better view of the state's funds. Today, the big project is to remove the unemployment and the measures we recently introduced that are expected to create up to 7,000 jobs by supporting government, government free organisations, and medium-sized companies to recruit people of the unemployment registry, will make a big difference in that assignment. We will also make sure that the school system can take on an increasing number of students and continue to support jobseekers to gain new knowledge. So will 119 billion dollars. Investment campaigns over the years 2020-22025 have a positive effect in reducing the fluctuation, in increasing the number of jobs, and in creating opportunities for the future. Then I must mention that in this financial program there are still additional contributions to climate. Direct contributions have increased during the election season, and new and ambitious new, upcoming goals for December call for additional action, which is being added annually to a billion to the suit in the coming years to further further the government's climate action programme. I believe this is important in achieving the goals we have made in order to deal with. In the coming years, major projects will be faced with economic and financial regimes. But I think of the actions that we've already done around downturns in this pandemic, which are physically like downturns due to the crisis here, 2008, which calls for all other measures, that we're already seeing their results in my contractions, and we'll see their results in the process of reducing unemployment more rapidly than expected in the Economics' national ideals, and the project is predicting national interest. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Our goal must be to ensure that this projection of unemployment, which is the main concern, does not work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u101	Mr. President. It is a little strange to discuss this financial program now, it is a bit like playing a harp while the economy is burning, for the future of the Icelandic economy is in remarkable uncertainty. Last one, just a few hours ago, the government announced the basic changes on the basis of which it is fundamental. But the other thing is that this is a plan for the next election period when there will be another government. This may tell us something about where this government, the government groups want to go. It would be interesting to hear the highest opinion. One prime minister is whether this is the responsibility of all the administrations, whether it is their common priorities, for this course is undeniably short of much, and much is needed to cope with the present circumstances. For example, in what way are the classes of the present government planning to save, or are there any ideas above it? The government has spent a large amount of money, had much to offer when it received and asked, and most likely the growth of the booth was not as great as that of the Ministry of Presidency. I believe it is safe to say that at no time in the republic, any Ministry has grown as fast as the Ministry of the Presidency in the history of this government. Where does this control plan to save? How will she react to today's situation that seems, unfortunately, not to be improved? - Now I make a note, Mr. President, of having only got two minutes to go. I would have liked to have a hundred times more, but I realize that the highest. The President can't give me any extra time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u102	Mr. President. I strongly recommend 200 minutes, it might make a very interesting scene. First of all, it's tore up a sledgehammer. The senator of this program is absolutely correct, and it is put forth under circumstances that are simply in order to make long - term plans quite difficult. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has come to understand that the situation we have been in recent years - unpredictable, unprecedented, and all the fine words - simply makes it very difficult to attack a long - term plan. This is best illustrated by the improvement in the state resources in the planned period from the programme that we agreed on in December, i.e. The basis for the plan has changed. The Haguen's economics provide a far better fund than that of December, which tells us its commission to engage in long - term planning in these times. Of course, preventative measures can be taken as appropriate. A senator came to, affect the economy. But I think, and it's a very important point, that the preventative measures we've taken in Iceland, based on a very clear methodology of high screening, infecting and insulation, have yielded better disease prevention measures, but much more aggressive measures, such as curfews in our neighboring countries, and with less social and economic damage. In this respect, I think that we as a community are achieving our goal to minimize the damage done by certain measures. Hv. A senator here mentions the booth in the Ministry of Presidency. This conversation is not completely strange to us, we've had it before, but I must laugh less. A member of the council that includes what has taken place during the term is that there was a group of equality issues taken to the Ministry of Presidency. [[The president calls.]] Then it was decided to engage in construction at the Ministry of Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u103	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister can't drag me into a discussion about building with the Ministry of Presidency, we need to do that when I have more time. However, it is clear that despite a previous legal issue in this Ministry, there is a tremendous expansion of the Ministry. And there was no great answer to where that government saw that it would be possible to save in the next terms. Likely, the government does not want to explain it, having any such ideas over her head. V.E.G. One prime minister spoke extensively about the effects of the epidemic and of preventative treatment. Then I'd love to go to the highest. True, a minister got them out by discussing the effects of vaccination, since there is a problem. Last night, one of them informed him of what was going on. European Union members of the management board were currently putting Iceland on a restricted list regarding the export of vaccines. This is all grateful for the subjection shown by the European Union government, the European Union, by continuing to be drawn into the foreword of the European Union's Convention on the Development of Vaccines, despite many European countries trying to scratch themselves out of this situation. Of course, Iceland is in a much better position in most ways than the countries to do so. So you must wonder if it's the highest. Then a minister can use this opportunity now, since the Minister will be talking about the impact of the epidemic, to convince us that there will be a change of policy and the government will take the initiative to provide a vaccine to prevent further billion dollars of losses for society each day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u104	Mr. President. It's very good to have a good time. A senator referred to a Regulation published by the European Union today. This message has been made very clear to the European Union that it does not seem to be a practice, has been in cooperation with the European Union as a member of the EEA Convention. I personally dealt with Ursulu Ursula der Leyen and received clear answers that these new export restrictions on vaccines would not affect the delivery of vaccines to Iceland from EU Member States in accordance with the agreements we have made. However, we expect the Regulation to be changed in accordance with this clear message, and have presented these views, in accordance with the EEA Convention. I just agree with what. A senator would find it quite strange to receive such a message concerning this Regulation. Hv. A senator asks about the savings. Since December we have made significant improvements, it can be said that looking at what is called in the financial agenda will result in the uncertainty we are in regarding the final economic consequences of the epidemic. But for my part it's perfectly clear that I don't view it as growth in the booth, the improvements we've put into the health system which has been the priority of voters year after year, election elections. I don't see it as growth on the show that we've decided to strengthen the education system, to expand research and innovation, to strengthen the social welfare system. It's not a booth. [[Up front.]] It's about being a community. On the other hand, I believe there is a chance for government management. One of the things we've decided to attack is to reduce the cost by increasing the use of technology, and we've already seen evidence of the increase in digital technology resulting in widespread government savings. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u105	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister spoke previously of less economic damage, improved survival. For who? Because when you look at this financial program, it is as if it is a goal in itself to get some special number out of the accounts of the state rather than to continue maintaining a good society. There are 26,000 Icelanders who struggle with unemployment, and half are struggling to make ends meet. Of course, this sucks for them. But this too is costly for national preparation. About 80% of the past year's state funds were due to a recession of the economy and the job situation, only 20% due to direct action. It is obvious that we will not be able to work at that angle, and that we will not balance government funds unless we work for people, create more jobs, and stimulate economic growth. That's a big job, attacking unemployment. But that is not much done, and it does not promise enough of that in this financial program, unfortunately. And what exactly is the objective of the government with this financial program? Does prime minister agree with the independent party's view that sustainable state life is primarily about a short - term debt ratio? Or does she agree with us in the United States that she is more concerned about the longer-term employment situation and that there is a more reasonable way both to reach the angle and prevent the growth of the situation and to improve the survival of everyone in the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We agree that long - term work effort is the biggest problem, the biggest problem. It needs to be conquered and not allowed to be long - term in our society. I believe that the actions that we have undertaken, both by direct investments, by special employment initiatives, by opportunities to study for those who have lost their jobs, are all measures that will ensure a rapid turn-off. But I also believe that they strengthen and the support we have given companies in the country, small and medium-sized companies, in order to continue working, to have people at work, is also an extremely important action to resist unemployment. I believe that our decision not to cut down on the welfare system and to cut down in education, not in surgery of the health system, is also a very important indication that we are going to defend these systems and the important services they perform and the work they are doing. I believe that all the action I described, i.e. To protect these systems, to put on increased investments, to take direct workforces where we aim to create up to 7,000 jobs by supporting companies, by supporting institutions, free partners, to hire people from unemployment and to get them into the community and to the labour market, as well. A senator is saying, will speed up this resistance. Of course, it will not be overlooked that as vaccination progresses, it will have a major economic impact on society. The actions we have taken have been successful. They have had the success of seeing less tightening than we anticipated, and we are better off at a stronghold than was previously thought to be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u107	Mr. President. Less contraction. V.E.G. The average number of interviews includes the prime minister. It's certainly less contraction than expected. But when it comes to the fact that we have this problem, who are so lucky to have a job, a lot of pay, and the people who carry it, there is a very different picture. Many of us and our homes have benefited directly from this crisis of property, increases in stocks, and so forth, while there are 26,000 people carrying the heat and weight of this. In view of the most optimistic projections, the government does not expect unemployment to be less than 7% in the next year. National forecasting is certainly, like the highest. The prime minister says, but the financial program lacks some credible, optimistic plan on achieving a better position than the forecasts are expected. The plan behind these 7,000 mentioned is not credible enough and much more meat is missing. V.E.G. The prime minister speaks of the government as softening the crisis and the ultimate crisis. The minister of finance speaks of the quality of the home even better. Yes, average homes. Then I must say again, it is not the same home as my home, not my home, nor its home that is unemployed. It will simply be a matter of acting more closely toward the parties today, but it must also be done in order to gain a better balance of national affairs because speaking on paper with debt money is of no importance to the big relationship if we have built up a community that is deemed in two ways between those who are lucky and who have it very good and even better than before a crisis, and those who have much worse and take decades to work their way out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u108	Mr. President. Do I think the product of state funds matters? Yeah. This isn't the first government I'm participating in that has to deal with an economic crisis, and I know that the survival of the state funds is important. Is that why I'm saying that equality in society doesn't matter? No, he's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u109	-...uses it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u110	That's why that's the way it is being used. That's why jobs are being created. Therefore, this government has increased unemployment rates by 35% during the term, extended the period of income-related improvements, ensured additional support to jobseekers and other low income groups, direct tax reductions towards less income, and extending the birthworm, a huge interest problem, while increasing its pay. Hv. A senator criticizes that this has not been done more and that certain groups have become prominent in the community. But I must wonder, " Why is that? ' Yes, it is because interest has been low. [[Up front.]] Would I have liked it to be different? No, indeed. I think that it was part of a successful economic operation that the money policy and the state policy have worked together and we have had a low interest level of this time, which has certainly been a support to people... [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u111	V.E.G. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Granted, lower interest levels have supported people for more housing, but the overall impact of this low interest level for society is positive. I must wonder exactly what this criticism is when we discuss the growth of property in an apartment market that is largely due to a lower interest level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u113	President. I really just want to take the big picture. There is no one factor that has a greater impact on the government budget for the future than the Covid epidemic. I would like to ask the prime minister if we were to make this financial program a variety of scenarios for the development of this epidemic. Today, the British country has just arrived, and it has begun to spread to people who are infected. It is thought to infect children more and generally be more contagious, possibly more harmful. As soon as the infectious factor rises, the product also rises. Our ideas about enough vaccine, a vaccine we have expected, will change. It'll do you any less. At the same time, it is quite clear that during the first studies this new variant, the South African, and the Brazilian, is being distributed, vaccines appear to be less effective. The AstraZeneca vaccine now worked to start somewhere around 74%, reminds me, but is down to 40% with the South African species, although it certainly reduces the chances of you getting seriously ill or dying. However, the activity in a far wider field than that of Pfizer and Modernerna. How has access to the vaccines been taken into account, and what their efficacy is toward these new parameters of virus infection and severity, and how does it develop? We're thinking about how we can try to save the rest of the tour, but it looks like it's going out the window from the new post. How do these scenarios fit into a financial program? These are key parameters in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. It is very difficult to plan on the different effectiveness of vaccines. We decided to work for an international partnership with vaccines because we thought it was important not to own all of us under one manufacturer, it would be important to be betting on more producers. Of course, the development of vaccines has been very rapid, but that is why there are still considerable uncertainty factors, especially regarding these new variations. It is very difficult to evaluate this in a financial programme to the next five years exactly how this combination will be, although we know that four vaccines are in the vaccinees of Iceland during the first two quarters of this year. However, the vaccine provides considerable protection against all variants except possibly one variation, as certain vaccines are considered less effective. This is the information we have now. This is stated on the premonition that we are still in a specific study phase regarding the efficacy of vaccines. The faster the vaccine will, of course, have a tremendous positive economic impact because we are preventing people's illness. On the other hand, there is one thing that we need to face because of it. A senator here mentions the tourist, and of course, we are not alone in the world, and it really requires completion of the whole world's vaccination in order to achieve this epidemic permanently. That's the way it is. This is a major project in which Iceland has actually done well with contributions to international vaccination projects, and we have done our part in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u115	President. I understand that it is, of course, difficult to calculate these variables into a financial program, but it is exactly good to have a conversation about changing things like this will belittle a plan. It's just too much change time to make the only person who was created when thinking about making a financial plan. But making plans is good. Napóleon Bónaparte said that he had not followed one end of the story and that all his plans for all the battle he had gone to had. Yet, he organized all his battles in advance so as to know what was important in the battle and thus can make a decision to act. But it is important that people who are following this discussion, and we here realize that everything is changed by one variant making a vaccine less active, one species being more contagious, which means that the herd resistant breeds up, etc. We need to talk about it. The reason I mention this is because at the beginning of the epidemic, when we were discussing the first rescue package, I discussed it in the dining room when men were putting it up was the idea that it would only be done in May. It was natural to realize, if you had only observed the discussion in the world, that it would probably not be the case, which also became another. This discussion is essential in this regard. We need to continue a discussion about possible scenarios, what this looks like. If this happens, these mutations that now occur with the Brazilian variant and change the basis for vaccine use and even the use of vaccines that we have and access to the vaccine that had the least activity of the one we have been using - it seems that the activity is possible to be reduced there -- that will change the situation in the future. I'm not talking about if there's some sort of potent mutation. That means we need to respond. [[The president calls.]] We may not do this in financial programs right now, but we need to respond very quickly here at the council on how we're going to approach these matters. [[The president calls.]] This will help us to keep these stages clear in front of us. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that the prime minister begin to examine these scenarios about the failure of vaccines and the change of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u116	Mr. President. In my case earlier, I mentioned that we set aside the financial rule at the beginning of this epidemic, such as the winter. A senator clearly points out that the government financial law simply does not assume that such a crisis, which is not just an economic downturn, is about a much larger issue that is struggling with this sleeper, this virus that behaves unforeseeablely. It's very difficult to build models to evaluate what happens next. We've seen it through this epidemic, and all its waves show that each wave has its own distinctive characteristics. And while we're learning from experience, it's very hard to see far into the future, as I was pointing to earlier, that there is now another hundred billion better in the strategy period than we thought it would be in December. Only about 100 days have passed since then, that is not a long time. So I can say with what. This is an occasion for discussion of plans in this area and how we can work more out the internal flexibility, other scenarios. This is one of the factors that financial advisers have highlighted around public financial laws, the importance of drawing up different scenarios. We have learned that lesson, especially from recent years, so I join with what I see. Senator. I'd like to mention what he says about the vaccine and its effectiveness, that now the state of the world is looking at to invest in continued development, actually phase two, in these vaccines. That's what's likely to happen next in all of these matters; on the one hand, the world's countries are trying to complete their vaccinations, and they're going to have to say that, and then countries are looking to how we go into the next phase of development and updates of vaccines. [[The president calls.]] It's gonna be a huge project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u117	Mr. President. I don't want to talk about disease prevention. I want to go over the wide lines with the highest lines. Prime Minister. This is the last financial program proposed by the secretary in this terms. The government has not been without luck to set up financial policies and plans that stand up. A chain in the policy of public finance will be a late legacy of this government. It is true that a pandemic was set in line for the government like all of us, but it does not change the fact that when 2019 C.E. was headed for a disturbance in financial affairs. In this regard, the circulation of 2019 is a clear witness that had 70 billion swings to the worse from the budget of that year. As early as 2018, I and the reveries began to point out over-convincing economic interest leaders, that government funds had become insurmountable at the time of the gathering of gathered investment needs. As soon as a pandemic season came, we would be called repeatedly after a big step, not in a year's time, but right away, in order to get homes and businesses through this scrap, create certainty, and look out for. The fact is, the public investment was drawn by 9.3% in 2020, so that the year to be used for the purpose of making a decision became a year's recession. The government promised increased expenditures and investments in the interiors of last year, both in the budgets of that year and in the stocks, but it does not seem to have paid itself in the real world. We've had this discussion before in this hall, with some of the highest levels. Minister of the government, but right now, when I have the chance to talk about financial plans, this government policy until next year, I want to go to the highest level. Prime Minister on which means it will be able to assure us that the promises of public action will be fulfilled today. The real question is, Why should the public now believe this, believe that these important projects will be carried out? [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to go into any opinion about what projects it is but the wide film that I think is interesting to get the highest. Prime Minister on a conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u118	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say, because the senator discussed this trend in the season of election, that it is certainly true that there have been difficult times for long-term planning in the season, not just because of a pandemic. Let's just say it as it is. It was a shock to the tourism service and the airport when the WOW airline went under. That made a big difference. And, of course, as I said before, it is important that we draw lessons from experience, and it is important that, when the growth in financial stability is restored, we discuss and review this experience and see if in the laws on public finance, we have a greater flexibility in planning. I support it, of course, that we're making long-term plans. I think it's a little more transparent, and I think it's an additional democratic discussion and an increased understanding of how we spend our money and put a certain responsibility on the European Commission so that it needs to be represented by the General Assembly, which has the jurisdiction to do what it is going to do. However, there is good reason to discuss whether there is a need for increased flexibility in this strategy in view of experience, which is not just the pandemic. Investment in interest. It has been noted here in this hall that public investment is not going to increase. To answer, the government's investment is to increase as part of a public investment, which, of course, is both government and rural society. There are, however, other explanations. Investment campaign 2020-2020202025, which I mentioned earlier, is 119 billion. In the 2021 and 2023 C.E., the weight is more heavy in those years than in recent years, 2020. [[The president calls.]] Then, in an investment way that is somewhat different from what we do in politics. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u119	Mr. President. That's the problem with this form; at the same time as I accept that the minister will get in more afterwards, I'm in another psalm. That's the form we're offered. But perhaps most important is the concern of investments, if they come in full weight at the same time as a commercial investor is taking over, we are in a bad situation. You could say, at least looking at the rearview mirror, there may be serious economic mismanagement. But I absolutely agree with it with the highest. Ministers, time is hard to plan. I just want to talk to you about inflation, unemployment, interest, and success of our crown. We are the only nation in the West where Covid has led to increased inflation. Sadly, we live in a state where unemployment seems to be close. We have the largest unemployment rate of OECD countries. And growth is still higher than in controlled countries, although there is a minimum. At the same time, I have to say that it is surprising to see the government's mistrust declaration on the crown by the bill of currency, a new bill that holds in place a vastly broad range of sources of intervention and control, the most widely known in the Western world. It's an intervention the Minister will have brought in without having to have a political conversation here. Then we've come to the point that at the same time it's difficult, even for the most tough of the crown's guards, to interpret this bill differently than that of a mistrust in the same crown, it's being prevented from having a perplexing discussion of this huge affair. In addition, a decision has been made on the part of the government on a foreign loan of hundreds of billions with the benefit we know. We'll know where it'll land if it goes bad. I'm interested that the prime minister will wonder in the few minutes she will be able to handle, whether she is not concerned about the measures made up of the financial strategy we discuss here. [[The president calls.]] Is it sufficient when we consider this interaction with unemployment, increasing inflation, the wax, and then our crown? [[The president calls.]] Aren't we locking ourselves up in some kind of trouble that will take us a long time to work out if this is the road?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u120	Mr. President. Just a little short on my investment so I can finish it. Investment is evaluated as the traditional investment in transport, innovation, and other projects. However, when we are investing in things that are truly of no less importance, such as research and innovation, they do not appear as public investments. They appear as a growing industry investment when they are used. Does it matter? Absolutely. But that does not happen in the box called public investment. [[Up front.]] My opinion is that we should not simply attach ourselves to what we can call traditional investments, but just to look to the variety. I think it matters a lot to the economy. Only about the inflation and gangs and crowns and so on. I'd like to point out that the Secret Bank and the Haust Office predict that in their projections inflammation will resolve relatively quickly as the year passes and the inflation of people and companies is relatively stable. I'd also like to point out that gangaches now are not attributable to some economic error. It is simply a matter of virus that has affected the economy worldwide. I don't think the current professional situation is to make better for another currency. For the bill we have here, it is simply in line with international developments in which we have seen a transformation in how the discussion is about a national response tool, which was a total ban on the years before the financial collapse. There was no use of national eco-efficiency, for there was to be a free flow between countries. Of course, this is completely different. Unbound capital transport can pose an extremely high risk. I don't think it's entirely absurd to talk about that bill at the bottom. The financial and economic ministers here present at the council as some new news, but it is primarily under way to confirm that it is important in a small economy that we have the authority to use national legal instruments that have taken a very different place in the public discussion of these matters over the past few years after the financial collapse of 2008. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u121	A respectable president. We are discussing the budget of the government until 2026. I asked the highest. The secretary of finance to explain why this financial plan has gone uninhabited and to eliminate poverty, let alone the destruction of very poor. In the United States, a certain group lives in a very small group, which, fortunately, is not a large group, but too large, and there are children inside. It is completely incomprehensible to me if it is really the policy of this government, if it continues and wins the elections, to continue to do so completely until 2026 not discussing the elimination of poverty in Iceland. According to the predicted rise in older citizens and disability, only a little more than 2% increase, which is almost half as much as expected pay raise in the same period. I'm asking the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter: Did she know that this was not the case? What, then, is the explanation? Why is this group abandoned? We need to realize that now in Covid, this is the group that's locked up right away. Many of these people have underlying diseases, people who need to start ordering their products through the expensive Internet. And these are the people who now can't afford to do this by the end of the month. That is why this is the group that needs help. I really hope that this group has not been canceled, that nothing should be done for him until 2026.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up the affairs of those whose foot stands, whether they're low - income individuals or micro-energy and rehabilitation pensioners. I want less of it. Of course, a senator says that we have taken a number of measures to strengthen the position of microenergy pensioners during this most elected period of time. It's been reduced. It has been set in motion to change the gaps between key classes in order to increase the income of the most money - rich among the disability - welfare workers. The number of tax increases was designed to make the best use of the income, and they also made monopolies for Covid. In terms of the commercial groups, child support has increased, and this increase has mainly been directed to the most efficient groups. The non-employment rates have been increased by 35%. Support has also been increased by jobseekers with children. But it's about the past. This is about what we've been doing. I'm here to argue that we've been looking particularly at the most efficient groups and just trying to base our actions on the data we have to determine the real provision of different groups. Hv. One senator asks: " Do I see that this will be a stable financial period for the next year? So to answer, this financial plan is the last plan of this terms and it's made up in very uncertain times, as I went over the past. I believe it would be highly unnatural for the current government, at the end of a terms period, to put forth major future operations into the next terms that may have to be implemented by someone else. But I'd like to say it to what. Senator I think we agree that this project is not completed, i.e. to support the worst and most efficient groups in society. [[The president calls.]] It is not finished with the position we are living in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u123	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir for the answers, but at the same time, I have to disagree completely, in that we are talking about a group where, yes, one tax step was lowered, but at the same time, a personal discount was also reduced. As a result, those who were at fault did not receive as much as they should have received. At the same time, what needs to be done has not been done, to reduce the degree of impairment, because chain - carrying impairment often results in the need for those most who need to be held back from making loans, on special housing, and on the rent. It's an inhuman system. I say for my part, I can't figure out why we haven't done something for the worst group since it's, like, the highest. The minister of finance, a small group so many times, yet he says there is no money to address the problems of this small group. You can never find this money. But there seems to be a way to find money if someone else has to be saved in this community. There must be a way to find money to take this group that's got it the worst in the system. We have people who are affected by farms, people who live at just over 200,000 bucks. By taxes. I don't need to be told that this group can't be reached beyond the poverty limit. To have just over 200,000 bucks. The tax paid today is due in very low supply. And even if people go to 300,000. is still in poverty, based on the calculations applied in international contexts, on national incomes, on what pay paid would be required to put people above poverty limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u124	Mr. President. Of course, it is not true that nothing has been done. I covered in detail in previous answers how our actions have just been directed to these groups, to the most efficient groups, to the tax reforms, to children's compensation, to housing. We have been giving special support to the labor movement rented houses by means of planning to improve the security of low - paying workers in this country, which has been just a problem over the years and decades. We've been raising unemployment rates, extending income-related benefits, etc. Of course, it is not that the government's actions did not focus on these people. I considered changes in the microenergy system, where 4 billion have been spent on the task of reducing impairment and, on the other hand, reducing the decline between grading classes to raise the income of the busiest of those in the world of disability and sensibilities. That's the situation. I can agree with what. A senator says that we have not reached some conclusion on the task of supporting more fully the most commercial groups. It certainly is not like that, and it is still a work to do. We can also discuss those who accept financial assistance from fellow members of a rural community who vary greatly. It would have to be discussed with certain types of policy-makers in order to maintain a set minimum limit. We can also discuss the status of young people in a facility. We introduced a new share loan to help young people get into a housing market because it is still a heavy task for young people to do. I can agree with what. It is important to continue this course in order to ensure an equal community. But it cannot be said that nothing has been done, nor can it be said that the government has not specifically acted on these groups, since it has done so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u125	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the last financial program on the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, consisting of the leading class, the left movement an ◯ green supply and an independent party. Of course, it is a turning point when a government produces its own environment, and in the present situation, it is being done in a time of uncertainty because of the modern - day pandemic, and normally, it has stained the discussion of this vital issue here. However, I would like to say at the outset that when you look at this election period, it is, of course, so in the Department of Social Affairs that the projects are not finished. In many ways, though, we have returned a very good home. If we review the key issues under the Department of Social Affairs, in all cases there has been a sharp blow in the term. I'm going to trace it to you in an absolute sense because the discussion here is often about that nothing has been done. Of course, that is not true. In 2017 there were 54 billion people with disability and disability. In 2021 it has reached 83 billion. A group of elderly people had 67 billion, but it has reached 93 billion. Family issues range from 30 billion in 2017 to 47 billion. It is also because we present an operation that is not taken here, called share loans, where the government lends interest without interest to an apartment purchase for a particular group. Of course, there is support, though it is not directly involved in a budget bill when we are borrowing without interest in such matters. But together, the case groups under the Department of Social Affairs have increased on the basis of the annual network since 2017 and 2021 by 70 billion. Every year, 70 billion more of our public funds flow to issues under the Ministry of Social Affairs. Because of this, I am extremely proud of the government that has taken those steps. We have taken steps when it is time to reduce the degree of impairment. We have taken steps when it is time to improve the situation of the most efficient groups of the elderly. We have taken handsome steps when it comes to family members, such as the prolongation of birthworm and the action taking place in the affairs of children and children's families. All of this counts in this 70 billion increase. But, of course, there is one factor that has gone up in these last two years that the person here is not so proud of. It is the labour market or unemployment benefits. This pandemic has made it necessary for us to pay much more on unemployment rates than we did during the first few years of the term. But that is even so. Because we want the systems to catch our people, and they have shown that they are doing so in a very specific way. They will catch our people and those who are going through this pandemic. But it is also this way, when we then discuss a financial agenda, that it will attack first and last of the way we're trying to reduce this point, how we're going to reduce our unemployment, when it comes to protecting other aspects of the welfare system. It is fundamental that we succeed in getting our tourism back on course, starting our business after this pandemic. The government has been taking decisive steps in this, both by means of investment plans, investoring a variety of investments, but also by direct workforce measures, such as the one we recently introduced and intended to create some 7,000 jobs. The next year's work will be to protect our well - being and the key to maintaining the position that this government has built up and added to, and will fall by the way we start our business and reduce unemployment. A respectable president. I look proud at the four years that have passed. We've done huge things, and I really hope we can move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u126	Mr. President. The forwarding regime, the left green and independent party, shows a lack of ambition when there are six months left of the election and with old news on financial programs for the next five years. Old news based on last year's situation at the beginning of the council. An even clearer signal of inequities in Icelandic society has been observed, even more so than the last autumn because of the greatest unemployment we have ever experienced. Also, low - pay rates do not increase in disability, and this is how large groups of community groups, jobseekers, elderly, sick, and their children are kept in a poverty trap. The only upgrade to the government is not due to improved fools, but as a result of growth in this group. The 70 billion that go to the highest topic category. Ministers are on the rise, due to more projects. This policy of the government to the next five years depends on the situation six months ago. What are we talking about? Yeah, if the pensions had increased according to a pay sheet, it wouldn't be more than $250,000. It's almost 300,000. If the cost of a micro-energy pension had not been frozen in a dollar in 2009, it should rightly be nearly twice as high today. Mr. President. Perhaps the highest. The social and child - care minister of this pandemic is not important, but it is essential that governments do anything to reduce the inequities of Icelandic society, inequities which, Mr President, prevent economic growth from growing in an equalized country. Sadly, the government parties have voted against our proposal to try to guarantee an equation as far as possible. That's why I'd like to ask, Mr. President, if it's the highest. The social and child - care minister is not concerned about the inequities that appear in the community today. [[The president calls.]] I want to pray to the highest. Minister of not talking about absolutes of litigation but facts about the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. We need to be ever alert and put it in full priority in terms of our country. The person being present has always spoken about, and the Department of Social Affairs in the history of this government has taken an important step in working with both the council, in cooperation with the labor movement, in the biographer contract, in terms of measures to make up for housing that depend on sharing loans to assist young people and those in poor company to get into their own homes, I mention measures that we've undertaken in tax issues that all aim to reduce tax burden on the lowest income. All of these are the actions that had to do with the biographer contract. I also mention the growth of general apartments that will continue during this terms, so all of this has to do with the same. But if you do. A senator is trying to fish for a social minister to come up and say: Now we've reached the perfect community, now we're all equal, then we're not. The mission isn't over yet. We have taken important steps, but the task is not over. The basic reason we can continue to increase the investment in people through the Social Services Department is that we will be able to recover unemployment. It is very difficult to plan these mid - pandemic activities when the largest sector is completely closed. In the years to come, increasing employment will be an assignment because the future will allow for room in the financial affairs. I also told it here in the beginning that we are, of course, discussing this document in a time of great uncertainty. The news changes every day, and we're making plans, and they change every day because this virus is out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u128	Mr. President. Yeah, things change every day. If unemployment is failing because of a better time, we need not worry that we are overemphasising unemployment because these people are already working. We need not worry that we have made room beyond what is needed. There will never be lost money. This is about not passing the UN's proposal on long - term unemployment benefits, not failing to submit to the United States' proposal that students have at these unprecedented times, including right to unemployment, not to submit to the United States' proposal to prolong the income - related period of unemployment. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the words of Ká Kári Stefánsson, a Cestlight Show of the evening, says that employees of foreign descent who lost their jobs because of an epidemic are coming to the land because of their rights at this time because of the nature of the environment. Those of a foreign background must apply for permission to go abroad for a job search, and it can be a maximum of three months. If you are not authorized, you need to come home and report to the Icelandic IP that you are still out of work and for a job job. Because of these words by Kári son of Stefánsson that there is evidence of transmission of infection, including with these groups, I would like to ask if it is possible to make life easier for these people. It has, of course, paid its share in the insurance system, the unemployment insurance system, and you wonder if we should react to this if it's a problem that's showing up to us right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u129	A respectable president. Just for the last time. A senator mentioned. I didn't see a review of Cast Light Field, but it's clear that jobseekers can go outside to find a job and hold a set month's pay. However, the jobseekers are expected to be in this country in an active job search outside of the time or in studies or other measures, and this is extremely important for efficiency in this system. When it comes to the extension of a period of improvement, there was a why. A senator said that the one standing here would be opposed. Yes, I have objected to the photo proposed by the Conspiracy for those with unemployment, 30 months of basic nonprofit work, which is more than 300,000 dollars. What kind of operation were we promoting in cooperation with our communities? We were just suggesting that for the past six months, all persons who have been out of work and those who have just completed the exorbitant rights may now be able to cooperate with their communities for work, for jobs that will be created by the local community. There we guarantee minimum income-related benefits of 500,000 dollars. During a month, we have extended the improvement period in the form of a job and in the form of a higher income. This, in turn, helps... [[Up front.]] That's for all those who've completed a reform period, huh? Senator. We also contribute to increasing the income of rural society. That's why I object to the Continental proposal to extend the improvement period to the image it is. [[Up front.]] It is assumed that every person who completes his rights can enter this project, where he is able to get a high double extension. He is created to work, to work, to create work, and to act. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Let's just talk in six months, okay? Senator. This proposal is much better than the United States' proposal to extend the improvement rights from 30 to 35 months on basic non-functional reforms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u130	President. I'm gonna continue with what was running out. It's an interesting proposal that's being made, creating jobs, 7,000 new jobs, finishing just before election. The problem is that the budget is not enough for six months for 7,000 people compared to the figures they're talking about. I don't know how it works if you use simple division and multiplication and fun. I'd like to ask you something else. We are now considering a financial program in which governments submit their policy and provide specific guidelines. We will achieve this success by using public funds for what we believe to be our good work in government policy. It's, for example. added support to the decrease in income - stricken parents. That reference should be 7.5%, i.e. ratio of less than 60% of the median human provision for children's families. The score 2019 is 8%, the reference set for 2021 should be dropped to 7.5%, fantastic. But we can't get an up-to-date weather policy. We have no idea what the situation is 2020. Whether or not the government's policy is developing, we cannot tell whether it is going toward these goals. Why not? V.E.G. A minister speaks of an infinite setting, an additional 70 billion in his language. If we take into account inflation, that figure will reduce by about 10 billion or so, that is such a gross shot. But we must always ask ourselves, " Why is this increase? ' What does it give us in our goals, in progress on the use of public funds? Most of what I've seen, the biggest part of this amount, is systematic growth and the highest. A minister cannot begin to boast about an additional 60 billion to this class of topics just because of the system's growth. [[The president calls.]] The minister could, in turn, disband this relatively limited context for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders for this matter, and he agrees with him in this regard, especially with those in the everyday language called the soft litigation groups, such as social affairs, health issues, education. We could do so much more economically than we have been doing, not just from achieving the goals we set for the worse. A senator mentioned, regarding the low income, etc., but also looking at each individual and seeing how we can use these our systems to build up individuals and to think about them from the long term income industry. We did that for the first time in the work of children's affairs, thinking about how we could invest in the individual and what he would do for a long time if we failed to reduce the risk of eventually becoming involved in the social system. We have the exact same approach now on the issues of prisoners. So I accept these criticisms. A senator, taking it to me as much as anyone. I have found the Ministry of Economics and the financial thinking that we have not taken enough into account by looking at these human values and setting indicators on them. When it comes to the amount I mentioned earlier, it is absolutely true that inside it is part of a systematic growth, but inside there are tasks, I just don't have time to trace it all into a five-minute talk. We have, for example, extended the birthworm. This government has raised pay on maternity vacations. It has increased in every year since 2016 and then in 2022, if not cut off, by about 10 billion every year that flows from the public to a family in this country to support them more in the first few months of each child's life. You're absolutely correct in saying this is part of a systematic growth. [[The president calls.]] But it does not change that the areas in which I am involved have increased my financial resources during this terms, both for new projects, but, of course, there is also a systematic growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u132	A respectable president. A minister can count this out in five minutes. There were 2.9 billion reductions in a dollar, 1.1 billion, now that the system changes have not been fixed in the microdoting sector. It was the integration of children's services to 1.9 billion, and then there's the baby settlement and the birthworm, listed earlier. I've had 25 seconds, it's perfectly possible to do this in five minutes. Yes, these gauges need to be, but that's something to the highest. A minister is responsible for his field of affairs, not for the Ministry of finance or anyone else. Instead of coming here and saying 60 billion, or like the highest. Minister said: 70 billion, which is now an approximate value. 10 billion lower, he could count this in a more beneficial way for us so that we can get a better overall picture of the media fields as high as possible. Minister is responsible. But I'm not worried about the top case. Minister. Take it, for example. The leg of birth. We pay it ourselves through the insurance bill - exactly, so we can't necessarily talk about raising the money we're paying on because we're probably asking people to pay extra on the insurance bill, because the fund is going to work through that price. [[Up front.]] There are these things that concern me about government policy. Where are the metering bars of the goals that governments say they are going to achieve? What are our goals, and will we reach them or not? Because the topic areas are not updated, we cannot see the state 2020 and then we have no idea whether we will reach our objective or not use public funds as if it should be done under official financial laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u133	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator specifically mentioned the maternity problem, so it is with the lawsuits that the insurance fee is designed to finance our spending much higher sums of money on those lawsuits. [[Up front.]] This ain't no sirka, huh? A senator counted 10 billion earlier, and he paged them. I think we're talking about over 100 billion of the world's entire budget for the people in the country. [[Up front.]] Let us remember why this is so. That is because the government of those times has set people priorities. It also prioritizes companies by not raising the insurance bill in return. At that time, the wealth of the state takes on the amount of money it buys, tens of billions, to run to people and businesses in the country. [[Up front.]] That is why the government has such priorities. It is the priorities of the government to decide to use our systems to support our people, both during the first few months of each child's life and also the unemployment insurance system. How do you think the debate would have been here at the Congress Hall if the government had come and announced that the insurance bill would now be raised to support higher unemployment benefits? I've never heard what. A senator protests unemployment benefits. Then I'd like to say that there's a lot of data involved in the factors involved here, that I'll agree with that. A senator and I said so. I'll take on criticism. Senator. I don't feel that we have enough economic values, not just from what money is in our current budget, but what is the real investment to the future in this system and what is not, what can save us later in crowns and pennies. [[The president calls.]] We've been taking steps into that creature, a big step, and I would like to take bigger steps in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u134	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that I think this financial plan, this policy of three categories of governments who have expressed their determination to continue the partnership after the next election, they get away with it, be pretty wealthy. In this piece the vision is funded by the future, the 35 - case policy field, but these policy measures remain between the administration of the last financial plan of the government and the last autumn. I find it difficult to understand the new direction of the Supreme Court. A social minister cannot take into account the new challenges people face and wants to know why they are. I'm not talking about raising money here. I'm talking about policy-making, why the experience we now have in a year, the effect on people's well-being, the impact on society, should not have called for some change of direction that has become available in this document. But okay. Let's talk about the past too. A minister has been introducing in the media a systematic change in the service of children and families. Good and important system change. I'd like a minister to go through just how that change is funded in a financial program. I ask because, by permission of the President's comments in the comments from the city of Reykjavík: ▪ Determinable projects, if by law, will be large and costly for rural society and therefore need to ensure the maintenance of its new income stocks permanently. And the final words in the state of the Union's positive statement are these, with permission of a president: However, the implementation of projects, financing and induction is still unclear, but the key is that active cooperation is achieved across the Ministry and the administrative level. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is he satisfied with the funding of this huge project as it seems in the financial program we are discussing today? There are a lot of reporters who are positive about the doubts that this will do so, so I don't say it strong, and I want to know what the minister's position is for the payment of this case in the details we are discussing right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u135	A respectable president. Briefly answer a question. The senator to see if the Minister is comfortable with the funding of the case is: Yes, he is perfectly satisfied. I'm gonna trace it. When we won this case, a practical analysis of what was made by Björn Brynjúlfur Björnsson was made. He sent hundreds of messages to all the parties affected by these laws. They gave in how much they thought this would cost. On that basis, the economic benefit of the case was then calculated for the next decades. We wanted to go deeper into the analysis, how much we thought this would cost, so we hired another external adviser, Haraldur Líndalur Haraldsson, who knows the level of government to dive into this. He found out about the same number that Björn Brynjúlfur had learned after his release. There are in the range of 1,51⁄2 billion per year that this system change will cost from the preparation, database, induction team and other sources. Then it is divided into both kingdoms and rural areas. What's happening to the state is in my language field in this bill. What has been added to the rural communities is contained in an equation fund. So the case is completely financed for the next three years. We also have the funds we need in the current year to provide a unique network of communication that should be underlying in this system to help all parties communicate with them. It's being prepared for tenders, we have funding for it, and we have to install a special import team. But we can't start that invitation until the council closes the case, if there are any changes involved. So, yes, I'm perfectly comfortable with the funding of the case and I can't wait to start bringing it in once the council has approved the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u136	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister before, and I'm glad to know that the situation is this. I'm only thinking that this is not to be returned to the number of people who have happened to the committee, and that is something that may have to be done, whether it is a relationship that has somehow failed or a lack of confidence on the part of rural society and other members. That is, then, the highest. Department of Social Affairs is facing an improvement. I would also like to remind me of my first question, "Is it not necessary for the highest degree? " Minister to proceed to policy on these matters. Then I'd like to ask you something. Now we have a record, a bad record, an increase in unemployment. There have been many suggestions for taking action since the outbreak of this epidemic, and I did not tire of mentioning that we were talking about big steps right away and had many suggestions. They may not all age as well as other human works, but they have one thing in common; they were all thoughtlessly for the year that has passed by on the side of the government. The same is true of a number of suggestions made by other groups of government opposition. In turn, some of the suggestions have hung up on the part of the government in order to cope with the extreme unemployment we face. If we are not able to solve the problem, let us not belittle it. It's a social ill that we'll be out of for a long time. I'd like to use my last seconds to ask for my highest opinion. Ministers I know of being a man often to see the big film, whether it would not have been successful if the approach of the government classes from the beginning to the proposals of government resistance had been more in the spirit of cooperation and concerted effort rather than of this traditional shooting-infested bitch that all that came from here, and the rest of it all agreed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We could have saved a lot of time with a different way of doing things. What's going on? A minister of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u137	A respectable president. Since there is little doubt about the fact that the financial program we are now discussing has not been making enough changes. I think if she had taken a very big change, it would have been a serious risk, just so we speak Icelandic, that people would have gone to all kinds of non-profit campaigns in a financial program. I don't think that would have been helpful for popularity or debate in the conference hall. This is also due to the rapid change of the situation from week to week, from month to month. We are not at the point of being able to figure out exactly what the next year will be, so to speak. I don't think it's often happened when the next spring months are around the corner that we haven't known if there's going to be a travel service in the summer or not. That's what we're wondering. This is the fact, and in these situations plans are difficult to plan. For the lack of thought and cooperation and the like, we've gone through a major system change that has led to the affairs of children, to which all members of Congress have arrived, with tremendous cooperation. Such cooperation, as good as it is, often takes an enormous amount of time. It's just a fact. This is often so that many of the things we've brought into our business are consistent with what has come from a position of government, and we can play along with it back and forth. However, it is often so that many of the cases that have been introduced here have not been prepared for the occasion, not just in agreement with members of the council, but in agreement with stakeholders. That may have been the case. They cannot be taken in consultation. Often these cases have not been able to read the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the same way because we have been injecting matters at tremendous speeds in an effort to cope with very strange situations. It's not my business out there and I've been criticized for the Hall that I've just accepted because that's the problem when we're trying to run really fast. This often leads to failure. At times, they have had to be corrected during the council, but there have also been times when some legal arrangements had to be corrected. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid that's the case with us in such a strange situation as we've been here for the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u138	V.E.G. President. It is to be heard that the work of social and child - care ministers is important and, of course, there are many of them. But children's issues, disability, and older citizens are probably the most important subjects. In the affairs of older citizens, long-term improvements are needed. The cutting and the extremely unjust tax system must eliminate, seek practical solutions, and have to be in the spirit of the action that was under attack before a crash. We must take advantage of every opportunity of society and make sure that the benefits are fair for all the people of the country. Most of the provisions go to homes, whether rent or rent. There must be plenty of provision for a country's territory. The problem is that in today's demand conditions, the problem is much higher than the availability. This means that in many cases, there is a direct decrease in interest to the price of housing. As a result, while housing is not sufficient, people, especially young people, are not better equipped. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to how he intends to handle this, especially when it comes to disability. Sadly, many young people are desperate, and that group must especially be affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Before I go to the challenge we are facing right now and now. A senator was very well traced, i.e. In terms of growth and increased demand, and lack of housing due to loss of weight, I would like to say regarding the housing situation that we have undergone various measures in the programme period. We've been adding to the overall housing system, which is a lavender system designed to build apartments for the busiest groups in society. It is based on a law bill introduced by the then social and housing minister of the Agency, Eygló Harðardóttir in 2016. We have been constantly building more apartments and will continue to do so. That's where we can reach this group. Then we introduced new share loans, but they also plan to include the incomeiest group and to assist those who do not wish to be on rent to get their own housing. The state lends 201⁄230% interest-free, to a set number of years to these most income-priored groups. That, of course, is a major operation. But when it comes to the discussion of the increase in house prices because of the decrease in interest of interest, I've only been watching her. I'm not an economist, and I try not to get too involved in that. On the other hand, I have found that special political bitch who has been in progress when someone has said that growth is not to be reduced because it has an effect on the housing market. But then we need to go to the other part of the building. I must say, there is a very difficult situation for a minister who holds housing because he has nothing to offer. There is another level of administration that holds out property in this country. I'm really worried about the proposal at the administrative level, especially with the convergence policy in Reykjavík, that we're not gonna make it. So I agree with it. What we can do is either encourage our communities with good intentions to plan lands or bring some kind of law that obliges them to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u140	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. A strong sense of identity affects the person's conduct. How important it is, then, to lay the foundation early in life by supporting young ones and young ones to create opportunities for maturity, skills, and survival. There's got to be a lot of emphasis on the possibility of that. I can think of boys and children and youths of foreign background. It's about much of the social. Now I'm having a little trouble with children, and I'm glad that, of course, I know that there are obstacles, especially with regard to the capital side, at least some of our rural communities have told us and even those who are supposed to perform the ministry. But those who are not young. How's the top? Minister to seize older ones? Is it within the picture to increase tax pay, to put an effort to strengthen the self - image of older ones in a similar way that a minister is doing in the affairs of children? Has a minister made a plan to create an opportunity for people with limited ability to do what he has to do? Could it be one way that a person evaluated with 55% energy can do 45% jobs without cutting disability? I could go on, but I think there's quite a number of questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u141	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. We had in mind trying to combat major system changes in subjects that are responsible for the ability and promotion of people's activities there. I've also said that here I was disappointed that we didn't achieve it the way we recommended it. We had to slow down that road and then crash into a pandemic, and we simply did not work out the solution to that situation along with other projects. But I agree with what. Senator on the importance of this. But we've been trying to make changes in the system in ways that we're doing -- I'm not saying the both, but we've been raising what goes into rehabilitation money and what goes through it so that people don't go into disability right away because it's just that our community shouldn't admit it. There are steps that are somewhat similar in our current course of action with regard to those who have been unemployed for a very long time because there is a serious risk that even young people may become weak. We are also taking steps to pay the largest money in the nation's history in creating jobs for that group because these individuals are so likely to fall out of a workforce and then end up in disability. I'm very excited to see how it turns out and how my rural society is involved in that project. I agree with what. A senator says that this group needs work that is comparable to what we have done in the affairs of children. But it is simply that way in a small control system, and when a pandemic also strikes, you too may not have as many balls as you would have chosen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'll take the cheeky bang. A senator and comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u142	A respectable president. We'll discuss the budget to 2026. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs questions I've asked the secretary of finance and the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister. It is a fact that in this financial program, which he said he was proud of, if I heard correctly, poverty is not mentioned, let alone the inexhaustible or the insurrection that brings us to shame that we are still here. True, in our time, we corrected for poor housing, which, of course, was the best case, so that relief workers obtain 10% less than the lowest pension, as well as a dollar in return. I'm asking the highest. Social Affairs whether it's time he didn't feel that he was taking both this 10% away and received a dollar of the loans because these changes, changes in systems cost more than correcting this. This would be savings for the government to take back. Then I'd like to ask a secretary about students, but they work with students and pay in the employment insurance system: How do you not get unemployment benefits back? Is it not merely a recording of money they've already paid for? And most important, it's the share loans because they seem to have messed up completely. I get indications that people who have a very low salary and who are finding apartments cannot buy them because their apartments are so expensive, the roof of what they can buy is so low that they don't get enough for the ones in the market, and if any apartments are found, they're fighting for them. So it doesn't work out. There's got to be more room for the share loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u143	A respectable president. They were a number of questions. There was a senator. First about poverty and extreme poverty. We now have in this pandemic to make up a special budget for less - income homes, an extra sports and leisure allowance for less - income households. We've had a number of Covid actions in cooperation with free partners and others, both in order to manipulate this group and bring in a certain amount of funds. And with the action that starts, we can also control this group, because of the circumstances. A senator has mentioned that those who go to financial assistance after completing their rights go down to 180,000,220,000 k. financial support. We are ensuring work there, so we are always making some kind of effort to reach this group. But have we completed this assignment? No. I think we need to put our arms around this party not only on the terms of the social security system but also on the grounds of the problem, how we can force people to get out of this position. It has been taking steps, both in cooperation with various free organizations, but also within the Ministry. For students, a person who loses his job is registered to a job search. He should be looking for another job. That's what the unemployment insurance system is about. However, we have already noted that a person who is out of work can start studying and be on his hair until the following year, when he will be assigned to a student's loan. We have our own system there, and that's why since the collapse of the economy, people have not been ready to take these steps. I may come in a little better after that and also answer a question. Senator on the stock loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u144	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for Answers. We know that there is a certain group that always lands between ships and docks and faces both spiritual and financial difficulties. Now the fourth wave is on and closed and locked. People with underlying diseases are now locked up. They can't afford to buy food for the month. They're locked up. V.E.G. Social Affairs has spoken of this as being on a committee, this is being reviewed. But people cannot eat what is under committee or revised. They need food now, they're locked up. What can they do? What's to be done? It's expensive to order food and people don't have money for food at the end of the month. This is the highest group. Secretary of finance says there are few. But I asked him: " Since it's such a small group, why on earth has he not been helped? ' And he said, It is so high. It's so expensive. But it just can't be incredibly expensive to grab someone with 200,000 bucks. paid to buy a meal and live a decent life in Iceland. It's just impossible. It is now, for example. is under attack, which is very impressive, 472,000. for six months. But watch the numbers. It's people who get 240,000 bucks. for taxes. How on earth is that supposed to survive? You say you're proud of this system, that it's been established. You can't be proud of this. They're a small group, they're supposed to help, and they've already been told they're supposed to help. But as soon as you're reminded of them, it's always so expensive. It's not expensive. It's so expensive to have this because it's going to cost us a lot more not to help these people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u145	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to answer all three questions. A senator asked, I owed him one of the previous answers that paid off to the stock loans. Of course, that strategy is just beginning to take place. Let's find out about the law on general apartments approved here at 2016 that Iceland's Democratic Association did not start until 2018, 2019, two to three years later. We have already seen the share loan start, however, where families have been finding housing and are entering it. There are dozens of contractors, I remind you there are between 70 and 80 contractors, who have registered to a game at Homeland and Engineers, who want to build apartments in this system so we'll see their growth in the next few years. It gives us good hope for the future of these laws, i.e. The way this thing works. I'd like to tell you about the individuals who are now in such financial situation with Covid that they can't get their food, etc., that there are some challenging situations facing people, and I'm saying, "I'm sorry." A senator with that. We've been watching with community services because we have a law in this country that assigns the community service to handle the development of these groups, to assist them in some way. We have worked very hard to cooperate with this dense network. And just this morning, I had a meeting with social rulers all around the country where we were discussing the challenges now and where to add, etc. Since then, we have also joined into this network of various members to enter there. People in this position are to be turned to their social services, but many measures we have taken have been aimed at strengthening the activity that has been carried out there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So we've done a lot of things. Is everything perfect? [[The president calls.]] No, it isn't, no more than it is in life or anyone else's.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u146	A respectable president. The media range that falls under my field of work is No. 12, 13, and in part 7, 16, and 21. The main budget for agriculture is about 17.7 billion dollars. every year and approximately 8.5 billion in the field of fishing and fishing. The largest changes in the amount of money during the planned period turn toward building a new ocean study vessel, but also results in a temporary contribution to agriculture due to Covid-19. Other factors are not dramatic changes in budgetary mothers of individual subjects. Yet, during the years to come, tremendous changes lie ahead. This is evident from all the rising and the wind that major changes will take place in the environment of these factors, including how they will contribute to the nation's habitation. These adjusted priorities are being handled well by financial programs and programs available in those areas and will reveal how we will handle them. The revision of all market agreements has been completed. There were substantial changes in agricultural work conditions, including those on agri-environment schemes. with measures that help to increase the balance between supply and market demand with sheep products, that were blown up in gardening, and that were lost from milk production management deduction. In all the contracts, climate is under high priority and have farmers and governments unite in the clear vision that the year 2040 will be fully leveled in Icelandic agriculture. The agrienvironment schemes will soon be introduced to the specific agricultural surface, which will provide clear and accessible information on agricultural production in this country. This project will increase transparency and provide a clear perspective on production including: and thus improve policy. I have also set up a 12 - team plan to support the support of Icelandic agriculture in the light of the direct and indirect effects the Korean epidemic has had on the article. Funds for 2021 agreed to defend 970 million. K. To meet farmers'needs because of the epidemic, there is now an export of the funds that will be taken care of. In particular, sheep farmers are seen there, with 700 million. K. magazines are spent in that article and 243 billion. K. to the cattle farm. I would also like to mention the newly formed Food Fund, which has the responsibility of strengthening development and innovation in the production and implementation of food from agriculture and fishing roads. We're entering this new fund about 750 million. K. Over the years, it was 2,22223. I think this fund is a major step for Icelandic agriculture and marine soil and that its activities will greatly increase the production of food on the land. Global trends and currents govern the seas and fish farms to a considerable extent. In order to sell products on international markets it is fundamental to have and keep a witness. This is of utmost importance when we consider that 98◯ 99% of our labor is going to a foreign market, where competition is tremendously intense. Fishing is a growing industry. This year, it can be estimated that its export value will be in the range of 253/430 billion. But last year, the export value of all the cods we exported was about 130 billion. This shows that fishing is growing very fast and is already an important export. I would like to mention, too, that we have set up the first food policy for the country and have taken steps to increase the importance of food and food management. Furthermore, in connection with the virus, we have emphasized the importance of the national food security. We have been working very firmly and decisively on the basis of a food security strategy, securing the protection of farms, and improving the competitive status of domestic food production. Iceland's agricultural university has prepared a food security report in Iceland that was published earlier this year, which will provide the basis for the work being carried out by the National Security Council in this important field. At the end of the summer, I introduced a plan to increase the number of public jobs in the country. It is a pleasure to be able to report now that work in the field of fish farming in the country has already been filled, in particular on Western and Eastern countries. Then, however, there have been two new jobs, Ness trade, and Ólafurvík. In addition, Matize has made a contract for three new jobs in the country. The number of jobs at the headquarters of a Fish Room in Akureyri has increased as the Hafnarfjörður has decreased. This problem will continue to be counteracted, since all the distances have been reduced in the country, but we have seen it now, just during the past year, how powerful the structure of high - speed connections around the country has reduced, and most of the public employees and companies that use their services have learned a great deal about the communications that can be used to strengthen these jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u147	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the review of financial programs. It is a joy, as noted in his speech, that the fishery is growing in great numbers, and the future is rather bright in these matters. But I'd like to ask the Minister about ocean research. We've got a new ship now. It will be a joy to receive it when it arrives. However, regarding research into fish species that we earn from hunting with Icelanders, it was clearly seen that research is being done. We used to be, for example. Two years had been hairy, and then much research was done because they knew that it was more hairy in the sea. It turned out that fishing was possible, and the cost was up to 30 billion, so it worked. I'd like to ask the Minister about the research of other fish, such as inflation, fine white trash, a gray patch, and so on. White trash has been banned in direct hunting. And when you ask about what's going on, there's no news that a Marine Research Institute says that he doesn't have enough money to research that kind of fish as they would like. The same goes for the gray patch. It is assessed as measured by post-commutations of a tug at the tug of a tug. The waves swing from year to year, and the catchers around the fishing industry do not believe much in these measurements because the swing is so intense that the size of the population is not very trustworthy. Then the question arises: May we expect more money in research for e.g. These fish?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u148	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yes, I agree that the fish fire is on the offensive. We can even see it. on the fact that the Fishing Fund tells us, the contributions made by rural partners to build up and strengthen the infrastructure are expected to be about 100 million. K. It has grown in a few years up to half a billion. There's no question about it. When we talk about the ocean research at the Oceanographic Institute, it's just, like, what happened. A senator here mentioned that we were struggling with homophobicism. I'm on the fact that supplementary funding approved by the General for the Agency right now in the winter is actually the basis for the season that then became a reality, so there is a direct link between the valuables that were drawn to the land and the financial resources that have been placed in the Agency in recent years. We have -- I don't say every year, but in recent years we've put substantial funds into the Agency with the main objective of supporting up-front fish research. Hv. For example, a senator mentions an area where our knowledge is lacking, white - eyed, and gray. It is true that knowledge is gloomy, especially when it comes to getting gray. Likewise, the stem size is like a capricide. In the program we are discussing here, we have not expected any growth in individual language groups at all. We assume that the frameworks as they have been in the last financial programme will stay. We're not talking about reforms or cuts. We're talking about a rather recalculated frame. This means that an institution like a Merit Research Institute, such as other financial institutions, must prioritize the work it operates on the basis of the financial resources it makes at any given time. But there are no specially marked funds in this institution, so it has to be the role of our scientific people to set the standards for the research that is under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u149	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for that answer. As shown in the minister's speech, we received additional funding for research on the hairy ground, since we could start fishing and return the amount of the people worth about 30 billion. And now we're getting a little smaller. It tells you that increased research is effective. I'm sure they would, too, about the other species I listed earlier. But it is natural to be cautious and to let nature benefit from the doubt, or fish species, in this case. It's totally logical, and I agree with it. But considering the added financial support that has resulted from our being able to catch fur again, we will also have increased financial support that we may be able to produce more exaggeration. We might even catch a nap again, and the gray patch may be more real in size estimates than it is today. And speaking of not being marked for each species of fish, I'm sure a marine research agency will be able to use extra money for further research and the fish that I listed. I can only say as a senator who has a good relationship with sailors, that the pull on the laity has increased completely over the past few years, and now people call for something to be done on the relevant issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u150	A respectable president. Yeah, I've been given the talk on nerds my way and I've directed them to the Agency to review their advice. They have not yet seen reason to change anything. But there is one thing I would like to mention about the fur and the search for it, that we must not forget the company's contribution to the surrogacy, which is very much and very good, and which in fact determines the outcome that we can achieve this catch on land. Besides, it's wonderful to have an opportunity to discuss the blessed gray patch here. A senator. I thank him for mentioning this beautiful and respectable creature. Yeah, I think we both know how sad it was, for example. in the last season, before its beginning, to have no better information on stock size and any other information about the gray patch. We just barely made it back in the corner. The knowledge of this creature is not so much, unfortunately, that we can be spoken of as having great accuracy there. I'd like to reiterate that I think we've always got the opportunity to do research. The need for research resources will never be fully satisfied, for there are many things that are completely unsearched in the ocean. There's no more work to be done. This is the frame that has been drawn, and we must simply trust that our fine people, who work within the context of this important agency, put their money at their disposal for the most important projects they need to take care of. I know that the money, though, is so great that we can do other tasks but directly those that merely depend on the importance. The Agency is well - funded and has more work to do than just some emergency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u151	Mr. President. I'm gonna start with the agriculture. I've been tireless to discuss over the last four years that we need to increase and facilitate the production of vegetables in this country because Icelandic vegetables are good, but also to reduce the import of carbon pollution. It also provides currency savings, more food security, building strength, and increasing employment. We in the United States stress that the interests of farmers and consumers go together in innovation, sustainableity, and the well - being of animals. To strengthen the agricultural environment ensures safety and survival of farms, building blocks, increasing farmers' freedom, leading to economic and eco-friendly quality production. In the new environmental policy of the European Community, European agriculture sharpens its focus on the environment and encourages farmers and agriculture as a whole to consider improving projects. The environment is to be a guide, an incentive, and tools for positive imagination and the basis for the future cooperation of farmers and environmental governments. The policy discusses the importance of reevaluing agricultural contracts and future contracts for state and farms on an eco-related environmental project, which is a source of joy, but the agriculture needs to be supported to this point. A report from the Council of Management this week reported that there was a supposed increase in donations for climate surgery. It is, in fact, there. referred to as climate-based agriculture, it is assumed that up until 2031, which is much longer than the programme we are considering, there will be contributions to a climate-based agricultural product of 1,250 million. K. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if the government has clear objectives on this contribution. It would be interesting to know in what form these donations will be. Are we discussing taxes because of energy exchange or direct strength? Or, in other words, what is the purpose of this strength?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, we're in the same place about the importance of increasing vegetable production in Iceland. I think there is a great deal of agreement on that emphasis, and that is why, of course, I am very grateful for the confidence and support that this case received when we increased our plans in vegetable production by 25% over two to three years in the review of the agricultural agreements. What joy there must be to all who have those priorities! There are many and varied tasks that go well with the emphasis I hear. A senator has. I'm just going to mention a food policy for Iceland, a policy on the public shopping of food, etc., all of this is under way, and we're working on a review of agricultural contracts where we meet, farmers and the government, to set goals for ourselves in climate. Because of what? A senator asks what assignments are under them all in progress. This is being defined by the loyal assistance of the local community, the Environment Ministry, and my Ministry. It's all gone into a process. The goals are fairly clear in dates, but the result is that not all of them are available. I have sometimes found that we are far more concerned with setting our goals and making financial demands without knowing our way over our heads how we're gonna spend them, how we're going to measure their progress, etc. However, it is understandable in many ways, in view of the emphasis in the community, to first ensure a solid solidarity on these major goals, where we will be in 2040, to take up the money, and then give us time to form both the definition of projects, and to set standards. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u153	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and rejoice that all of this is in progress. But I hope it won't take too long, because it needs to be started. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers that it is very important to be careful and not just pick something up, and that's exactly why I asked. In a second answer, I'm going to move over to the seabed, i.e. His musculoskeletal system. The same discussion last autumn was a subject of debate. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir at the highest. A minister on the status of the Fish Room was then offered a substantial decrease in the amount of money to the Agency. This came as a surprise, especially in view of the clear suggestions on the growth of the Fishing Room and, if that is to be done properly, it will bring no expense. V.E.G. A minister replied that it was not a minister's intention to cut down the fishing check and that it had never been his intention. The situation is, however, that fishing clinic is subsidized today. The Agency has repeatedly expressed her concern about the situation and was fired by a loss last year. On top of this, the Council and the Ministry have been giving more projects to the Agency, unfortunately with no apparent financial support for them. Changes were then made to the so - called AVS fund, which worked out with the previously mentioned Food Fund, which has resulted in a measure of support for the Agency. Mr. President. If I read the current plan correctly, there is no other way to see that the Agency's recession ahead. The highest. Minister confirm this? How much is your contractions? Are we talking about 2%? 5%? What are we talking about? How does a minister see that the Agency will be enabled to carry out its basic tasks in such an operation that is already having problems with her handling or, Mr. President, the highest level of work. Ministers suspect that the Agency should be released?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u154	A respectable president. First of all, that's what it's all about. A senator hopes that the carbon balance project will not take too long, so many of them are now working on. They are already in effect, so it is not as if all of this is in order for us to better define standards and lead to our goal. Some of them are just out of control, and they're doing well, and farmers are on the move, and so on. The biggest change this has become is the thought, both in the administrative system and in the job industry itself. I'm not talking about a single institution, we're discussing a longer-term financial programme. With regard to the whole fishing operation, we're going to submit, hopefully at this council, a bill for changing the fishing department. I've been a spokesman for the fact that we can make good use of ourselves. The technology to reduce the costs and to improve the effectiveness of monitoring. It has been thought that we would need more legal advice to do so. It allows us to play in another way from the same money that has more active control. There are various factors that we can use to meet the budget for any government agency. You're right. There's a senator here. We don't see an increase in funding in direct fishing. You're absolutely right, and I've never concealed it. But although the AVS fund cannot provide support, the funding has not gone. Food Fund was taken over by the AVS Fund, and if the Fishing Room has projects related to food production and etc., it can also collect from this new fund as well as from the rest of the fund, although it would be won differently. [[The president calls.]] But the AVS fund and other funds should not be used for the management of the institutions. [[The president calls.]] There must be someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u155	A respectable president. There is a bill that has been taken into consideration as to the change in fish - control laws in the fishing industry. A report published by the National Review Committee includes: Talk about reacting and maintaining the overall share of individual outputs under law-defined maximum share division. The purpose of their law was that individual companies could not become large enough to prevent natural competition and, as it has been, bring together. The importance of monitoring the implementation of these laws is high, as has been shown in the State Re-examination report on the eating roof and the monitoring of weight and evasion. According to Public Review, many improvements must be made so that the Fishing Room can effectively handle this role. It is, in fact, there. the need to increase the number of surveillance workers, but according to the report, the Agency's surveillance on the resource use of the sea and the integration of the resources sources is weakened and not at the will of the Generals. 11 recommendations for improvement with regard to weight monitoring, rebound and compression were proposed. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on these suggestions and criticism: Have they been met? Has there been enough funding for the use of this surveillance role to be handled by a Fishing Room and for the best possible use of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. When asked if it is the best way to look, I want to answer that I believe that this is true in all the basics. Of course, there are always differences in opinions about surveillance. Not only do some people at times feel too strongly when others claim that their surveillance is not sufficient. It's just the nature of the matter according to the eternal history of surveillance, any name called, whether it's a Fishroom or something else, and there's always some who have something to say about it. With sufficient funds for the Fish Room, it would be easier for the minister of the seminar to say, "No. " But I'm sure I'll take it as much as I can tell you that the Council is bringing more money to this seminary. If available, all ministers will answer such questions with a yes. While the Council sets the box, my instructions to the institutions are always that we follow the framework given to us by the Parliament, the Lawgiver, and we must prioritize within the budget given to us there. Like what? A senator named them we have a report on the Federal Reconnaissance of Fishing Control and has been overwork for quite a while on the basis of the suggestions made there. A key suggestion was to explain the terms "real authority " and" joint " because the fish lab had called for it for over a decade and had never been responded to until now. We're trying to get it into a bill we'll be able to present to the council in the days ahead. You're right, this is one of the main factors for the fishing operation in order to ensure that, according to the surveillance agency, a real monitoring of the standards of the top sector is respected. We've been trying to create the text in such a way that it's not to be monitored any more easily than it's already been.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u157	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The observation of a fish lab with the authority of a linked party is based on today's reporting from the labour authorities. A fishing lab will be checked twice a year. According to a report published by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania, real authority is not being specifically investigated. Official reviews feel that there is a shortage of options and penalties and that the law needs to be revised on the maximum resources department. I agree with this and as necessary to review the maximum share division so that the high degree of compression in the covert of cross-regions and linked parties can be established, such as the highest level. The minister came in. I think it's a good thing that the water mains Department was taking these cases into consideration and setting up a team. A bill is already available to address the comments in the report. I believe there are rich public interests to be effective in monitoring the flow and use of the marine resource, that it is solid and that loyalty is sustainable and responsible for fishing. It is, in fact, disturbing to cheat on weight gain or to suffer a relapse and to have an illegal compression of the resources. That's why I'm stressing that it's important that the Fishing Room be able to perform its surveillance role so that we can respond to the comments of Government Accounting, which I believe are expected in that bill to be the highest level. Minister mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u158	A respectable president. Yes, we have work to do at the billing on the foundation of the work group. We're trying to deal with it as we can best. We put the bill in consultations and found criticism and criticism that we need to try to show up in some way. The bill is on the last record, it's in the lecture, and hopefully it'll come out sooner than later. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the sustainability of the hunts and the whole fishing regime must be in order to ensure the sustainable use of the fish stocks we use. There is now another subject if we want to review all the aspects of that subject because we are less planning on using crops that could be used more and more sustainable than we do today. It's too long to put that discussion on here tonight. I know why. A senator is dying to have that discussion, but I'm thinking about letting her go. But just so they say, too, because of what. A senator mentioned that we should work against illegal compression, so I agree with that. We have an example that the Fishing Room twice made comments and gave a legal delay to cope with them. It's in both the big system and the little system. With regard to the maximum share division and definition of real owners, we have been looking for ways to work with the rules that are like those used in the competition and try to form them in a way that enables us to think that we can work by them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u159	A respectable president. I'd like to ask about the government's policy on hunting costs. This year, 7.5 billion fishing costs are expected, 4.8 billion last year. I asked about the data on the management of MAST and Fish Service and stuff, about our fishing resources, what the total cost was at the National Reservation Guard, etc. That cost is 7 billion per year, or so on, on average. That means we're earning 500 million dollars from the fishing fund. Last year, the loss of 2.2 billion, by extension, was made. In 2015/2020, the mean duration is approximately 2 billion a year, for which the government receives its share while it has been paying interest to 200 billion, i.e. We're about to get some. 1% of the cost of fishing the resource. Then, I think, even a lot of money from a ocean study ship. I'd like to ask a sea chief what policy the government is in regarding the government's share of the government in the resources that we share and take care of, with the council and the government, on behalf of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As a result, the fishing companies in the country did not pay expenses to the State other than fishing fees. When we talk about a loss for the State in this comparison, it pays only about 7.5 billion for the combination, I'm going to point out the problem. A senator claims that the taxing process of the fishing industry in Iceland almost accounts for 80 billion per year, i.e. what this profession draws into the Kingdom box. But for some reason, they always ignore the fact that this industry pays taxes and obligations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u161	Like everybody else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u162	- Like everybody else. But in addition to that, it is taxed on the industry, along with other fees, such as carbon, which weigh particularly heavily on this industry. State policy and government policy on hunting costs is in full effect. The extent to which this expenditure is applied has been established. It's the IRS that figures it out. We've submitted the Hunting Committee, appointed by the three representatives appointed by the Secretary of the Sea Career, which system has been terminated, this has been moved out of the Ministry, and the IRS puts it under the tax conditions of an enterprise that is being performed in this article. There's a 33% tax on the survival of every fishing trip. I think it's high, others think it's too low, and others want it much higher. This led to the decision of the council. It is a tax that goes on the raise of every hunting trip and is the so - called hunting fee, which has been interpreted as the means for drawing the catch to shore. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm just going to reiterate that the employment tax process contributes to all other aspects of the government budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u163	President. We all pay for the combination. We're using roads together. They are being driven by either catch or fish farming products in large trucks through rather rough roads that put them under a lot of stress. Of course, the taxes these companies pay will be generally used for the transport system and the likes of all other taxes. There is then access to the sea source specifically designed for these sources, access to the marine resource. [[Up front.]] What is the price, and what is the result? Let's take it aside. We're all equal in this taxation thing. In fact, the fishing companies have additional sources to cancel. That's an extra present. Let's take all the taxes and money money away because it's equal to everyone, that's just normal. Then there is this special access to a common resource. What is the profit of society in view of the use of that resource? [[The president calls.]] It's about 1% of the total when it all comes down to it. Is that a fair split?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u164	A respectable president. There are some institutions in the government, which serve various occupations, without a special tax placed on the relevant sector to support the management of the source. The institutions that lay. A senator mentioned earlier to serve more people than companies in the fishing field. If a person separates it, it's just the best and the good. But in the foundation, the question is: Should the state pay more than 33% of its results after each fishing trip? Should the State pay a higher price than this 33%? It sounds like a reason. A senator feels the need to raise the percentage. All right. I respect that opinion, but I couldn't agree with it. The income has been calculated according to our best awareness of people and our expenses as well as the tax puts it on its own, the cost of fishing per species is calculated, and the state shepherds by net tone at 33%. Yeah, I hear what you're talking about. A senator says, but the reason why I mentioned the taxation of the seaside was simply that during the discussion, at times the misunderstanding is that fishing costs are the only taxpayer in a fishing road. I know why. A senator knows better, but when we discuss the tax pay of these sectors for the combination, because it gets into it in some way, sometimes, all the pay of the relevant sectors should be accepted into the discussion and, by this, somewhere around 80 billion a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u165	Mr. President. Not many people argue that farming is an important link in our community and the source of precious valuable things. The importance of domestic food production is obvious, but for some reason the system seems to serve the interests of the past rather than the present, that I am not talking about the future. However, we have been able to have a complete public talk, and we have had that many times. It is our responsibility to ensure that they can be taken, and we need to face the fact here that we need to ensure more flexibility in the system at the same time as we face the challenges of climate and environment. We need to establish a real impulse system for agriculture, which contributes to innovation, innovation, and answers to modern requirements of transparency and efficiency. I think it's so important that we make the move so important that farmers get the opportunity to be responsible for their own work, decide for themselves how they make their own production and culture. We must begin to come to a common understanding that this production - producing system of government is a child of its time and that it is about to increase agricultural contributions in terms of green catalyses, green solutions, and innovations in this area. Iceland's farmers have one of the best available terms in OECD, in addition to the very streets where the current funding systems seem to have put the production into and we know. I'd like to use this opportunity here when we discuss a financial programme with related policy-making practices for certain topics, and ask the highest level. Agricultural Minister: What does he see to it that it is possible to improve the quality of farmers? How does he want to secure more efficient systems that serve the interests of farmers, who serve the environment's interests, and especially the interests of consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator mentioned that the agricultural system served the interests of the past. [[Up front.]] - The sponsoric system. Yeah, I'm sure in some way. But when we talk about being trapped in something, we also need to look at factors that are truly successful. We see all kinds of innovations and new wands taking root in agriculture in Iceland. It is widely available in gardening, in many parts of the milk, on the surface of the work of various foods, so it is not all lava frozen and hard in the past. There is extensive healing associated with e.g. Agriculture and tourism and other factors. I will also consider one example that turns toward land use and looks forward to making up decades of debate about the use of earth. It is a project called GroLind that enables us after some year to operate in the land in a very different way. The problem of agriculture is largely attached to the sheep farm, I believe. Revising the last sheep contracts, we made some new adjustments. We tried to adapt the production to domestic needs. We offered to make adjustments for farmers to change their farming habits. And because of what? A senator asks how we can change, I expect it will be done in the work I've started in the development of a new agricultural policy. Similarly, we see a place in the food policy that we have already performed. It's about to change. The next review of the livestock contract is 2023. Before that time, a new agricultural policy will be ready, and it will be based on the emphasis now on changing production patterns, changing land chemistry, climate change, and other factors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. This is how they are stressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u167	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for. That's a nice discussion. Because it's the highest. A minister goes over the good things that are happening in the peasants and agricultures around the country, when it's once that the little wands come because people are creative, because people want to be rescued, and they come up with ideas. That's how we build the system that determines whether these wands become something, and that's where I'm concerned because the present system is directly countering such ideas often and often. But it's good to know that it's the highest. Minister has his finger on his pulse. There's a lot of work going on, they just have to work out, and this change needs to be done. I'd like to discuss the seabed and take the constitution with you because, in my opinion, it has now been found to be the highest resource directives. The prime minister, one of these large princely issues of society, is useless. It's watered out. In each case, the use of common resources is tied to a particular time, except in the fishing field. It is the only rule that replaces this rule. If this proposal becomes legal and confirmed after election, it is clear that there will be no material changes. That's at least I am afraid that this corruption of the government will cause division and division. It is time to sit down at the table and have open conversation about finding surfaces and looking for ways to suppress the suspicions of this article. There is no need to overthrow anything. It can be accessed in another way and in a more objective way. I ask a minister: Can he agree that temporary contracts were a good step in that direction? They may be 25 years old. It's the whole nod, if you want to call it that. This would add to the sense of deforestation. Those treaties that were made would not be benefited at that time. [[The president calls.]] Would that not be a better arrangement for our important business in the fishing field instead of the uncertainty, the publicity, and the cares of the government they live with today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u168	A respectable president. These are large questions that will hardly take two minutes to answer. But I'm just gonna come in to the agriculture first, figure out what to do. Hv. A senator mentioned that farmers in Iceland had the best interest in Europe. This is especially true of sheep farming. They're at the bottom. But the cattlemen are not there; they are very high in this comparison. The primary factor is that the strength is probably lacking in this comparison of sheep farming. I don't know it well enough, but that's how rough it is. As for the newcomer, I'm going to say that the Food Fund has taken up business and has assigned some 60 projects. There's 28 of them in agriculture, new ideas not in agriculture. [[...to big parties in this article.]] [[Up front.]] No, it's very spread and fine healing. Then comes criticism that the big ones are absorbing all of this. The big changes will not always be just a small task. It also takes frequent width, knowledge, money to accomplish things. That's what I'm talking about. A senator brings up a timeline and open conversation, and another is that the heads of the political parties at the council have been in charge for three years, trying to reach this conversation. We're still in that place as hell. A senator mentions that it is not at peace, etc. I don't know, sometimes I feel like people just don't want to be happy. I trust these officers to try to reach some more reasonable conclusion, but they've been sitting over it for three years, I think, trying to make this so-called reconciliation, but it'll never be okay because most people are getting close to it so that if you don't agree with what I suggest, I'm just not happy. Regarding that question as a question. A senator directed to me on temporary negotiations, whether I'm inside, I'm just going to say less. A senator says we were once in a government partnership. There we decided in a government contract that we were going to work on temporary contracts. [[The president calls.]] For various reasons, too far a matter was not reached. But it all says that the Independence Party has always been ready to discuss these things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u169	A respectable president. We're still discussing a financial program. I'd like to ask the highest. Marine and agricultural minister on his judgment of voluntary hand-fishing, whether he agrees that this would be a good view of the future. If we also take the position as it is today, an invitation, and a ban on fishing only during certain days, it is extremely dangerous because it tells us that those who are involved in hand fishing need to follow the weather and the wind, not the days. Then we are disfellowshipped and need to stop it. But wouldn't it be ideal to place increased fishing clearances in free hand fishing and thus promote the small core of the settlements all around the country? I could use some. Does a minister believe that the management of the Habitat Institute is in good shape? During this season, we have repeatedly received reports of offenders in surveillance and need for additional funding. At that time, experienced employees were laid off without the trap of reasons, and this excuses them by words such as efficiency, efficiency. I believe those words are used as an excuse for surgery. I'm asking if the operation is sufficiently funded to monitor the national resources. Is that a good enough system that we have and that works? If not, what must be done? It doesn't have to put these things in order, and especially to help with what I asked about at first, i.e. of free hand fishing and growing the small regional core?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u170	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. When you ask about the free hand fishing, it's a very beautiful idea. I like hand hunting, just so you know, I'm raised to them. I bend myself, however, to the limit of the resource. We are now going to see Iceland's bottom fishing fishing as a whole of about 500,000 tons. It'll be around. We had to limit the application to the resource, including so that you don't go too fast on it. We are now in a position that 98◯ 99% of all the fish drawn to land go to a foreign market, where we are competing with big countries and big corporations. The largest European company in the fishing field does not reach the world's top 30 or 40. They're just small companies here, even though we think they're big. However, the fundamental reason for selling our products is that they are shown by international quality companies. When we seek such a witness, the first question is, How do you direct these fishing? You guys are a self-sustaining fisher? And there's only one rule. If you've got a free offense for any sort of institution, it's a big break in this witness thing. It's just like that, except that there's gonna be some way of having a roof on this parish. We have so far been trying on the coasts. In recent years, we have increased the catch, and we have 11,000 tons in the coastal fishing pool, and there is still a demand for an increase. [[The president calls.]] If we were to give this up, I'd like to hear why. The senator's opinion of the growth or mixing of the application in these materials is based on how he feels it would increase. [[The president calls.]] Can he see how it will change? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u171	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Seafood and agricultural ministers for answers. In terms of free hand fishing, I understand, 80 to 90% into a fish market, where it returns. Although we talk about free hand fishing, we can make certain rules, how many rolls we can have, and what else we already have. These are eco-friendly fishing, and these are, I would say, economic fishing in that they come to these small settlements that need this. All the increases we could get into the bullfish should go to this hunt, and we should start by trying to go that way. I would also like to ask: Do agrienvironmental ministers think we have the potential to have the good greenhouse culture that we could become self-sustained in vegetable culture? Let's just say within the age of four, five, that we could build greenhouses so much that we could be self-sustained? In terms of sheep farmers, I was like a boy in a country, and I always think people are pushing the problems of sheep farmers before them, I don't think anything changes. It is as if it is absolutely hopeless to bring up this farm so that a decent life can be lived by it. You don't understand why this has not been resolved. I remember this as a kid, and the last 50 to 60 years, it always seems to be the same problem as no solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-24-73.u172	A respectable president. Regarding sustainable development, the range of species is always increasing and the demand varies. Most of the time, I think we should be able to do this to ourselves. We have quality, we have energy, we have water, etc. We have knowledge. However, we need imports. In some areas of gardening, we should be able to be sustainable in production. We now have 43% of the domestic consumption in this area, where we are producing ourselves. There's a considerable range there, 57%, that we should try to fill up in the field of vegetable production. In terms of practicality and the increase in coastal fishing, as well as by hand fishing, the small settlements: Has land built up in recent years since we created this extra pot? No, she hasn't. We can only see that the current leads south, despite what we're doing. I have said that the best support for the settlement is not necessarily in the field of raising sheep or setting up more fishing grounds. It's a lot more about transportation and education, research, etc, that we need to provide the population of the country with access. But I am the first man to address the fact that we are to protect these settlements. The sheep farm is in trouble and has been in trouble for a long time. There's been an explosion in this between 2015 and 2016. That's when it went very bad. [[The president calls.]] The main problem lies in producing more meat than is demand within the country. Today, the consumption has dropped to 1,3 blisters, a significant reduction in a wonder - free period of time, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]]
