ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u1	The President is pleased to report, in addition to the changes being made in the treatment programs here yesterday, that the General Generals can again be opened. At first, though, only ten can be received at a time, and all who sit on the coats must wear masks. The General Assembly has been closed since March 12 of the past year for inevitable reasons, and at the same time visitors have not been allowed to arrive in the World Assembly Hall, as is known regarding the outbreak of crown virus, so this is a delightful development of events that can now be explained.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u2	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress. Consider it approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u3	President. Last week, representatives of the Democratic and Human Rights Office from the OSE arrived with a variety of people in this country to appreciate the need for a hearing of elections in the September General election. I personally had two meetings. There I expressed concern about the media status, especially in view of what we knew, how Samherji has been working against Helgi Seljan for news of the company's activities in Namiba. Such actions can easily influence the criticism of the media, which again adversely affects our prospects for free and fair elections. During the days since the ESE representatives were found with us, the situation has changed dramatically. The hour and the nucleus have revealed that the alienation of the Samaritan was much more organized and more profound. Instead of merely against individual journalists and the media, the so - called Partisans Department of the Samhera tried to influence the choice of the chairman of the Journalists and the term of the Independence Party. This is a serious situation. In elections that will include... The nation's holding on to the fishing resources is extremely dangerous that a high-priority company thus opposes the entire operation of democracy, employing the profits of this same resource in campaigns against political opponents, public discussions, and free reporting. As a result, the Congress of Pirata has sent a formal address to SE, where we call for the Agency to organise election management in the fall. I expect the president and other members of this council to join in our favor, as is the advantage of all of us, both inside and outside, that the elections will not be looked forward to by the barbaric interference of the people we have come to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u4	Mr. President. The ocean is a new race in Iceland. There are 30 or 40 wind - power options to consider and a great many foreign people. These are large windmills in buttons, as one knows, 100 to 200 MW each. The mean of all of them, if calculated, is 4,55,000 MW, i.e. twice as much as activated power now. The benefits and failures of wind power are many, and I'm not going to trace them, but I'm going to remind you that all of this is not to be forgotten by a carbon footprint from a wind source. I'm going to focus on four things: that wind power certainly comes into play with earth's heats and hydropowers. The fact that energy efficiency is always in accordance with each energy demand and sustainable resource use. To fuel a lull of a uniform order and complete approach, it is essential for sustainable energy efficiency and energy production. Fourth and final, there is a regional structure, i.e. make it clear that everything is under control. There are two counts of Congress, church resolution proposals on regional planning and changes in the laws on the framework. In the regional organization it is not the home of wind power plants in 31% of the country. They come to account on 53% of the country, which is then under the framework and secretary itself. The custody of rural society and other governments is 16%. They're called green areas. I'm going to encourage the Allied to make sure the wind race doesn't end up in a swamp. Let's honor the old Trabant word, our witty speeches.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u5	A respectable president. The woman who stands here has recommended the trial of nearly 30 members of Congress during the Council of the United States last winter. Almost all the cases depend on improving the interests of those in poor society. One of those cases is e.g. - now I just ask you, my fellow Americans and noble President what in the world can stop the poor from trying to work a job market if they have health and ability? What in the world can prevent an elderly person who wants to continue working on such things and such that it is not of any benefit but when he goes home and sits there waiting for his final ride. It has been shown, and everyone knows what they want, that there is nothing but the benefit of allowing people to save themselves instead of being conscious and willing by the government to continue these people in vast poverty. It's a national tragedy to tax poverty. The people have a class, e.g. measured for a bill of about 350,000 bucks. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy. How's it treated? Those who have rarely had to dip their hand in cold water and do not know what it is to fight in poverty do not seem to be able to feel the feelings of those whose hearts are in dire straits. Those same high officials of the nation were amazed at the outcome of all these spiritual afflictions. Why do we feel so bad? Let us not forget that this situation, this oppression, bites the poorest people in the land, and bites first and last of all on the children to inhabit the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u6	A respectable president. The growth of employment and valuables in our country is now more urgent than ever before. Business organizations, industrial organizations, the World Bank Fund, and other experts have expressed the importance of increasing the number of eggs, increasing the support of the welfare community, with increasing employment and valuables. We will not be able to do better in the groups of languages called for more funding in our welfare community unless there is an increasing wealth and more opportunities for employment in a greater variety of areas than there is right now. In fact, some groups want to solve the problem with increasing debt, as the Conspiracy prefers to speak without talking about any permanent solutions to others. We hear of land induction, which was only received this week, talking about a lot of conversations with the people; that there is a lot of foreign people coming and building up here, talking with the company about all kinds of innovations in Icelandic employment. These include hydrogen production, the future energy source in airplanes, ships, and larger vehicles. These are the data industry, which will be able to launch with great force when the next year a new sea cable for data transfer is introduced between Iceland and Europe. These include battery producers, which produce batteries in cars and other vehicles. The key to this is electrical energy, increased electricity. We will not be able to answer these queries unless further activation of our natural resources is available. In effect, the General gave up on these matters. There is now a World Congress Frame program that has not been taken care of for many years, far beyond the time limit required by law. It's heading for another trip. It's a very serious, respectable president, when this is the case. It's a big responsibility for the Generals here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u7	A respectable president. Iceland is a free country, a country where people are free to do what they want as long as they don't harm others. In Iceland, freedom of speech, freedom of thought, and freedom of worship are high, and we must protect this freedom. The public must come down with mildness and with equal guidance. The media should be used and maintained. I want them to tell the truth. They should be critical, and they should be open to criticism. Businesses have to abide by the same rules. All companies who intend to have a future need to consider their community responsibilities. They need to shoulder responsibility and have a positive influence on their environment. Support to sports and culture is good and important, but that is not enough. Companies who take community responsibility seriously respect democracy and do not oppose it. A company that does not focus on social responsibilities does not have a future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u8	V.E.G. President. All of us want to live in security, not just our own security, but our immediate safety. In fact, nothing really matters to us more than that. All who have experienced insecurity at difficult times understand this best. Despite the small numbers of the Icelandic people, the country is large. We must have spread, a powerful safety response throughout the country. Sometimes it is said that not all the eggs in the same basket are good. That is why I have recently discussed a rescue center in Akureyri and there will be a helicopter on the National Guard. Having all rescue helicopters located in Reykjavík reduces the ability and ability to react, especially to North and Eastern and marine areas, where the weather may be troublesome. Seafarers in the north and east live in less security today than do others when the helicopter rescue team is only on the southwestern corner of the country. The solution is to locate a helicopter or a part of the DLA in Akureyri, near the geographic center of the country. There's an obvious connection to a medical flight in Akureyri. It has experience that enables the Air Force to produce parts of a helicopter crew. The best chance for rescue cables to be built along with the strong northern juncture at Eyjafjörður. There are structures necessary for such activities. The rescue mall should build at the same time the hospital center with planes in Akureyri and doctors from the Akureyri Hospital and the National Institute of Health when needed. Such rescue cables are quite consistent with plans for development and the use of long - term health care at the hospital, and they match the training of health care professionals in Iceland who are fired at the Akureyri Hospital for the Hospital. At the airport, there is also Air Forces, and there is a first-class helicopter maintenance service. V.E.G. President. The case is set.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u9	Mr. President. This is a new birth week. There are many exciting events all over the country this week. For example, one of the common aims of land parishion projects is full production, and I feel that there is a tremendous opportunity in this sector, both in agriculture, in fishing roads, and in vegetable production. The number of wands around the country that have used the government's support network with rural and business institutions has grown up. Neonatal contributions have been up to a very high pre-election period of up to 70%. Some newcomers, such as the Food Fund and the Krista, are a fine example of supplementary funds in the existing environment. If you visit the website The New Creation Week, you can see that there's a lot of growth in all kinds of innovations in the country. I present here an example: Sustainable marine settlements ▪ the importance of innovation in energy exchange. High - tech, food production, energy. It's a new creation in a man-made operation. How can health care provide patient care? A guide to key information about transportation, communication and geographicisation. Women of innovation. All these exciting events are available. Several days ago, there is an open textile center in the United States, which is part of the textile center of Iceland. Part of the QA project is carried out in various restaurants, including the Marine City in Hampstanga. All of these are interesting events. I feel that participation in all kinds of innovation has increased in recent years. We need to be ready to create new jobs when other older ones die because of technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u10	A respectable president. In these words, the Council of the Institutes of the Aegean Community of Iceland is the head of Worldmet in the matter. The damages and chain-mortality in the social security system are ludicrously high and beyond all boundaries. Social benefits, child damages, mortgages, and special housing benefits are covered by the functional impairments. This failing monster, which is nothing more than economic violence, causes a large number of sick people, older citizens, and unemployed to find themselves in very poor straits. Governments by government have built up this terrible system and maintained it with increased impairments, put in crowns here, and where they have turned only pennies into people's pockets if they are so scrawny. Often, capitalization in one part of the system does not provide a cent to the needy. Rather, it causes the loss of a pension that is already low when it is desperate to try to outdo it, let alone lead a decent life. 140000 k. the cost of living together is the two microorganisms. 340.000 k. is a minimal advance, said by the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, which a couple may need to make in the future, a 10,000 - year - old U.S.A. below the minimum wage. The Council is now the first complete body member to live in this system, and it knows exactly how miserable it is to try to make ends meet in it. 5 billion each year in increasing numbers and, therefore, 20 billion each year in the administration of a government that has increased. 109,000 bucks. This should be today updating to $250,000. 100,000 bucks. an increase in a currency market in a pension fund should also be a small matter. There are hidden diseases of the state that include e.g. for automobiles that have not increased for five or six years. There's a left-of-the-line decline of 80 in 100%. Those who earn a billion dollars, would they accept just having 260 million left?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u11	V.E.G. President. In the Korean epidemic, the trend in the media around the world has been to describe the situation in a way that is successful in the battle at home, while everything is in cold coal elsewhere. According to a professor of political science, this shows how the world scene is shaken when each society is forced to close down almost completely, as the epidemic did. ▪ When less people are moving and the world closes like this, the picture of what is happening elsewhere is so wrong. We can be told about a situation that we do not personally experience and that will not give us the opportunity to experience, as the professor says. There are now some things in the world that need to be looked at now when the health problems begin to be lifted. And all these conditions that are going to last a long time and shut us down inside their own society, and we can't get in between, it creates this kind of misogynity that can lead to suspicion and hostility. [...] The real danger is that we can't get back the society that was here before. We cannot get the freedom, freedom and rights that we had before the epidemic. Has called for even more credit [...] V.E.G. President. What about the news on Fonón of real politics? Will they finish, and will they be stopped? The government has taken care of the refuge that we have been with the highly successful government authorities. Little that none of political opinions can get into the news, but now in the process of election, I have the hope that the politics and the language of all the parties will receive the attention they deserve for the coming elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u12	Mr. President. I'm just gonna keep talking politics in general. Yesterday we were talking about trust in politics and politics. There I discussed the need for those in authority to speak clearly and to explain their actions, which at times work in the eyes of ordinary people, I mentioned some examples. Without question, if governments were to do this, they would increase their confidence in politics. I'm going to add a little bit now and talk about political contradictions that need to be explained to people, e.g. left people's walking on environmental and climate. It has marked their progress in recent years to appease virtually everything that can be seen and now to appease the whole of Iceland's highlands. Of course, we should be careful about our individual nature. Is it not, then, a small contradiction in thus preventing us from making wise use of our green and renewable energy, which is the world's biggest contribution to climate? By resisting further use of green energy in this country, we are increasing the problem worldwide. At times, it is like one universal textbook, but at times it does not fade or forget to face that fact. This indirectly contributes to increased pollution in other parts of the world, thus increasing the climate problem. How does it rhyme with everyone taking responsibility for the climate problem? Wouldn't you have to explain this to people better? Now we've just agreed to a law to support the private media that in itself is the best case if not for the fact that another and a much larger problem is left where the State Radio operation is. This looks like some kind of emergency aid, completely without even attacking the real cause of the problem. At the same time that we use the private media in the state's arms, taxpayers are yearly obliged to pay 5 billion to the State Radio, which is like a huge nightfall in the media market and also allowed to compete with the private media at a commercial market. Wouldn't you have to explain this to people better?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u13	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of the year, the population of Icelanders was 368,792. Surpee trend is one way; most of them find their way to the southwest corner. Most Icelanders prefer to live in urban areas. Iceland is a small country on every international scale. Iceland is a small nation, population distribution is uneven, and the land is geographically isolated. At the same time, there will be a convergence among the people. There's a lack of competition here. There's a single layer of city patterns and there's gonna be a self-sustaining cycle. An impressive, attractive capital city is an important link in the regional policy. Twenty - three of the 63 members of our congregation are outside the capital area, four in ten, and some feel that it is enough. President. I'd like to call the council and the executives to one small thing that we should adopt and strengthen and strengthen the country's settlement. At the annual meeting of the Federal Society in the Northern Pacific, there was talk of the distribution of power compared to the estate. The Parliament agreed to a suggestion that when the State appoints governments, councils, and committees and groups, a third of the committees should be placed outside the capital area. By doing so, we contribute to the distribution of power. Therefore, I would like to challenge members of the council to consider and minister with courage and to respond in a consistent manner. Recently a date was presented for a 15 - year dating plan and a 5 - year plan of action, or a local white book. I'd like to encourage all the economists to send a review, but due deadline is only on May 31st. And that time is very short for such a big deal. Finally, I'm going to repeat here according to Þormóður Jónsson Husvíing: Building Policy Lifts Land ... ifit'sbeautiful. She is like the Holy Ghost. nobody's seen her. I'd like to use these last seconds to challenge the economist of the Generals, who has sat here since 1983, to respond to that statement and answer to us members of the council, to this fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u14	The president knows the facts, but he is not sure that they will be reformed with further favors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u15	V.E.G. President. At this morning's welfare committee meeting, I produced the following reviews, but with me on the report is a smaller section of the Committee: we believe it is preprogrammed that a health minister has decided to move to screening for breast and cervical cancer within the medical system without conjuring the service. Now, five months after transfer, there is still complete uncertainty about the outcomes, how information is presented, and how the screening registry should work. In particular, we regret that the health authorities have ignored the opinion of many professionals by transporting all the cervical samples to the laboratory at the HVidovre Hospital in Denmark. That decision was made contrary to the opinion and advice of the official parties, the greater part of the Presidency and screening Council, committees and professionals, including the position of surgeons. The report by Icelandic gynecologists and Biologists has noted that cervical specimens will be best paid on the land, and the quality and safety of such tests will be guaranteed here. Good knowledge is there as well as an essential tool. They have also noted that due to women's medical history, it is important that doctors handling a sample can communicate directly with an investigator. We urge the health minister to respond immediately so as not to be seriously damaged, and to transfer cervical samples back to Iceland. We review the importance of the immediate decision of an independent case report. It must ensure the health of women for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u16	A respectable president. In the present discussion, the power of the great deed, and the way it is used, politics need to be absolutely clear about their role; to promote and defend public interests. In this context, it has to be my knowledge to consult the resource directives proposed by the board. There you will hear a question about the nature of this resource directive. The Constitution lists the principles of society that all other laws must pass. That's why it's important to frame principles on how to use resources in a constitution, and that's a good thing. However, the prime minister's bill refers to national property without mention that the right to use this national property is temporary and to the right has to pay a natural fee. Therefore, the General Assembly agreed to a proposal made by the prime minister will lead to the continuation of the situation for the general public as well as the change for the large production. In order to give the word national property a real meaning must ensure that the use of our common resource is made by temporary agreements, and it also counts that a normal payment for this use is required. Thus we protect our sea resources, and that does not matter who is in power at any given time. This is the issue of political importance. The word national property was given with this real meaning. I ask, "Why is it the decision of the three governments to make a provision so open? " Why is the provision of prime minister silent about the major political issues? Perhaps the strongest message in this bill is in what is not said, this silence about the things that would ensure public interest. Is this, then, perhaps, the national property of the few?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u17	Mr. President. Later today, we will discuss the budget of the government. First last night, the majority of them offered a final opinion on the committee. In view of the fact that the next five years' budget is one of the larger issues involved in the Parliament, it is not a good work ethic on the part of the body. The other has become the standard practice of ignoring all the changes made in the memory of the part. In that way, the discussion of the day becomes virtual. It's not meant to make any changes. On the contrary, the government of Katrín's daughter Jakobsdóttir, the government of the government, has been directly promoted by the Council and by consultations in that area. All three governments have declared that their first election choice is to continue their present government cooperation, and financial programs must be examined in that light. It contains a declaration of the rest. I'm here to mention two points of government ambition. The plan is expected to support unemployment in the range of 4◯5%. The support of innovation will be greatly reduced. The plan shows that so - called restitution measures need to be used over a period of up to tens of billions. Of course, everyone knows that this is a cut-off or a tax rise unless it is both. But the government keeps quiet as it goes. This may be because she does not know, or she does not have the courage to share it with others. The truth is, I don't know which is worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u18	Mr. President. 900 children in Pediatrics, 150 kids on the waiting list, eight months waiting time. 340 children in the waiting list of state analyses and counselling centres treating children with severe developmental impairment 24 months waiting time. 600 children on a waiting list on the third key agency to treat sick children. Here we are talking about a development and behavioral station treating children with neurological disorders, where it may take up to 18 months, an eternity for a child in difficulty. 9% of young people in Iceland have tried suicide. This indicates that in 22 schoolchildren, two students attempted suicide. A Dr. BULG medical doctor recently said that high suicide rates in children are not random but long - term consequences of saving the system's prevention and failure. Mr. President. It's a bad score for the system. All these institutions are dealing with a lack of money, but they are not as expensive as they are. The cost of nursing every child in Bugl's bed department is similar to that of running high school on Lake Saturday. The analysis center costs less than one tenth of the official subsidies for cattle breeding, and the development and behavior center costs less than Iceland's soil readings. Is that the best we can do? These are children with whom society and the State need to care much better, to extend a helping hand, than to do it seriously. Children waiting are a disaster and a disgrace to all of us. We're supposed to put the mental health of children in first place, Mr. President. Can we all agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u19	Mr. President. We here vote for a bill that has had a bit of a storming life, interesting material that changes to certain aspects of the current air travel laws. In fact, it is considered whether the legal process is critical of the current situation. However, all of this was made clear in the review of the Committee that there is no disagreement on the importance of ensuring disease prevention where possible. We in the United States have been focused, short - range suggestions on this subject but have made comments on methods and approachs. Our emphasis is clear. All steps taken in important activities for individuals and families and to limit their freedom to action, travel and communication must have a strong legal basis to maintain the Regulation. The result is satisfactory, and the United States Group supports the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the senator who spoke before me. It is important that sources placed in the hands of the European Commission and affected by the rights of people are as narrow as possible to achieve the required purpose. When the bill originally came from an environment and transport committee it was way too wide. Sadly, much effort was needed to turn off the bill over too large a group of people, but luckily it was achieved. Today, things are still being narrowed down so that they will be more irritable by shortening their time span. But much I wish, Mr. President, at these unprecedented times, the council would have shown the unprecedented conduct of taking more reason, listening and responding more quickly so that we had not had to fight for the changes we have seen on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u21	A respectable president. I would like to, in a similar way, to think yesterday that the changes made on the bill in the activities of the Committee are excellent. I'd like to commend you. While we disagree with the fact that the motive of the law is no longer present, a prominent author, Ari Trali Guðmundsson, for his work in this case. But just as yesterday's Council of the Central Party will sit next to the vote, in view of the fact that the need for legislation is no longer there. I still thank the Committee for good work and good work. paritaprevir Not only does Trausti Guðmundsson beat you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u22	V.E.G. President. We're here to provide a bio-sized bill in a fish farm taken off yesterday, but it's back in votes. We in the central category believe that it would have been an opportunity for a discussion on the bill to help correct certain disorders that we believe have been shown to have been involved in the application procedure on the part of fish farms. It is unclear why the law did not go into effect until four weeks after its approval in the spring of 2019. A recent decision - making committee raises questions about performance at the scene. The majority of the results were not doing anything wrong in this regard. Despite our dissatisfaction with this outcome, we can see only how we can assist in this matter as far as it can reach other materials. But we will take advantage of opportunities to take matters back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u23	Mr. President. We in the United States today are going to be yellow on this matter. There is no one policy for fish farming as a industry in Iceland for the future. There are all kinds of policies where fish farming happens, but there are no policies for fish farming in particular. We have to have good policy on how the industry is going to grow. Let us stop responding and be controlled on the basis of this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u24	A respectable president. We are about to vote for a very good case in terms of the use of special property savings. There has been a situation where a person who has fallen out of a job market cannot benefit from this because he will not receive a monthly special possession. Silencing and unemployed are in that position. These are very few individuals, and if they want to do this, they should be allowed to do so, especially since this figure was estimated to be 65◯88 billion, only 35 billion. So we should not hit the fingers of anyone who wants to take advantage of this. It's not a big group, it's not even a high figure. I'd like the case settled on a committee by the 3rd. and voted for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u25	Mr. President. Even if I don't lie against the bill, it's a plan that's made up of a lot of people and that's very useful in certain cases, there's an ongoing problem here. A special pension savings was created so that people could build a special pension. Since then, four, five, even six different options have been made to allow people to take out this money they already have and use it for housing, so that they can pay rents during Covid's time and so on. I think it is time for us to rethink our special pension system and at any rate try to fix it and make it look like it might be a pension theft rather than a crutch for the housing system and because everything is somehow turning upside down in the economy. So today I'm going to sit by, not because I'm directly opposed to the plan, but because I think we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u26	A meeting is that members of the panels, including an officer in the hearing, have up to 45 minutes in their storylines in today's discussion. Also, the president has agreed to clear up counterclockwise, so after the introduction of a major financial committee body, each member of the board can reach and be able to resist and then have one minute at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u27	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee's members a greater proportion of the budget of proposals for the interpretation of financial programmes for the period 2022◯226. The case was referred to on March 25, and the proposal was based on Article 5. it's a government law. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that a minister should submit the proposal to the Council no later than April 1 of each year to the next five years, as this is done. Rather, there were fewer reports on the matter now than often before the review of the parties who gave the case review and meeting of the committee. It should be noted that in the case of a financial programme, the Commission specifically covered the funding and extension of the global government's activities for the pandemic, and then the Committee called for a response to a report on the cost of nursing services, which led to its meeting with a health - care representative and a community member of the welfare department. During the last year of the pandemic, the timing of financial programs grew substantially, providing financial support for the year 2021/2025. In view of the great uncertainty that existed, we were postponed. That plan was submitted in the fall and finally adopted in December. Such a strategy is based on a revised policy since the fall of the Council of September. In addition to a revised policy, the General Assembly specifically agreed to deviate from a three - year budget set by the three additional laws on public finance under Article 10. We are authorized to revise policy. As usual, the proposal for public members in total, exchanges in Part A and Part A of your community, and public enterprises, total holdings of state funds, framed budgets and state funds. Normally, the first chapter of a series of articles on policy schemes and individual causes is underlined. In view of the short time since the agreed programme for the 2021/2025, policy-making of the strategy will be validated and emphasised, in principle, unchanged from that approval. Therefore, no special consideration of the topic areas is included in the report. Rather, it is referred to the strategy adopted in December. This revised plan is updated based on the latest economic standards of the Hague and is basically about the economic roles of the government and the economic wind. On the income side, a new schedule will be updated according to the changes made in a new national economy, as well as a remuneration gate where small changes will occur in budgetary areas of burning. The financial programme that we agreed on in December, last year's funding, the budgets of that year, and this revised plan highlights the need for major response and pandemic action. The trust in economic and financial strength of the government has indeed laid the groundwork for a powerful and targeted response to the pandemic. Increased economic growth has been used to strengthen public service, pay off debt, and build social and material infrastructure. The government has since 2017, for the duration of this programme, substantially increased the expenditures to nearly all causes and adds to the significant extent of the economic measures for Covid-19 by 2020 and 2021. Total resources in 2017 were 897 billion, with a total of 1,202 billion dollars in the year 2020. in the same price. The increase is about 305 billion. or 34%. Total expenditure under budget 2021 decreases slightly from 2020 to 1,182 billion dollars. and explains this reduction mainly by this year's lower unemployment programme compared to 2020. A third of the increase is explained by the pandemic counter measures, or more than 200 billion years. for 2020 and 2021. The overall benefits are greatly increased, therefore, during the two years to deal with the epidemic, but in the ongoing programme period under which the effects of Covid-19 decline and the costs of the direct-related epidemic fall, there is a need to consider stopping the debt and sustainable financial resources. The majority of these developments are drawn up in the form of an opinion, and this gives an excellent picture of how the strength of public funds and the policy of the government is reflected in this trend and includes. in sticking to policy and method of building. Official services and transfer systems are intact at the same time as specific support has been directed to the households and companies most affected by the pandemic. The five - year schedule is covered, and overall there are not much changes over that period. The majority of them consider it important to draw up emphasis on budgets in the past few years, thus providing an underlying budget and the development of budgets for the 2017 sector and out of the programme so that the scope and impact of Covid actions can be seen and, like, gradually, reduce the specific budgets generated by the outbreak during the period of the programme. This trend is presented in a controlled table in a committee list. It is estimated that stratospheric expenses increase the absolute value of about 243 billion dollars. During this period and the total increase in the schedule period of less than 41 billion k, i.e. 2,2252,226. As a result, temporary documents are expected to collapse. You will be greatly improved in financial reserves and other changes as follows are associated with algorithms where e.g. Realism is expected in excess of salary and prices. The largest increase is seen in a general reserve of 27.8 billion k., which is a large increase, 70% of the total increase in all causes during this period, and above the standard for public finance that the reserve is 1% of the successful budget. As the planned period progresses further, there will be more uncertainty about the development of costs, and therefore, more space is expected to be taken to manage as changes in development are expected not to inhibit the necessary reactions. It will also be considered that as the time passes, certain investment projects will be completed and a decision has not been made to engage in other projects instead of them. However, it is important to maintain an investment level and to keep investments at a low level, it is expected that investment levels will continue at about 2.2% of GDP. The next largest road to the increase in social security, 12 billion bucks, due to the material of the elderly and 8.8 billion dollars. Because of the disability and speech of disabled people. In both cases an absolute increase is expected as a result of an increase in the period between 10 and 122%. Next, contributions to hospital services increase by 7.1 billion and to non- Hospital Health Services by 5 billion dollars. and reflects it the focus of the government on real - life growths for the health system, as well as for increasing power in the implementation of a new Hospital. In contrast to these increases, the reduction in other topic areas, which is most commonly explained by the decline of temporary budgeting, mainly due to Covid-19 measures. Most of it lowers the subject range of innovations or about 10 billion dollars. This is explained by the reduction of temporary increases in research and development costs in 2020, while a temporary increase in research funds and technology funds falls in 2024. These sources were part of the government's budget and building campaign 2021 52023 and fall down after that time. The most important reduction of transport contributions, or by 9 billion dollars, is most clearly defined by the end of projects in investments and building initiatives. This reduces contributions to nursing and rehabilitation services by 2.7 billion. which is clearly explained by the completion of the intensive work of a nursing facility. Resources for the marine environment reduces 2.1 billion dollars. and is explained by the completed design of a ocean study ship in 2022. The next reduction is seen in cultural, art, sports, and youth. The decline is largely explained by the fact that a number of projects related to investments and building initiatives 2021/2023 end over the period. In addition, temporary donations will be completed in a children's culture fund and because of a grammatical project. House support falls by 1.9 billion dollars. as a temporary rise in the growth of stocks to the general population falls in 2023. For more than a year now, a worldwide epidemic has had tremendous and inhibitory effects on daily life. Necessary treatments have affected the economy, the job life, and the home, their income supply, and at the same time exerted a major influence on public finances. The subject has been centered on the best way to get out of the unexpected pandemic crisis. To this end, public funds have been targeted to meet the economy with force and to ensure economic resistance - these are measures for protection, defense, and procrastination. The criteria that have been guided were made clear in the opinion of a greater part of the legal committee due to the payment of budgeting of the 2021-2025 budget in December. For a review, these are: 1st A blowout in the power of success in terms of government. The treasure was strong and was able to handle a handsome task. 2. Emphasis on innovation and infrastructure. New creations, research, development, and investment projects, infrastructure, and infrastructure have increased significantly. 3. We'll take it easy on people and companies. Investment and prerogatives of investments. I want to stop at that point and review financial advice's comments in this regard, and we need to do better there. We need to appreciate very much money - making investments when setting priorities, and that is where we can do better, truly. However, when the government introduced a synopsis proposal at the beginning of Covid to 18 billion in investments, the emphasis was on what could get started first and create employment. 4. A debt stopped during the scheduled period. It is our responsibility to look to the long-term sustainability of the state's budget. These criteria are crystals in the economic policy of the past 15 months, consisting of three major factors: automatic fluctuation is fully active, resorting to extensive counter-regional measures and the structure of the well - being and continuing to build up. We've talked a lot about automatic fluctuation. Regarding the systems we have, the tax system, and the improvement system, it can be said that when the response automatically comes through it, it comes in a rapid, good condition, and can be said in a normal reaction to the economic rhythm. Thus, government funds play a role with expenses and tax policy as the result becomes more efficient. Allowing this built-in response to be fully effective is that taxes decline without response and the cost of transfer is raised primarily by unemployment. This is not the time when taxes have been taken for tax gains or economic gains on the expense side, on the contrary. Then there was a very good tax reduction in the biography agreements as well as in terms of improvements in unemployment and a longer income cut-off period, as well as child benefits to jobseekers, which have been added and no tax gains and economic gains have been added to the counterimprovement. It is estimated that in 2020, the fluctuate balance leading to a lower rate of gross domestic product has received about 3.1% of GDP and will be about 3.7% of gross domestic product 2021. Thus, a total of 208 billion dollars is estimated to be a fluctuate. for these years. During the first year of this programme, it is expected that fluctuation equations will continue to be allowed to work fully in 2022, while it is estimated that in the period of 2023/2025, specific measures will be required to ensure discontinuation as a proportion of gross domestic product at the last 2025. This is in accordance with the policies set out in up-to-date economic policy and financial programmes, that we can restore financial regulations by 2026. It is vital, however, that we look forward to only growing out of this crisis. This will be a balance art. This has turned out to be better last year than expected, and the amount of these requisite measures, which are then called on the budget or income gate, has decreased only about a quarter. We need to evaluate this level of hand by the way wind forth and the extent of action will depend on economic development and must be considered in line with the economic progress, the overall demand for the economy, the level of employment, inflation and economic growth. This is the key to the future balance art, a respectable president. In order to stop debt collections and return to their former financial resources, however, it is considered necessary to take positive action from 2020 to 2025 C.E. They'll do anything. In the schedule, they are set up to match the income and the remuneration sides. The result of the year 2020, as I said, is better than predicted in a prior financial budget, and the need for these measures has been reduced by nearly a quarter of a billion dollars. If a brighter economic trend becomes a reality, then the need for invasive measures is further reduced from 34 billion to 12 billion on the basis of a core picture. every year. Thus, it is important to work hard to follow the policy established by the government in the resistance of the economy. The Covid Cave is so great that governments, in turn, have taken large protest measures. The scope of these measures has been thoroughly explained in connection with five additional funding in the past year. They will also be presented in the budget of 2021/225, as well as in the summary of this strategy's report. By the end of April the government announced additional operations this year, either for the extension or for the complete development of a new plan. Among them is a special 30,000 k. children's improvement to those receiving income-related child reforms, new travel, longer term assessment of property savings, prolongation and dilation of contractures and lock-ups, parallels of supportive loans, pay to long-term non-employment, and increased donations to mental health of children and young people. Then, like last summer's summer, we will be offering summer loans for students for the school year 2020,2021. The budget side of the state's budget, except for a total of 186 billion dollars. There are also some actions on the income side of the state fund, with the highest interest in reimbursement of cost taxes for performance. Total but 2020 and 2021 billion, respectively. With regard to the estimated lack of response, the current estimate is that there will be no use to the extent expected. This section provides a more precise overview of these measures. In addition, actions that do not directly affect the government funds, such as the state responsibility for Icellands, bridge loans, and support loans. In fact, sources of special investments, which are part of a fight for the epidemic, enter budgets for 2021. Last year, the campaign began and lasted until 2025. Its disintegration in six main categories is listed in a table of 34 billion regularity, research and innovation in 17 billion U.S., new buildings, reforms and maintenance of 43 billion U.S., Digital Iceland 12 billion dollars, energy exchange and green solutions of 9 billion and other services 4 billion. Thus, there are a total of 119 billion who enter into this total investment campaign in the government. This is an important part of a pandemic response, and its effects are believed to be stronger than to make other budgets or remunerations in the form of tax doctors. Investment builds up production loss and increases production capacity. It is clear the objective of the government from the beginning of the pandemic to soften the swing with an increase in investment, to create employment, and even more to strengthen infrastructure and increase production capacity and production in longer periods. How important it is, then, that the level of investment does not decrease as the economy relaxes. However, it is assumed that this relaxation has gone 2023. Although there has been some discussion of the need to do so, it is likely that it will be a little too early and difficult to evaluate. There are a number of factors we need to look at for such food. Some people are unfashionable, but I intend to specify here the importance of tourism, how the crisis affects the economy, the part of the country, rural society, and home. They need to examine and evaluate the interaction between disease prevention and economic conditions. Research has shown that economic cost - free measures may be temporary, even in a short period of time. These options are discussed in financial and economic labour reports. Several questions remain when it comes to the cost-and-improvement analysis of environmental protection and interaction at the level of economic action. I think it may be said, though, that the spread of the virus has been successfully controlled by efforts to protect the lives and health of people who have been and must always be top priority. When considering the scope and impact of action, it is reasonable to consider how other nations have responded. In these areas the assessment and the following events of international legislation, such as the International Cash Fund and the Economic and Development Organization, OECD, can be considered. Such assessments provide some picture of the magnitude and impact of action, but we need to look to the factors that support the longer - term growth potential of the economy, where the project ahead of the challenge is growing out of the depression and thus deal with the collection and prevent long - term lack of work. I have heard this view in terms of economic ideas that once we relax, we look forward to a higher level of unemployment than we have ever been used to. I want to deny, though, that there is some politician who is heading for that number. It must be anyone's job of managing this figure and preventing long - term incorruption. That is the task ahead of us, and it must be the biggest project ahead of us. The Economic and Development Agency regularly provides guidelines for its member countries on measures to promote sustainable growth and highlights action on competitiveness, education and ability, environment and workforce, and effectiveness in this country, while assessing that Iceland works well in international comparison. I'm just going to refer here in box 5 to the report on this financial agenda, and there are many very good boxes here in terms of economic coverage. In general, according to the World Bank of Remuneration, there has been a reduction in economic losses due to Covid-19 and a reduction in unemployment from what might otherwise have occurred. At the same time, though, such expenditures as well as a great loss of income have increased the balance and debt of the government. THE AGS points to a number of factors to be taken into account in regard to counterweight measures. Compared to the northern countries, we have used more direct measures than the rest of the countries, or 9.2% of GDP. I'll take Dani for example. They have used, on a far greater scale, indirect support through loans and responsibilities than this has been done. Then, in general, about the context of sustainable state funds. I'd like to refer to a very comprehensive financial Council on sustainable financial resources and what factors are involved in it, such as interest levels. This is indicated by the opinion of the Council on the strategy that we agreed on in December. In general, risks include high and increased debt collections. It is unmistakably true that increased financial slackness is inevitable, andliding and borrowing are necessary. In the course of the following, we need to weigh that it is not wise to reduce support measures early, but it should be avoided to avoid being over-enforced when the outbreak takes effect. They're going to put a lot of pressure on this, a respectable president, to the interests of the next semester. However, it is important that the State Policy and the money policy and the labour market workforce work on the project ahead of maintaining stability and securing sustainable growth. Here, money policy has been used systematically as a result of government action in financial policy. To reduce the major growth of Iceland's Federal Bank, which has had a profound positive effect on the struggle to cope with the economic crisis. In Iceland, however, the main growth has been reduced from 2.75% to 0.75 percent, which is much higher than in other countries, where there was a greater limit of growth, where basic growths had become very low. In this period of growth reduction in Iceland, it can be said that the financial policy that would have had to be more important if interest had not dropped significantly, as it turns out. In fact, now the bat has already increased its control height by 0.25% and the main growth by 1%. In a statement made by the Cabinet Committee of Money, even That economic recovery is more powerful than previously thought and that prospects have improved. Therefore, it is necessary to deal with persistent inflation pressure, which is mainly explained by the increase in worldwide product production and distribution due to Covid-19. In that case, pay and housing have increased within the country. Despite the economic setbacks that have followed this epidemic, we, a respected president, have succeeded in protecting and maintaining the success that has been achieved in the welfare system and continuing planning for infrastructure. Of course, it has meant a great deal of expense, but that time had come and promised in a government covenant, and with it it it was. The education system has been promoted at both the college and the college. Transport and communications contributions have increased by more than 60% in real value from 2017 to 2021. Social, housing, and insurance contributions have increased substantially, and among the emphasis on the terms of the season, there is an increase in the income market of the elderly, prolongation of the birth stocks, increased housing productions, as well as the payment of sharing loans. There have been an increase in the physical value of some 33 billion dollars in the case of the elderly and the disability of the elderly. of around 23%. Health costs are weighted by all the litany and four most important issues of health care, except for a total of 275 billion dollars. In 2021, which is 29% of the cover expenses of Part A of the Reich Fund. About 18 billion bucks. In 2021 more money flows to health - care investments compared to 2017, which explains most of the construction of a new land hospital. Finally, there is large - scale contributions to the environment. Emphasis include land healing and the recovery of wetlands, as well as the emphasis has been placed on reducing environmental policies and support in energy exchange. At that time, measures related to climate activities have increased dramatically over the course of time. This emphasis is well reflected in a revised plan of 2,222,226. The economy has changed since we agreed to the current programme in December. The current plan we will discuss is based on the National Standards of Iceland, published in March. The decrease was less than predicted, or 6.6% compared to 7.6% in prior forecasts and better outcome has already reduced the need for maintenance measures. Despite the fact that economic growth over the entire period has improved, this improvement in terms of unemployment is not reflected. It is now expected that unemployment will be slightly higher by the end of the comparative period as unemployment is expected to be 4.9% in 2025. It is important to note that the latest product generation in Haguems is estimated to be in the economy in 223 C.E. The government's vital task is to prevent these predictions of unemployment from being fulfilled. During the controlled period, however, there are several changes in investments, which are a conversation of commercial investments, investment in apartment houses, and investments of the public. In the previous Haguess survey, public investments 2020 were expected to increase by 15.8%, but according to the preliminary 2020 edition, public investments were dragged together by 9.3%. This decrease was somewhat surprising in the light of the government's special investment plans set up in 2020. However, when these figures for 2020 are cut off, it is found that in rural investments between 2020 and 2020, an increase of about 6% was made in government investments. However, rural communities had an exceptionally high investment of 2019. Due to the shortevity of the approved last programme in December, it was not considered a reason to reevaluate core policy areas and focus on causes of heartburn. So there is not much change. However, there is an increase in hospital services and climate increases. Energy contributions have been reevaluated, as has the case of the elderly, and energy contributions increase in the same way. Climate production increases by 1 billion a year, and the amount for hospital services is collected, for these five years in the programme, by 11.2 billion dollars. The majority are particularly concerned with the opinion of a financial body. Official financial policies and policy evaluations are an important tool for government discussion. By 13. The law on government financial matters requires financial advisers to provide an evaluation and an opinion on financial programmes. As we shall recall in December, the Council of December's Council legalized the temporary arrangement that the statistical conditions for the end of the 2025 year would be interrupted, and it also included the change in the role of the Council in evaluating whether government policies meet the baseline law and whether the stated objectives of the government and their implementation will allow them to take effect from 2026 on the rules. In 2026 the Council's financial budget will again be able to enter into force in 2026. A financial body feels that the goal of stopping the debt rate of 2025 is in terms of a financial rule and is fully expressed in the development of financial policy after the end of elections and in financial programmes in the coming years. The recommendation reminds us that when financial rules have been set aside, the values of the baseline values are increased. In this context, financial adviser points out that the plan could be more basic than it really is. In the past, financial advisers have concluded that financial programmes have been unsuccessful in the framework of policy targets and that the underlying weaknesses of survival have already been identified. Thus, in view of the social challenges we face, the Council feels that the long - term sustainability of public funds will be considered inevitable. The challenges given are demographics, climate and technology development, and the consequences of this on production, employment level, production, and, therefore, balance on income and government fees. The majority agree with this recommendation and despite previous reactions. By reviewing policies and uncertainty vectors based on policy trends, the recovery has been in irons or in the floors of the policy, as stated. The majority of them consider it important to draw this out, as the board does in its opinion, because it is the main project of the budget; to ensure the transparency of measures; and to assess the need for adjustment regularly; to divide income and expenses; and the consequences for the economy and public finances. On this important discussion and a number of other factors presented in the leading section, I refer to the detailed and clear opinions of the Council. A greater proportion of them were included in a committee study due to a budget bill 2021 development of the framed causes of acidification from 2017, in line with the development reported by the Committee from 20171⁄226. That table is included here in which the government's emphasis is clearly expressed and included in a period of current strategy to form the basis for this revised plan. The overall increase means an absolute value of 201 billion. or 27%, and I'm not sure that there has been a similar increase before. The strategy we're discussing here is based on the same policy and current plan, but it is largely updating and extrapolating based on the latest Haust project and changing economic outlooks. Hospitalisation services continue to be maintained, and the greatest change in this schedule compared to the current schedule is an updated plan for the construction of a new Hospital. Congregation is the increase, as I said before, 11.2 billion bucks. Between 20222/206 and 2020226 respectively. Then we expect a billion dollars. The annual contribution to climate for the next 10 years or 5 billion over the period of this strategy is to meet the growing targets of Iceland's acidification of greenhouse gas emissions. These contributions are divided into four environmental topics; transport and communications; agriculture, energy, and the environment. The Commission reviewed the latest programmes for climate change and the aim of the strategy is to contribute to the growth of Iceland's updated commitments to Paris agreements to achieve a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 by Norway and the European Union and to achieve the target of a non-carbonization in the year 2040. The General agreed to a Parliamentary resolution of Iceland's policies on northern affairs in May 19th. The majority of the reports show that it stresses combating climate change and responds to their negative impacts in the north, and it also shows the goal of promoting Akureyri further as the center of the North Sea in Iceland. There, William Stephen's Founding plays a key role in the counseling and cooperation of environmental sustainable development. The majority of them are aimed at Environment and Resource Ministers evaluating the budget of the Agency, projects and innovations associated with new unsolved Arctic policy. In recent years, a financial committee has discussed the management of nursing homes. This time, she carefully studied a recent report by a member of the Directorate of Health Services on the survival of the households, and the committee presented some of the key elements in the report. Clearly, the report under consideration does not answer all the questions needed to address the problem then and when it is not fully understood in an appropriate way. However, I would like to say here that this report contains very important information. We have called for such data to be collected regularly so that financial needs can be reasonably evaluated. In recent years, the majority have called for data that are useful at evaluating domestic needs. The rest of the part wants to make a decision that the project is urgent. There will be no avoiding the results of the report, handling this problem, and continuing to achieve agreements based on a weight-based assessment. During the following years, significant nursing facilities are planned and up to 640 new spaces are expected to grow in nursing homes, but the plan remains to be followed by 263 new compartments under the implementation programme is not fully financed from 2020, as a financial programme is involved here in the council. In the long run, however, it is clear, in view of the greater part, that the building of services to older ones needs to be looked more and more closely to alternatives to regular nursing care. In a discussion on the current financial agenda, the situation and the ratings of the local community were discussed. On the basis of Article 11. Public financial legislation was made an agreement on the goals for survival and economy of rural society. A meeting was made up of important tasks that people intend to work together. These include an overall review of rural income stocks and the regular work of rural society, but it was also decided to consider the cost of development in services to disabled persons, to collect an answer and to reevaluate expenses for nursing and other services to the elderly. It's a team who's working on these factors. In accordance with the agreement, the government issued a declaration in which plans and measures were made to provide financial support to the rural communities and to defend the legal basis for the pandemic. The overall support for the exercise of rural society on the basis of the declaration was 4.8 billion. These actions led to including in order that the arrival of a local partner last year would be better than expected in August. When the national and rural groups estimated that the result would be negative by 20 billion. It is assumed that as the proportion of total income increases by 9% and becomes about 113% at the end of the year for the rural population, this proportion is expected to increase by 73%. That ratio was about 62% in 2019. A significant decrease was observed in last year's investments, while plans for 2021 contain plans for a significant increase. Farmers have pointed out the possibility that the State's authority will be more supportive of the financial funding of rural society, with the goal of lowering their interest payments. The credit card is linked to a share-of-the-art risk factor of property and may be risked for your own capital, so-called CAD rate, the loan account at any time does not go below 8%. The sea is not thus able to finance itself in a practical way as far as the government's funds are concerned. A major part of the section is directed toward the government to examine fully the potential for lowering the growth rate of rural society. Now I'm going to explain to you the changes the most part suggests. This is one adjustment proposal, but the greater part points out that this strategy is limited to more rapid changes resulting from up - to - date national ideals. This will inevitably lead to a reexamination of several factors in preparation for the next year's budget. In particular, contributions to high school and university levels due to student growth in connection with Covid-19 that will be reviewed will be found to outweigh what is already expected in the program. This is now started with a program report, and the more part reiterates it here. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the budget of 2021, there is an opportunity for nearly 2.4 billion temporary funding to meet the general number of students, as well as for the study project. The next year, it is estimated that 1.9 billion of these budgets will drop as the global impact of the pandemic declines. However, the final numbers of students that are fundamental to financial management are very uncertain and are not proposed for a change in the schedule here. The funding of the university system is expected to be revised in the fall when there is uncertainty about the number of students. The next year's budget, followed by the next financial programme, which covers the year 20231⁄2027, will be based on that data. Here's a proposal for a change in the subject range 25, nursing and rehabilitation services, to increase about 1,200 million. K. In 2023, 3,400 million. K. In 2024 and 2,900 million. K. In 2025 and the same amount of money, 2,900 million. Dec., 2026. This change accounts for funding the management of new nurses over the years. The change is aimed at financing the new space as the implementation programme for the construction of nursing facilities. According to it, 152 new space would be taken into use in 2023 and 111 more in 2024. A total of 263 new space funding is thus designed to be financed, a total of 640 that is planned for this period. I've been here to explain the changes the most part has proposed. The majority suggest that the proposal be agreed with the changes published in a special Senate document. Under the view of the majority of the remaining documents: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, and Árnadóttir Þóra Áranna.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u28	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for his speech here, an excellent speech. I'd like to put time aside the inquiry in this relationship immediately. It is of interest to consider the review of the financial Council when it comes to the acquisition of the wealth and the weaknesses of the estate. The Council noted that because of the weakness of a living, financial plans have been badly maintained, even in a ruffle. It is quite clear that this is a fairly obvious premeditation from financial resources to the government. I would have liked to have responded. The senator's comments to the financial council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir My lord, the Birgir of Þórarinsson, for bringing this forth. I take my heart to the financial council, and we've worked hard to take those tips from the financial council. I agree with a financial body to the point where I hope we can improve in the years to come in general on funding, on programmes, on policies, and on budgets in terms of policy-making. It's just to be clear that there was a small amount of shock when there were two consecutive episodes of hairy cell failure, and a airline went under, and the demand for tourism was reduced. At that time, we were on the ships of our course and went wrong on the wrong side of the zero compared with what was supposed to be. It actually reflects the problem that financial advice highlights. And that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u30	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. We can go through later on the reaction, and they knew where to go with WOW. However, that was not the case with WOW's fall back then and its impact on the economy. But for the sake of time only: One of the key managers behind the economic benefits proposed in this strategy is the arrival of tourists this year. Now it is so that the prospects for these things are darker if they do not follow. However, this has been observed at a meeting of the budget committee with a representative from the tourism agency that it is full of broad daylight on the part of the government. Travellers themselves view this as too optimistic. While the growth of tourism may be a basis for the economic benefits in the coming years, these are unrealistic numbers, when we watch e.g. ... 2022 and 2023 will be here 2 million tourists. I would've liked to have responded. A senator and chairman of the budget board on this matter, whether there is no unrealistic optimism about the arrival of tourists and the support of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Only about the first question, about the straitjacket that a financial body would like to call: We built here a space of uncertainty to deal with it, and that's an improvement. Of course, in the presence of tourists, the economy is most relaxed with tourism. We must rely on the positive progress of vaccinations and the maintenance of the demand for tourists to arrive; we must rely on it. Whether it's going to happen fast enough to predict what's going on, I don't trust myself to claim here, but I don't feel so strong. Just as the crash became powerful because the value of tourism is so much, we have to rely on growing out of it with the support of tourism. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u32	Mr. President. The government groups and the government have approved policy in all the sectors and have done so in December. The schedule we're discussing here is an update of numbers, but, of course, these numbers are behind people, patients, children, etc. The people of the land, so that they are truly important, must be developed into the language and what lies ahead. In the mid - 1990's, the World Bank feels that most Western countries will achieve a balance in financial terms and that there will be no need to increase taxes on the public or cut down public fees. V.E.G. However, the government wants to do so and immediately start cutting down and raising taxes after a year and a half when plans for unemployment are set up in 67%. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator whether he thinks it's too severe and it's too early.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a nice Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for drawing it out here. I brought it into my speech and stressed that this will be a balance art ahead. It is true that we agreed on a plan here in December. It's based on policy, like this one does. It's based on the same environmental policy. This list will have to be reduced long-term noncooperative and will not remain in the building of the welfare systems. We try to draw into our committee's underage operation and take away the Covid actions. I hope we succeed in growing out of it, so we don't have to take harsh measures. It must, and is repeated also in this strategy, to take place in the view of the economic future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u34	Madam President. Yet, it is now that the budget is repeated to include 34 billion combinations of cutbacks and tax increases, if the Habitat predictions are carried out. Madam President. Thirty - three billion is very high, and such measures cannot be avoided without touching the welfare system. I notice that in the strategy approved for the next terms, the highest levels are applied. Governments are not expected to respond to the growth of human hearts over the last few years between the paymen and those who have to rely on payment through the social security system. That's what I'm talking about. A senator will agree with these policies of the government that he supports that these matters are not to be handled, and the winding will continue to grow between the most needy and the poorest in the country? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. First, I want to answer the question of 34 billion resurgence based on the forecasts that are fundamental and based on the basic predictions. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if optimism follows, we have reached 12 million. This is the balance we need to look ahead, not to let the response and support of the economy become too rapid, but not to experience the pressure of inflation. And talking about harrowing, it comes down to everyone, and especially to our most vulnerable groups. But this is the number we look at in view of the plan that we must go to to stop debt collections and restore financial rules. The project ahead is, of course, growing out of it so that it doesn't try. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with what. A senator that we need to protect our most vulnerable groups in this respect and that all the numbers in action reflect the highest level. Governments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[(BH): The President reminds us that there is only one minute left when so many are allowed to respond.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u36	President. At first, I'm going to say that I'm not worried about the economy in the next few years. We have a volcanic eruption that'll be going on for sure for a few years, and the tourist industry will spill over us next year, not necessarily this year, but next year. If this doesn't happen, it'd be great to have plan B. But there is no plan B in this financial program on how to prevent unemployment if the eruption does not solve the tourism industry, etc. And not only that, but we want something other than tourism, aluminium with energy and fishing grounds. We want more job opportunities, but this has exactly reduced the support that has been made new in recent years. The chairman of the legal committee was putting up with this concern about how to prevent long - term noncooperative activity, but I don't see steps to do that unless now, just before the election for a short time. Besides, I don't see what it's like to be built up for a more varied job in Iceland, but it's only to be trusted that the tourism will get us out of this again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this wonderful answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. There was so much light in this counter. It is not unnecessary when we are in trouble. The body of elders has long been over all these numbers and data and comments, and they are trying to get it out of us. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator and would like to highlight the emphasis that has been made on innovation, research, evolution, knowledge articles, prosperity, six focus on prosperity that has taken over and entered 30 topics of 35. That's where we'll have to do better when we're in policy, which I know is why. A senator has talked a lot about it. But I am convinced that at any time, donations have been like this time, 2017-2021, doubled to innovation, research, and evolution. [[The president calls.]] We have much to do with it, and it's shown in a number of references, to achieve increased exports in technology and knowledge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u38	A respectable president. These plans are temporary. They're throwing out a New Creation Center. Nothing is in the place. There are temporary operations in innovation, which are mainly focused on the largest initiatives to receive the greatest reimbursement of research and development costs, and that is completing the second period of this strategy, at the time that we would need exactly to move on to build up this future economic system. I'm going to go in just a boring gear in my second opponent and talk about the policies of the environment that are missing in this financial program. Is it reasonable that the government and the government can simply decide not to present policies without asking the council? Because in these policy areas, we can see how government policies are affected in measurable goals. It's missing. We learned late in the year 2019, and then we get nothing by 2020. Is it acceptable that this is done in a lack of consultation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this question and a second answer. I'm gonna start with innovation, research and evolution. If we take the 20171⁄226, there is a 33% increase. - No. [[Up front.]] When a person falls out as part of the investment campaign into the new world, extending it is a new decision. Regarding the technical question, I might be very dry on the man regarding the topic fields, saying: The topic areas are in the proposal, calculated, so when we agree with the case, we agree with the policy areas of the press. This is correct in the December program that we agreed on. Of course, we'll discuss it here. I like that question, but I'll admit I've never done it this way before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u40	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A prominent member of the Committee for a fine review. It was a long, detailed talk, so it may be difficult to get ahold of it. But I'd like to ask a question anyway. It turns out that in the face of the difficulties that came with Covid, the community was overcrowded, government spending had spread, and this did not result in failure at that time despite warnings. A review of the financial Council says, with the permission of a president: During the crowning season, the belt was released, and the government's traffic increased so that the underlying product has become negative. If I recall correctly, 2019 citizens turned 70 billion upside down. Would it not have been good to have 70 billion now, but would it not be all that we need to carry out the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's question to this question. It would be easy to fall into the trap of saying: " Yes, it would have been nice to have these coins. However, when we left this ideal period, we faced a lack of infrastructure, especially transport infrastructure, as well as a number of other infrastructures, as is the case with social infrastructure. It is true that the government used every cent that was visible in budgeting programs and left very little space. That's what financial advice has all along pointed out, that policy should be established in a financial program. I can be absolutely honest that this is what we need to add to our strategy and possibly such policy would help us with a more efficient financial management. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not going to sign that it was just that way that turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u42	Madam President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. In his earlier reply, a senator claimed that it was not the policy of any human to have a level of unemployment. I wholeheartedly agree with him, of course not. Nevertheless, the budget estimates that the unemployment score will remain at the end of the period. How serious it must be to promote financial policies that assume that this will be the case! This is particularly remarkable in view of the fact that a government in the United States has made it clear that its plans to continue to sit. That's the first option, all the government leaders say. Thus, the only way this financial policy could be viewed is by the policy of the coming government. [[The president calls.]] That is why pride is no more than it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for putting it out here. We all agree that this is a unemployment level that we are not used to and should not accept. We must distinguish between economic forecast and policy, and this is certainly not part of government policy and is never to be, and it must not be. In the past, most of us have grown up with the ability to get a job; it is fundamental to the daily lives of individuals and families to have employment and advancement. I'm not staying with it. But this is, I think, just the big project ahead, all of us, to make sure it's not going to be long-term work. In view of the predictions, it is disturbing to see 2023 gone and 5% become unemployment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I hope that all the activities aimed at innovation, research, and evolution - that innovationism, the cluster policy will come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of a budgetary committee for his comprehensive background here on financial programmes. I don't have time to say much more than I want to ask. A member of the council to see if he could see what he was talking about when he said that a holiday goal had been raised to 100,000 dollars. The fact is, the average payoff was 109,000. around 2009. Free income target is exactly what a person can earn without being reduced. It was put down in 0K. and was supposed to cut right from 0K. for the last election, but the government, or rather the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson and others, were disfellowshipped. Now it's a hundred thousand bucks. That's 9,000 bucks. less than before. Then there's another one, $25,000. It's a pension payment payment. After every cent a pensioner earns more than that $25,000. he is affected by a loss of no less than 80%. I'm asking why. A senator: Is this normal, and is it reasonable that we should not do better in this financial program until the next five years, just to raise the number of holidays and holidays?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for her answer. I think that when we discuss our social security and insurance systems that help our most vulnerable groups, we need to look at things in the overall context. When there are high income markets, contributions are greatly raised; these are running on very large amounts of money. What we have focused on in this ideal period is to try to increase the income of those who have least in this system. This may mean that when we uphill markets, a lot of the money goes to those who earn more money. We do not want that. We want to balance the situation and help those who have the least.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for the answer. The highest pay I'll ask. A member of Parliament: How is it then that reality is that instead of raising the progress to the lowest paid insurance workers, about 33%, like that? A senator in his earlier history of a financial program has actually increased his dressiness? Instead of meeting pay development, social security reform is to be carried out, with nothing other than barbaric social security benefits, leaving inmolusts. During the pay period of about 7.3% this January, pensioners received 3.6%. There's always more and more to shine, and the fact is, because this very poorest group, the smallest of our brothers and sisters, has become in big trouble. It is then in nature to ask why. A senator: Why is this not expected in a five - year financial program? A senator came in earlier, putting his arms around, and helping us better the least of our brothers and sisters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this good question, which was involved in this financial program. I'd like to state that all this terms have always been looked to these groups and tried to back up where possible. These are the most efficient groups, and the lowest level of income has been increased and the next two groups have been added. Because of what? A senator refers to the financial program, and we have to look at the total budget; it's rising here from 2017/226 by 45% and 36% by the two main points. We need to make sure that these additional contributions and all these large funds flow to those who are to receive them so that we can ensure that the lowest groups can draw their lives on these coins that we are pointing to them. That's the job. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u48	Madam President. The government groups agreed in December. The common policy for all topics for the next election period. Budgeting plan 2022 placed 2,2266 will only make up the numbers compared to the economics of the Habitat. It was surprising to many that the government's future vision for the next election period had already come and agreed on a financial program of 2,22025. A smaller portion, which represents the United States budget, was expected to be in the financial programme in which the government would take the opportunity to report how they wanted to make better use of the expected resources, with its first anticipated budgets for the Korean epidemic, to improve health systems and to meet people and areas most likely to be out of the pandemic by means of specific measures. The government groups tell how they wanted to work against increasing inequities and support groups, which, according to a recent study of BSRB and ASI, suffer a physical deficiency. But it isn't. It is not expected that social security or unemployment insurance improvements, interest benefits, housing, child support, or birth holiday pay will increase according to pay. By doing so, the government is making a political decision to expand the land. It's a policy, registered and already approved, if they'll be back together in the government after the election. The vision of the future is that the recovery will be done on a previous scale, a debt that is low in all international comparisons. In 2025, the government is focusing on a certain debt rate, with its due cut off on government expenses. In addition to the financial principle established by the government itself, the debt rate of the state's wealth relative to gross domestic product, financial laws on public finances are to be taken into effect in 2026. All other countries that we would like to compare ourselves with have set aside financial laws in times of uncertainty and have not changed, as the government of the United States has done in the economy. The legal task of writing a financial program presented by the government has a warning about this in its opinion of the financial programme for the year 2022 place26. The Council rightly points out that both the rule of the issue of public finances and the obligation to make it possible for them to swallow after the economic crisis as it is now under way. The loss of debt becomes the most burdensome in the first year of debt at the same time, and still the impact of the epidemic on the economy and significant unemployment. And despite the cessation of the debt ratio in 2025, the recovery will still be negative by 1.5% of gross domestic product that year and also by 2026. Thus, there is the possibility that the regulations in the law will be burdensome in reinvigoration. The budget estimates that in 223 C.E., as predicted, surgery and tax growth will begin. The responsible route, the way we in the United States want to go, is about not taking measures too seriously too soon. We want to allow space and to create peace regarding how to divide income and harvest, distributing the burdens that are so unindependent, and seeing who they are, even though the government groups want to close their eyes. In terms of debt, the interaction between financial costs and economic growth should be considered. While budget costs are lower than economic growth, there is no need to take strong measures to cover the debt. Debates may be paid over a longer period of time, but the government assumes in its schedule. The financial adviser points out that for Covid, budgets were sufficient for new projects of about 2% of land production per year. Today, the government proclaims measures from 223 C.E. that cover all this scope. And when financial regulations are also implemented in 2026, they call for further cuts on government spending. Important infrastructures will suffer for such management for a long time at related costs. Insidencys will be piled up if governments' plans are carried out, whether in road and transport systems or in the health and health system. In 2010/2020, the first part of the period was characterised by the weak experience of the kroner, which accelerated the growth of tourism. The gang was weak at the beginning of the decade, which began in 2010. As time passed, the crown's strength slowed down. Now that the growth of tourism is reliant to get us out of the economy, we can't count on a small dollar that was due to the 2008 collapse of the bank. The branch office is no longer there. The growing number of tourists in popular tourist attractions, without adequate infrastructure in this article, led to a decline in the quality of tourism and a decrease in the growth of the gang's profits in tourism. It is necessary that policies for the restoration of this article in the following pandemic will be developed through sustainable development and climate control. Economic advisers, like so many others, point out that it is risky to rely too on the restoration of the economy based on rapid growth in one industry. As the number of tourists increases, the increase is likely to be stronger because of the high exchange rate of currency. Privately, a stronger reality works against the fast - approaching exports. While it is important to consider that a short - term solution to economic problems is a longer-term project to create a setting and create incentives that lead to increased economic production. It will be determined by how travel services can be more sustainable in the long term. Seaways and tourism provide exports based on limited resources, Iceland's nature and donated fishing plants. At their side, work projects must be built, which, to a greater extent, produce valuables by intelligent people. Therefore, the government should call for unions and employment unions to work together for such changes in Icelandic employment. The strategy that governments must take in order to promote more good jobs and economics is for professional policy, education, and tax policy. Governments must take care of these matters, defend the interests of the common people, and learn from past mistakes. The cost of the Covid crisis will be reduced in the long term if the government enters in a much more handsome way than expected. This must be done with a wide variety of employment arrangements and investments. The economy and unemployment need to be reused, further support for the job, protection of the well - being, and loss of income while working between jobs. Young people should have the opportunity to use their education here. The government prefers to tie itself in a certain debt number at the end of the period and accepts the risk that the economy does not achieve sufficient standards and that we take longer and deeper economic degradation. The jobseekers and their families need to be handled with a more reasonable advance, a longer period of improvement, and a vigorous workforce. How important it is that we keep our minds fixed on the present conditions, not just because it is important for the benefit and health of people, but also for the economy! Work needs to be created, invested in wood and structure, nurtured in child families, and settled against inequities. The Economic Standards report that after five years, some 10,000 people will be out of work, far beyond the average of the last decades. This is precisely mentioned in the financial program, although new measures or more investment projects are not mentioned or anything else to cope with the problem. However, the underlying problem is addressed to the systematic problems described in the text, which include a significant increase in salary levels over production and may result in a higher long-term lack of work than we have ever had before. Investment in education, infrastructure, research and development is intended to support production, but the economy may have a higher salary yield than otherwise, as the plan puts it. It's all true and true, but how does the government react? Newborn contributions were increased in the year and slightly increased according to the next year's budget, but within two years, donations have dropped by 26% and decrease by 34% in five years. Public funds of innovation have dropped over the past few years, as can be seen in the reviews of road, industrial and innovation ministers on subsidization of the New Creation Center of Iceland. Increased funding for innovation is called for, and it takes more than two years to meet these requirements and needs. The solution to the production problem is further support to the sector, which has fallen to increase production. The answer is not to call and pay for unreployed growth in industry, which yields little production growth and does not have good terms for the country. The solution to the work market is presented in the budget. She is not more well - paid and less low - paying than the one mentioned in this report: It is important that the workers of the workforce agree on a new and more efficient collective agreement model that can contribute to the balance of the labour market, thus increasing the stability of all to the benefit of all. This business of financial and economic ministers and the government understands this context in order to find ways to prevent pay increases in low wages, such as many of the services performed by women, young people and immigrants. Diversity and profit - making investments are the basis for growing valuables and increasing investments will play a major role in getting us out of the economic crisis. Investment in wood has been too small in recent years, and it will take on all of us for a long time, if not corrected. A new report by the Industrial Association reports that the expected increase in public investment will little more than bite the cumulative maintenance need created after the last downturn. For the condition of the interior to be considered good, an even greater force must be put in public investments, and there is a need for 420 billion dollars. As the report says, make an investment in getting them to a decent place. Unable to maintain the normal maintenance needs of the government's financial programme will go on. In that way, despite the vast investments of Reykjavík's city, we are actually looking forward to a recession in our public investment. On the other hand, we'll be off too late. Farmers around the world who have trusted in the tourism services have an advantage. There is a very limited budget for investment, which will be affected in these delicate areas right now and in the long run. The government does not directly support these rural communities to meet their loss of income and to ask for more social services, making it much more difficult for them to attack large investments. The last fall, when a financial plan was submitted, it was expected that rural investment would be flexed, and road construction projects will decrease by 7 billion dollars. between. At the 2021 Association of the Industrial Organization, it was reported that there were fewer projects than expected. In this crisis, we need to place the funds in the right places. The funds must be searched in the structure that counts and that is long - termly profitable. Money needs to get to the people who are in the crisis right now and in the internal investments that support the job. We know that these investments are useful to most men during performance. Some 85% of the jobs produced in the implementation of government investments are men's work. It is vital that we also make investments in the health, education, and well - being systems that have traditional women's work and an abundance of people. We're supposed to increase the number of nurses, hospital staff, and caregivers by any means necessary. These are our futures, and they are under a lot of stress right now, and unemployment is widespread among women. There is a great and valuable force ruined, and society is all for the benefit of using it immediately because it is needed. A recent study conducted in seven member countries of OECD shows that investments in care and well - being, such as aging services, health systems, and play schools, are far less effective and even more effective than investments in professions where more workers are male, such as in public or construction projects. V.E.G. The Minister of Education has been proclaiming something called an education, but there are no funds for the campaign in the government's financial program. It is sad to say that recently adopted academicism is just a beautiful word on paper that will not make a difference in education. However, more likely it has been more important to promote education than today, both to strengthen young people without employment, but also to prepare us all for the fourth industrial revolution and all the changes in their work and working environments. President. If the Union had produced a financial plan for the next five years, then priority would have been different from that of the current government. A reduction of 1st contributes to some of the most important changes proposed to the optimal and well - being of children, older people and desperate individuals, climate, general law, and the support of tax recovery and competitiveness. It is also suggested that the funding of campaigns to work on waiting lists, which have grown considerably by Covid. Special attention should be paid to the maintenance of surgery and mental - health services with children. The Group of United Nations has repeatedly provided prime warnings about a righteous increase in social security, which has not been achieved in the eyes of the administrations. From July 1, 2009, the payout rate for remuneration has remained unchanged and should have been twice as high today as it would have followed the pay sheet. This alone reduces the activity of microbubbles that could otherwise be more effective in a good day. There too is a great and valuable active force that has been thwarted. The greatest danger of poverty and economic hardship is that of microenergy pensioners, and the complex system's restrictions contribute to that danger. During the past few months, relief agencies have warned of a great increase in food distribution. Most who turn to them are desperate, long - suffering, single mothers, and unemployed people. Necessity is growing because of unemployment, but also because pensions and disability pensions do not increase in terms of minimum wages. This is how large groups of people are held in a poverty trap. The fallout of the past few years must be reduced and the pension is rising. People who don't have the opportunity to earn jobs, some of them have no pension rights, no money income, and all trust in the social security system. The only update in the budget for terms of disability and older ones is because of their numbers, not to improve terms and cut-offs, is to assume an increase in the budget under the Habitat plan. There are no steps to improve the benefits of those who need to rely on the insurance system. The people who trust in the payment of an insurance agency to live on get too little money, and raises have not kept up with biographies. As a result, the amount of sugar you produce compared to minimum income insurance is considerable. The difference now between minimum income insurance and pension is 85,000. per month. We're going to make some adjustments during the next election period, and after election we'll be able to get equal men in a position. We suggest that old age and microenergy pensions increase in accordance with the increase in low wages and the high cost of calculating as shown in a recent report published by the Chemicals, which is exactly being presented today. Also, we suggest that the holiday line due to payment from pension funds take steps up to 100,000 dollars. a month at 25,000 a.m. Labour markets for sectoral incomes and sensibilities will be increased to minimum wage insurance at any one time. These changes will take place in four steps, and the first will be taken in 2022. Once fully implemented, they cost about 30 billion dollars. each year, however, it can be assumed that 25% goes back to the state fund in the form of taxes. As the life span of the Icelanders grows, it is important that we immediately explain the goals of a carefree life and a lifetime, with better health care and higher pensions. The group who trust in these payments is large and unacceptable for the rich that people are meant to live in poverty. President. The policy of child - rearing society and the way to fulfill the United Nations Children's Covenant, as legally established, must be fully financed. The General Assembly of the Icelanders must see to it that this is the case. One thing that will be fully financed is a waiting period for services to children, whether by diagnosis or by consultation. Defenses against any kind of violence and neglect of children must be strengthened, and governments must never put children in dangerous situations, whether within the country or by sending them out of the country. In Iceland, children's families are far from being given as much support as they are used in other countries. Young people with average wages get no child benefits. No matter how many overtime hours are spent, the child's condition is not for their children. As the parents work more hard to provide their children with comfortable housing, clothing, food, and leisure activities, the children spend little time with their parents and the stress of driving and moving in from work to work takes their toll. According to government policies, only families with income will receive minimum pay insurance for minor children's benefits. The pedophiles in this country begin to be affected as soon as the salary has reached $351,000. per month. When the monthly wage is just over 600,000 bucks. During months there are no child reforms and have been reduced to a significant extent by the cruel declines in income that result from current government policies. Children's settlements are paid out four times a year. The first clearly needed change is a monthly allowance to minimise costs, including because of overwages in bank accounts, making sure that the payments become a normal part of the household's monthly operation. If there are as much child support as they are now paid every month, they would be sensitive to a factor of 31,000. in a month with one child under seven years of age with a man and a woman of 44,000 years. to single - parent families. If the children are two and another under seven years of age, the favor would be 55,000. in a month with a couple and a week with 78,000 K. in single parents. If Iceland is to be a child-friendly society, as we officers are going after the next election, we must support more children's families. In Norway, Sweden and Finland, child reforms are not related to income, but in Denmark a decrease in high income levels is introduced. The linking is in the Norwegian countries through the income tax system. The idea is that by child reforms, it is ideal for those with children to match the terms of those who do not share children, while the highest earners pay higher income taxes. We at the United States of Iceland would like to take safe steps to have a child-friendly society. The first step toward financial support for children's families in the next term would be children's families, with 600,000 parents. a month or less will be given to you if you are not planning to have a child. When this is a goal, 13 billion dollars have been spent on child - saving expenses. This year at 22.2 billion dollars. Children's improvement will be up in our schedule in four steps. The first step in 2022 will be based on a break in child damage at 450,000. a month, 500,000 a.m. In 223 C.E., 550,000 k. In 2024 and finally 600,000 times. in 2025. The cost of these measures is far more rewarding with the child's better feeling and increased prosperity. President. Laws on general apartments were approved in the summer of 2016. The uniting system is an attempt to restore to the social housing system that was deactivated by the end of the last century, with a reduction in the number of social apartments between 1998 and 2017. In this regard it is worth remembering the longest talk ever held at the Council. She took Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, former prime minister and director of the United States, to protest the decomposition of the social apartment system, May 14, 1998. The aim of the law on general apartments is to improve the security of those below certain limits of income and property by increasing access to safe and appropriate renting. This will help to ensure that housing costs are in line with the payment of those who rent the house and usually do not exceed 25% of their income. The current government budget now estimates that some 3,200 apartments will be built in 2016-022. Much of this development is made up of the Save Apartment Company, which was founded by ASI and BSRB a few years ago, and the Breets, the tenets' tenets of the Homing and Managing Institutes, which are fired without economic goals. The apartment system is financed, so the government provides a stock supply of 18% of the total stock market. Whether it is in the building or because of it, the value of stocks is the expense of the apartment. Reykjavík has built most apartments in the general housing system for low - income workers, students, cripples, and disabled people, and others who are having trouble participating in a general apartment market. Some 73% of the amount is in Reykjavík. The rural society that reaches the capital in the construction of large apartments is Hafnarfjörður. It has made contributions for 204 apartments, or 8% of all donations made from state funds. The population of Hafnarfjörður is 8% of the population. Other rural areas in the capital area are these two long behind the structure of the general housing system. In Kopaavgi, where more than 10% of the population lives, donations have been made for 58 apartments, or 2.2% of the total population. The Seltananes, 1.2% of the population's population, have six apartments that fall under the general apartment system either ready or in the building and in the Gardenville town where 5% of the population lives, there are 25, or 1% total. In Mosfellstown, two apartments have been purchased for the disability or disabled that fit into the overall apartment system. In Akureyri, where there is 5.2% of the population, there are 67 apartments, or 2.6% of the overall residence system. In Smokeytown, 11 such apartments have been built, purchased, and in A year's town of 37 C.E. Here is a summary of the core of the building of the overall living system from November 6, 2020. The overall living area must be severely fortified and continue to build an unfashionable rented apartment throughout the country. The main objective of the overall housing system is increased rent - house supply and that people's housing costs will be in accordance with their ability to pay. We in the United States suggest that in the year 20222/226, there will be 3,000 dwellings in the general apartment system and the stock production will continue to be 3.8 billion. The year to the year 2026, as with an agreement with the Life Treaty Treaty, accounts for the year 2022. So $2 billion must be added. for the budget of the year 2023◯226. Housekeeping is a general support to tenants who were once granted in the form of rent payments. These are monthly payments that are based on a number of households, taking into account income, possessions, and payments for housing expenses. Now they receive housing, with a total of 31,000 household households. Special housing support for tenants who receive community service is paid by the rural community. Farmers have asked for changes in this and for their systems to be united. Intensifications are income and property-related compensations to those who pay interest fees for their own housing. Expansion due to growth reform results in much of the success of those who do not need it. We contribute to increasing rent improvements and changes in the quality of the growth reform system so that the funds will be more useful to people under the subsidies. A billion each year would be provided for repairs and coordinations on the housing reforms. The main focus of budgeting to 2025 as a result of hospital services is to improve quality health care, increase access to correct service, and shorten the period of waiting. All of these are essential goals, but money lacks to achieve them. On the Web site of December 18th. It was stated that the National Hospital does not have to work in the congregations of the management halls over the years 2021 52023, as agreed by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics. For renovations at the Hall of Hospitals, a financial programme of 20222/226 will be sought for financial resources. This was reported by the Department of Health. Otherwise, the hospital would have had to cut about 4.3 billion. But there is not a word on this agreement in the financial program that we are discussing here, but it was promised that it would be. A health minister spoke in a discussion about a budget bill for 2021 that would not be performed to limit patient service. But there is nothing about this in the financial program. It is quite clear that budgeting for the Land Hospital is not working, and thus it is still heading for a home run. Because of the effects of the Korean virus epidemic, the list of necessary measures has been held out for a longer period of time. There has also been an extended period of waiting for mental health care in both children and adults. Medical health care cannot be given to all citizens of health care. According to a report published in February alone, the National Hospital for Health Services. waits for specialist services and surgery to extend between 2020 and 2021 years. Most people are waiting for cataract surgery, knee replacement, hip replacement and cardiac incineration. A total of 3,625 subjects wait for surgery, but the Korean virus epidemic has had a variable impact on waiting time for surgical procedures. Obviously, these lists need to be worked fast and well and budgeted. We in the United States recommend a 4.4 billion bucks. will be given to work on the list of waitings in total between 2022 and 2023. Delayed psychiatric services have been observed but there was a significant increase between 2020 and 2021 between the challenge groups and the ADHD team. A total of 1,095 persons are waiting for mental - health services at the Land Hospital, and 131 children are waiting for services to be served in BUGL. We propose 500 million dollars. will be put out of the schedule each year to deal with this serious problem. It is important to deal with health care centres'problems in growing areas. The amount of money to health institutions has not been followed by an increase in population. As a result, the inhabitants of these areas have suffered. In addition, because of 25% of the land's unemployment, Southnesan Health Institutes adds to the pressures. To correct this situation, there is no waiting. We suggest that over the next five years a billion dollars each year be donated to these institutions to deal with this specific problem. The UN International Commission on Climates has estimated that every year 2.5% of world production is needed to limit global warming at 1.5 °C compared to the average temperature of pre- industrial revolution. Research suggests that for the next five to ten years, mankind and the ecosystems on earth are crucial. The more than 10% of the world's population is responsible for half of all greenhouse gas emissions, but the consequences of this emissions are more severe to the poorest nations in the world. Thus, the battle against disaster is an inseparable battle against global inequities and the responsibilities of rich nations. The release of Iceland is only a global violation of emissions, but the examples prove that small countries can exert a powerful influence by taking initiative, setting a good example, and promoting international changes. OECD aims to maintain global warming within 2.0°C every year to study as much as 6% of the world's production, 4.0% due to transport and other infrastructures, and 2.0% due to energy efficiency and energy efficiency. The climate is a global challenge in Iceland's ideal position to set a good example, as well as by intelligent solutions. Human climatic work is one of mankind's biggest joint projects. Each member of the United States needs to do his part, and the contribution made by the government needs to be sufficient for more ambitious goals than the current government does. The markets will not solve the climate problem on their own. This applies equally to measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as well as measures to bind and discard carbon. For Iceland to be able to progressively reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve levels of green structure, the government needs to take a big initiative in the form of climate-friendly investments and provide a way to the private sector. No community problems are reached for rapid energy exchange and other changes in job and lifestyle unless the quality of the environment is guided by which costs cannot fall on income-rich groups or on scattered populations above others. According to a study performed by economists for Oxford Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment in May 2020, based on interviews with a third hundred experts and executives in finance conferences and money companies around the world, investments in green innovations and development and distribution systems for renewable energy are desirable during crisis times. Thus, the aims of sustainability and noncarbonization are in good stead for improving quality of life and for increasing the number of jobs. These are the suggestions made by the United States to change the budget. We're setting up 5 billion bucks. increase in the year 2023 a226 to climate climate, where capital emphasis would be applied to speed up energy exchange by subsidies and tax beat from climate - related automobiles, improve public transport, strengthen the economy, green food production and full-time production in climate-friendly foods, make changes in agrienvironmental environment to support greener production and support the European Commission. In addition to the increase to climate at 5 billion K. This year 20231⁄226 contributes less than 1 items for green investment funds, more specific green activity in public transport, and green innovations. At the same time, the United States suggests that carbon costs will be raised to the standard by the recommendation of the International Cash Fund and OECD, as well as by increasing reserves and loans of ideals for green energy exchanges in contaminated industry. We propose the establishment of a green investment fund owned by the government supporting the climate-friendly and green high-tech industry. The government will place the fund at 5 billion dollars. in 2022. The sea looks for cooperation with private investors, takes into account the government's climate action programme and the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council of its entire operation. The construction of the city line in the capital area will be accelerated, with 1.5 billion dollars. additional contributions to build a structure for bicycle riding next year. At the same time, there will be an increase in rural areas to make it easier and more desirable to travel between parts of the country by bus. We suggest higher contributions to Technical Development Fund, Research Fund and Industry Fund, and that support of the European Union will be financed so as not to interfere with counter-production loans for innovation in business problems. President. We suggest that a special contribution be made to increase the number of citizens in general. Clearly, there is much pressure there. This has been called for the police to care for the inhabitants, and we suggest that legal contributions to the general law be increased by 1.5 billion. Passing the schedule period. IRS needs to be intensified and we need to make a larger percentage, at least 10% of the estimated 100 billion are tax frauds each year. In order for that to happen, we need to promote the IRS. We also need to promote the Contestance Board, and especially now during this uncertainty period in our major industry, tourism. It is obvious that fusion will occur, risking monologue and action that will affect the public's interests. It is necessary to revise the tax system and make the best use of it to earn money and to strengthen the welfare system as well as to increase the equation in this country. We at the Union noses in the committee's opinion a few things that are on our way. We want a higher wealth tax, which is obvious that we must change. It has been said that fishing costs are similar in value to tobacco. Of course it doesn't work out, and each man sees that we have to raise the bounty and clean up in that field. We've talked about the gradual exchange of capital taxes and gross property taxes and, of course, improving tax control and green taxes to cover the climate. President. The cohesion suggests a change in budgetal programme 20223/4226, with an increase in expenses from 3.1% in 2022 to 5.5% in 2026, and an equal recovery of a righteous income. Many measures will reduce longer costs. All of the Union's proposals to increase the number of jobs, increase green values, improve the health and safety of the people in the country, and improve the benefit of children and the worst - set groups in society. With a financial plan to the next five years, the government of Independence Class, Progress, and the left movement has taken a course for the next election period. The government has shown what will be done under its control and will survive the end of the election in September. The government groups will still agree with the policy of cutbacks, continued unemployment, and inconformate by the end of Congress in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u49	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the cooperation of the Committee and particularly for this fine speech. I thought why. A member of the body highlights the number of assignments. I think the whole world is going to get out of this Covid crisis, but I think if it hadn't gone by then the world would still have looked into a green economy. Hv. A senator entered climate and environment, the economy, green food production. But, hey. A senator also made an inexorable subject of conversation. One thing that has appeared in international institutions is also that it is not only a green digital economy that the world is trying to achieve but that everyone is involved and that there is a lack of restraint, that no one is left in this crisis. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator when it is his turn. Hv. A senator also stressed the welfare system, investments in the interior, but I'm a bit thinking about it. A senator is afraid that the adjustment called here is too fast. The adjustment is either on the expense gate or on the income side, meaning higher taxes. At the same time as we raise taxes and plan to grow out of the crisis, employment will normally reduce growth. I'm gonna ask you, "How's it going?" A senator's balance in this regard when he wants to ensure that we will not be too fast adjusted but will still finance all the action that means higher taxes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u50	Mr. President. Hv. A senator agrees with me when I discuss green emphasis. They will not be carried out unless the state steps in tighter. This billion a year in addition to our commitments in the years 20223026 will not be possible. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator sees it as well as I do needs to do so much better. The green steps we take, whether in innovation, evolution, when we build up jobs, in the requirements we make for business on the green side, etc., will join us and expect to be counted on in time. Although this may have its initial costs, it is evident that it will continue with us for a long time. Many have noted that the nations have taken all kinds of action and have responded quickly because of the pandemic. However, when it comes to climate, the warming of the earth by man will kill more humans than Covid has ever done. I believe, Mr President, the tax increases we have in the United States suggest that they be seen as reforms. This will increase the equation, and there are an enormous number of studies and analyses that normally show that yields economic growth so that we will be affected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. And, yes, I agree with what. A senator with regard to the equation, it should be a rivalry, not just our nation, but all over the world, to reduce inequities by all means. Blessed are most prominent, political leaders, economists, the educational world, in that direction. I'm just going to draw out the overall picture of the balance we need to achieve the economic trend we look at here from forecasts, to stop debt collections from now on with 2023, and to activate financial order and this need for adaptation. I'm just going to say at the same time that we're going to have to follow this level so that we don't pull out too quickly, but we don't get on the gas that we're going to lose inflation, etc. This adaptation requirement is solely to stop debt accumulation. Because of what? A senator was here offering suggestions that increase expenses, I could totally agree that specific taxes, green taxes, are well within my rights. But I think that part of this overall picture, to form these priorities as a matter of course. A senator, in fact, went over our welfare system, was that it is short enough for our welfare system to take six out of ten dollars that we make in the common fund. I think the project ahead must be to balance the growth process, not to raise taxes too if it is needed, and to look to specific taxes. [[The president calls.]] Is that my understanding just from a talk? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u52	Mr. President. The task ahead is to get all of us out of this crisis. The task ahead is to direct funding to where it is needed. The task ahead is to lighten the load of those who have lost their jobs; governments have not done enough to spread the burdens, but there are more than 20 of you. someone who has had to carry the load in this condition. I think it's a shame how people treat them. Today, dozens of people are falling off the unemployment reform system and end up in the community service of the rural society and with relief agencies to survive. It is a disgrace, and it is a disgrace in a Icelandic society that thus treats people who are unemployed at a time where there is no work. This is the task, to distribute the burdens. Throughout the Western world, people are looking at the material that has benefited from the situation and how to earn money by distributing it. They're watching those people who've come out pretty good in this crisis, and there's just a lot of people, that's about 90% of people. This is the plan, Mr. President. It is a huge bite to set up a plan for the next election period with a six- and-and-a-half-seven-seven percent unemployment, and to cut down or make taxes for $34 billion. This year from 2023. [[The president calls.]] It will only harm the welfare system and the people who need their services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u53	President. This is the last financial program of this election period, where governments are moving their course to the next five years. However, in order to find government policy on this device, both the magnifying glass and the time machine are needed. Magnification glass because the only policy available in this financial program, on top of the previous, is a billion additional dollars in climate for the next ten years, to bridge the gap between previous policies by 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions to 55% reduction. So is the reference to the last financial program, where it was too difficult for the government to agree on policy out of the code. The current government policy, underlying in this financial program, expires at the end of 223 C.E., which really means that a financial program of 2019◯23 was the last government policy, with some emphasis on financial authority for the five - year duration of the programme. They're simply running out of funds, and nothing new is involved. There was nothing new last, there was no policy on how to get out of the code, after that, because elections are approaching, and it is rather obvious that the government groups are a little at odds about what action to take, they are simply waiting for elections. And it is even more obvious in this financial program, where they will not update the course in spite of obvious motives for the situation of the epidemic and the measures to be taken afterwards. The economic crisis in this financial program is fine and describes this problem that needs to be addressed in the near future, but the policy of how to do so is not to be found here. In the situation in which we are now, we see the end of our meeting boundaries and the opening access to tourists. A future policy will be needed, but government will deliver rich. Since the last estimate of the government's work plan has been made for increasing unemployment, but at the same time, it is said that the greatest challenge for the next year is to prevent these forecasts of unemployment from being realized. In other words, predictions of unemployment were bad when governments set out their last financial agenda, and now they are worse in spite of government policy. Clearly, government policies do not work, so it is most interesting to see no changes in government policies. However, there are several measures that have been taken lately, starting jobs, etc., which is just a very good idea. They called for it for quite some time. The major failures there are that these actions are actually done only until elections, with financial resources expected until the election is over. That is very vivid for both the government business, in real life, behind the scenes, and what we see today in this financial program. It is obvious that a policy cannot be set before elections, since the party groups are going to vote free and try to keep their promises and to buy added force within likely the same government, however, because it has been said quite often that there is nothing so lost to work in this government. What we see, however, as in this financial program, is aimless. This epidemic has been a failure to cope with the problem. At the beginning of this epidemic, it was said that we should react equally. Even so, we have seen unemployment go on increasing until the end of the year. Then, only a fraction of a drop began to be broken, but nothing enormous. And, yes, because these actions, which were finally taken after the year when unemployment broke out - are not to say that they are reacting so quickly. It was simply too late because there was no policy on what to do. And once again, the government's policy is to have a financial plan, but it can't be found here. It's a tough situation. There is no denying that. What is even more difficult is to see all the lost opportunities. While unemployment was heading for 10% last fall, the Technical Development Fund alone financed 8% of applications. So the opportunity for innovation to meet increasing unemployment was there, not just at the Technical Development Fund, but in so many places all over the country. What did the government do about it? Cut down a Creation Center without having a plan on what would replace it. What did Piranar and the government do? Make it 9 billion. They'd be put on a new-born situation right at the start of the epidemic. The government proposed 1.5 billion dollars. which turned into $3 billion. before the case was accepted. This was the situation at the beginning of the epidemic, the vision that appeared to us, and the suggestions then placed on the table to deal with the situation. The government began in 1.5 billion and rose to 3rd. Piranus and the government led to 9 billion. The result was funding 8% of applications from the Technical Development Fund, which would have been upreached in terms of Pirata's proposal and government opposition. The opportunities were there, they weren't used. The result is increasing unemployment. It's obvious. The government's policy on climate is interesting, for it is actually the only addition to government policy since the last time. Only a few days after the last government policy was approved, it was announced that a change of policy, which was naturally quite crazy to receive so soon after the council supplied government policy. The new policy is 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 instead of 40% reduction. It was found that policy was actually derived from our partners on climate issues in Europe, with a new policy of about 55% falling and Iceland's government being followed. The 2040 non-carbon policy remains unchanged and is quite necessary. To achieve these targets by 55%, the government contributes to 1 billion annually for the next ten years. However, no attempt is made to explain whether it takes a billion years to achieve it as much as the previous day. The financial Council explains the importance of transparency in its review to the budget in a very clear way, with the permission of a president: It is important to increase transparency in terms of the expected benefits of internalinvestment in the community and on the basis of priorities, especially in the difficult circumstances where money is limited and a sensitive balance exists between economic stability and the sustainability of public funds. It is not only important but, under government laws, that government policies are costly, profitable, and prioritized to see the benefits of government policy beyond anything else. This whole election season has been going on, and it's still not being carried out. Environmental issues are one of the areas in which the government has emphasized its importance. It also looks like this, but in the table in terms of the greater part of the budget of the budget, there is a 57% increase in budgets of the environment in the programme period of this government, from 2017 when it began, to 2026, at the end of the last financial programme. That's an increase of 16.6 billion. Up to 25.8 billion, or about 9 billion. increase of resources. In order to understand the context, however, the accompanying sections of the budget need to be reviewed, showing that the increase is primarily in the litigation categories of wastes, surfaces, and eventually environmental management. For a detailed discussion of expenses for climate change, see box 11 of the budget. This brings out more than 13 billion dollars. to climate change in the year 2022. It shows how the budget for climate is highest between 2020 and 2020, and then it reduces again from 2024 because the current taxation costs due to eco-friendly vehicles fall. As I said before, the government's policy is going out of 2023. The same applies to innovation levels, etc. It all expires then. The situation today, according to the climate programme, is that measures that have been estimated to achieve 35% reduction to 2030. That's what we're dealing with here, or that's what's been evaluated. modulation measures should provide an additional 51⁄211% contracture. That plan is to deliver us from nearly 3.2 million tons of emissions to just over 1.9 million, relative to 40% of emissions, by the previous course. As previously said, a new policy is expected to reduce 55% of emissions to slightly over 1.4 million tons. Thus, there is a lack of action in the climate program of about half a million tons. Here, a simple combination exercise should show us, given that this is correct, i.e. The capital that's there and the scope of action under a climate plan, that there's something odd going on here. If climate resources were estimated to be 12 billion dollars. In 2022, to achieve a 40% decrease in emissions and a 1-million-dollar increase in turning us to 55% contractions, we must ask why they obviously did not start inexpensive and efficient tasks, for that is a 15% reduction of only 1 billion during a 40% recession cost 12 if you understand what I mean, in a simple imagination account. During this financial programme, we purchase a 40% reduction in emissions per year average of less than 10 billion per year, or about 1 billion per 4% in contractions. Then we get 15% more contractions for an average 1 billion a year. This means that either the government prioritized costly measures that were less effective at first, or that the estimated cost is just a really bad guess. Let us assume that 10 billion are as accurate as possible. Given that the priority of projects sets the cheapest and most efficient projects first, you might expect additional projects to be less expensive or less effective. This is so to work under official financial laws. So if we're optimistic and say it costs 1 billion to get 3% contractions instead of 4% contractions, we'll see that it takes an extra 5 billion to achieve 55% cut-off goal, not just 1. That is why I suggest a change of motion to cover these 4 billion who are needed to achieve 55% contractions according to government policy. I don't doubt that the government will be happy to get better calculations on this, but the financial agenda is outlined. And then I calculate my optimism for this 3% for a billion instead of 4% for a billion, which is the mean duration for the strategy. It'll be interesting to see how it goes. But only with regard to government policy last. The main focus of government policy in the last financial program was three: 1st Public financial resistance. 2. Valuable jobs, investments, and more prosperity. 3. More efficient and sustainable public finance. A greater proportion of the legal committee added emphasis in his committee party, where he spoke of five things: 1st A blowout in the power of success in terms of government. 2. Emphasis on innovation and infrastructure. 3. We'll take it easy on people and companies. 4. Investment and prerogatives of investments. 5. A debt stopped during the scheduled period. Government policy has not improved so that the prospects for unemployment have deteriorated since the current policy has been adopted, the same policy as the proposed financial agenda for the next five years. The policy has, in fact, been very clear since the level began, the objective of the government was to wait for the epidemic, and to continue with the removal of the whales'economy through the latest whales, the tourism. It has been observed repeatedly that we need to grow out of this travel crisis. Once again, all the eggs are put in the same basket. Once it was the silenium and the fishing grounds. Then there were aluminiums and cheap energy for them. Afterward, it was the bank pool, and now it is tourists who are supposed to cover everything. The aim is to wait until the code is out and then move on, with the remainder of the government's first objective for the resistance of public funds. Italics all the Covid actions. These are lock-up grants, repair grants, support loans, gymnasium and hobbies, start jobs, income dropbacks, pay off tax pay, travel, income-related unemployment benefits, condensation pay, support for the care of disabled and chronic children, recruitment grants, payoffs, all jobs, the cut-offs, mortgages, payment and credit options. A lot of things, sounds very positive. Of course, this list of specific temporary investment initiatives, which can be taken into account, and some other measures, such as the general population, are not necessarily bound to specific Covid procedures but, of course, help. Of these measures, it is really just the special investment campaign that has been invested in the future. Other measures are to protect what was meant and to pay a fine price. The problem, however, is double; on the other hand, no one expects everything to be as it was before the code, while the economy was at the time of the epidemic. The big question, then, remains how the government's policy, that everything should be just as it was before the code, offers some resistance from the debt we have had to dig in order to keep everything floated. Another objective of the government to pursue valuable work is more empty when it comes to research. Temporary improvements in innovation, mainly reimbursement for research and development costs, are in fact done to very few large people, where not many are fully reimbursed sources. Pirata's proposal was that smaller companies could get a higher proportion of reimbursed because the cost of small companies getting funds from funds is much higher than in larger companies. We want to be more concerned about the root and the soil. The digital government, known as the head of finance, has been called Iceland 2.0, is a long time off, but at the same time long ago it has gone out of date. Iceland should have gone through the 2.0 Revolution around the turn of the century. I refer to my discussion of budgets for 2021 for a more precise review of needed progress in digital government. Selfish, public finance. It is by default to have a policy on sustainable public finances. Of course, no one wants unsuspectable public finances. What does that mean anyway? In the context of public finance, it actually means little unemployment, little inflation, that everyone has a roof over his head, and has more to do with the necessities of a community that doesn't work on common resources. It's not really complicated after all. Our goal is to ensure that our community is exactly like this: low unemployment, low inflation, roof over our heads, spending more than we need and that we are not walking on a common resource, that we are not walking on earth's resources for future generations. The role of government funds is to level the economy, and a number of methods can be used, such as the classic automatic fluctuation equations, e.g. I mean, unemployment improvements, employment insurance and basics. In addition, the government can implement specific measures that involve specific problems. In view of a financial body, it is pointed out that the underlying products of public funds had become insurmountable at the peak of the economic fluctuation in 2019 C.E. This means that we can't expect any resistance to maintain our current policy that everything should be the same as it was before the epidemic. Inevitably, something has to be changed, but as I say, everything is running out. The course expires 2023, and it is totally unforeseen what will happen thereafter, since governments do not want to extend their course. The only explanation I have is that they don't agree on the policy. There is no other explanation for that, really. It may be true that there is much uncertainty, but it is the purpose of the government to eliminate uncertainty by setting a course. Inevitably, something needs to be changed, but the existing government is setting an insurmountable policy and does not explain how it will take place. It's just that way. At the beginning of the ideal period, there were challenges that had to be faced. The obvious situation was housing, infrastructure, travel pressures, and health problems. In addition, there were several political problems, such as changes in resource matters, in carrying out the results of national law on the grounds of new constitutions and cases of corruption that had bombed earlier governments. In view of the terms of the season, it can be seen that various major issues were agreed, usually in transpiritian terms, but sometimes in spite of government cooperation, where the government side would add some votes needed to get the case through the council. At the beginning of the season, there were challenges that had to be faced. The obvious situation was housing, infrastructure, travel pressures, and health problems. In addition, there were several political problems, such as changes in resource matters, in carrying out the results of national law on the grounds of new constitutions and cases of corruption that had bombed earlier governments. In view of the terms of the year, it is possible to see that many major issues were accepted. Usually, in transpirotian terms, but sometimes in spite of government cooperation, the government's opposition added some votes needed to cover matters through the council. The government is, as it were, fully capable of showing off such matters and doing more than that, i.e. of the parapolitic issues that had come through here. Here, however, it is appropriate to mention what the government does not want to talk about. Change in the social security system could not be achieved. It continues to impair the terms and apathy of the government's affairs. It was simply hung up 4 billion carrots and said, "Please, this 4 billion will be yours if you want to work properly. " It was not achieved so that they could be taken halfway to 4 billion. A dollar against a dollar was turned into a dollar's money against a dollar's impairment. The remainder has been used for bone pay because there has been no solution to the system changes that are acceptable to people because they seem to be the only solution to the government. Changes in the media market failed. The conclusion was that a bill was adopted to give 400 billion. K. which are mainly involved in paying off the insurrection of political issues. All that means is that the design doesn't have to write the same big check for the Morning newspaper's tilt business. There were no changes in the enteric system. The results of the National Directive on the contributions of the new constitution could not be carried out on the board of directors. The domestic problem is pretty much the same as at the beginning of the season. It would take 2,200 apartments to rebuild their lack over the next ten years. Now it's 1,900 apartments a year, there's a little bit of success there. However, there is still a shortage, which means that all procedures of the government that come to meet a particular challenge for Covid - which went extremely high in the housing market that did not necessarily need it, especially in a state of need. It simply meant that housing prices were raised, and inflation began to increase and bequeen and amusing, quite classical, so there was a certain conversation to agree with. Even more was needed in this regard, despite the fact that there is an increase in housing for the sake of the Kingdom's injection in the market. But this did not happen, and the result is rising housing prices and everything that it means, which is not very positive, as we know from the beginning of the season, the same old story. The traveling overseer was able to create a small amount of room in the rented market, but it is rather predictable that the same madness will be taken back to the same madness when traveling services are back on track as there is still a lack of housing. Then there's still a flow problem at the Land Hospital, kind of funny, boring funny. In other words, the number of tasks has not been reduced during this ideal period. The same still exist, and then the epidemic is added. Nurses went back to court. A year from now, we're losing the number of pensioners. It has been 5.7% loss of social insurance pension compared to pay-offs. The biographies are not even taken into account, which is still increasing the satisfaction of those who are in the lowest pay relative to the social security pension, so it is in direct damage. Depravity continues, and government control is paralyzed at all fronts. This has been a surreal ideal period in which you need to draw out information from the defined queries because questions are not answered. The management board covers itself again and again behind the exception of information laws and again and again, and the government's defences are down. I have, for example. conducted several ongoing surveillance cases within the legal committee for several years. If answers come in late and fail to respond, they need to be asked again and wait again. From my point of view, this present government sums up: If answers come, there are answers that are not asked. It's a political outback, just like the pros there are the only songs. An example of this is found in the review of a greater portion of the legal committee on increased budgets for the environment. There I asked for a short explanation of the changes in financial resources in every subject. The majority refused to take up such explanations and refer to a prior financial program. A number of topics were reviewed, as noted in the lead-in of the chairman of the legal committee, but not all, far from it. However, as an international nation should know, the growth of financial programs and funding is not very much, and it is far from likely that changes in financial resources can be understood. So I'm trying to find out what explanation there is for the change in the budget. To that end, I refer to financial programmes and financial enforcings. This is exactly where I have a section on increased budgets for the environment. But I'm just gonna keep going over that section, there's a few of them. I'll see if I have time for this talk or if I have to review it in individual talks, as it's a bit dramatic. I wanted to go to the chapter on a course that works, the future of Pirata about a course that works. It's really very simple. Pirantars have often been spoken of as earning money and have no politics, just wanting to talk about careers and shapes. This has especially been discussed in discussions about financial planning and financial matters. Secretary of finance, e.g. critical Pirata for being technical, like it's something bad, especially when there's so much lack of follow-up, e.g. Public financial law. We simply want the laws and regulations followed by the council. It's not as good as having a good plan. I don't understand why it's bad. If you call me that, it's just great. I'll take it as a compliment. But the secretary of finance is obviously miserable, for he must abide by the laws on public finances, which I think is only humorous. Of course he should. The reason is simple, and it can be found in Pirata's basic policy, which is available to all on the Pirat website but is published here for convenience. The basic policy is the politics of Pirata. It's not about the left or the right, and many people stop understanding because it ends there with political politics. The political must somehow just be the right, the left, the middle, or something like that. Political Pirata is about critical thinking and informed policy based on transparency, responsibility, civil rights and freedom of expression and information. That is why the opaque financial program is a useless waste to Pirata's eyes and should be treated as such. I understand that critics feel that this is just an uncomfortable political romance, and they want to take mostly emotional decisions based on what they think is best and just according to general ideology that the market does everything best, or that the government does everything best, that it comes from above, or that the goal is always to increase the cookie. As I've gone over them before, the cake is just a lie, because it's just for some people. That is why it would be good for them to increase the cookie that is just for some people, a lie for everyone else. I think there's a reason to skim over Pirata's basic policy that we're all based on. We are very predictable in our politics because we can always refer to our basic policy, and we are very hard not to deviate from it. She means so much to us. It's really important that we keep it anchored because we've seen some swings in which people have to swallow vomit, etc. because, in this case, the policy of the classes is not appropriate. We want to base ourselves on our core policy, and we do our best to follow it. There's our political bitch. It begins with a critical and enlightened course, that Pirats and I stress critical thinking and well - informed decisions. That's why we left, for example. deep into the energy package case. I translated into the energy package in other languages, and I talked to Dani and Swía about whether I did not understand certain details of their translations, that they translate one thing technically but only. I went deep into it to see if the criticism that was present during that discussion was justified or not. Criticism was bullshit, so I'll use it as a simple word, excuse me. It was about a very unlikely case where it would have required repeated government failures to get to a certain location regarding lawsuits and damages, etc. The government would have had to screw up repeatedly before we could have made it in such circumstances, and you can do it without a pack of energy. Governments can easily screw up without a pack of energy, and if anything, the energy package just helps the government not to screw up by having systems and their means of managing things and keeping it clear. Another point says that in view of data and knowledge, we Piratars and I travel our course regardless of whether or not the proposal appears to be desirable at first. Pirata's view of ideas is independent of who her spokesmen are. We think it's extremely important. From that point of view, we will consider all issues. Hence, we support good issues even if they come from groups that we do not necessarily trust for the occasion. Pirat's previous decisions need to be able to reevaluate because we always get new data. Conditions change. The political must learn to do this. It may be a good marketing solution today, but bad tomorrow because the situation changed, it's just that way. We have to temporarily restrict certain rights of freedom that people expect, e.g. with a masked family, etc. Because circumstances changed, we had to make other decisions. Then things change again. The age goes, and we go back. We do not try to hold on to what has once been determined because it can become wrong when circumstances change. The right individuals to look for light should never be restricted. It involves my repeated questions that are never answered. It really pisses me off. Our second point is civil rights. We use ourselves for the promotion and protection of civil rights. This is key. We need an expansion of civil rights, which should be guided by the support of other rights. We need to protect our current rights and make sure that they are not restricted. The epidemic was under intense pressure on these issues. At that time, the current rights were definitely impaired. However, under the circumstances, if rights had not been impaired, it could have meant a loss of other rights, i.e. Total rights would have been more negative if they had not responded, e.g. with the meeting limit. This is less efficient than allowing the epidemic to go free, so there was a predictable decline in rights if not done, but a lower limit of rights if something was done to prevent it. So that selection is obvious and in line with Pirata's basic policy. We believe that civil rights belong to individuals and that the rights of each person are equally strong. There's no speciality politics in there. A third factor is privacy. It is about the protection of the power memory from the abuse of the more powerful. Those who have observed the Pirates in politics should immediately turn on how this affects our behavior and how we react to certain matters that arise before the council. Pirates believe that all individuals have the right to privacy in their private lives. For privacy, there is the right to remain secret and anonymity, and the right of self-scrupulousness. However, secrecy should never extend beyond the need to protect the individual and never to the extent that it affects other individuals. Inadequateness, however, does not have the point of launching a person out of responsibility. That's key. Although we must respect the honor of anonymity, responsibleness is important in this regard. It reflects our attitude on so many matters presented here at the council. This is Polish 101, the rights we've been fighting in the past few centuries to achieve. Its motive is so varied. The fourth thing is about transparency and responsibility. A counterclockwise is about opening the power more closely to the control of the power memory. This rhymes with that privacy is about protecting the power memory from the abuse of the more powerful. Politicality doesn't get much more than that after all. Piranians believe that transparency plays an important role in the illuminating of the public and thus qualifying for democratic decision making. Information should be available to the public. Information should be available in the open data format in the most suitable format for use with the information. For a person to be responsible, he must have the ability to make decisions. Pirates believe that everyone has an uncircumcised right to make decisions of his own matters and a right to know how such decisions have been made. Here comes our political about activating the community, listening to those who like to have something to say about the affairs around them. Therefore, proposals to take Reykjavík's decision-or-treating course on an organization, e.g. Because this is our basic policy. These are the values we want for everyone, not just the people of Reykjavík, but the whole country. The freedom of information and expression is extremely important and is the fifth thing. Limitation of people's freedom to collect and share information is unacceptable, except for the protection of civil rights. A person's freedom to express himself is unacceptable, except for the protection of civil rights. Freedom of expression can be limited. Many confuse meetings with censorship or the limit to freedom of expression. It's just bullshit. If anyone comes to my house, knocks on my door and starts to recite the Bible, I just close the door. There is no limit to freedom of expression to do so, a person who can do so at home. Finally, it is direct democracy and self - determination. Pirates believe that everyone has the right to make decisions on matters that concern them. Court is guaranteed by the strength of the direct democracy and the growth of metallurgy government. Pirates believe that there is a need to reduce media control in all areas and to directly promote democracy in the models offered. It is obvious that we would probably consider paying attention to the results of a adviser's vote on the recording of the new constitution, its contribution, because it was a direct democracy. People suggested it. That is why we even found ourselves in a national law on the matter, although we were extremely opposed to the criticism of the energy package. Even though we agreed that the energy package was a good case, we were willing to make a national payment if it reached the threshold laid for a new constitution for a number of signatures, 10%. The number of signatures was not reached, so we did not make that suggestion. We are willing to use power in the way people choose, although we disagree with the way they are done, as long as they do not violate basic human rights. We're not going to vote on kidnapping civil rights, e.g. Civil rights. That's politics Pirata, in the principle and all the conclusions she made. I find it necessary to look into this discussion, since here we are dealing with a lack of direction. We are dealing with a policy that expires in 2023, and nothing is suggested thereafter except a problem that needs to be solved in some way that is not determined. The strategy to expire 2023 is not the policy relative to the epidemic situation, it is the policy set for that condition. It's a long way from being good. I'm going to finish my talk by reviewing the adjustments I propose here. This is a summary of the 15 changes in the budget set out by the Pirantars during this terms. 1st We've suggested 50 million. K. increase to the initiatives of the chair agent and the State Reconnaissance, as they have been informed by office that they cannot take part in the initiative studies. This is a government surveillance program that is absolutely necessary for us to see if we are being treated as pigs on our rights. We do not want that to be done, we do not want the Commission to do so, and we want an agent of the Generals who will be able to observe for his own initiative when that happens. - But no, that's not cool. 2. We make 30 million. K. increase to the district attorney for increased projects. Now it has been reported that the office of the head of the tax has been laid down and brought to the local district attorney. The magnitude of the late projects, the waiting list for the district attorney, remains unchanged before the Sami case, so there is definitely reason to finance it better so that the case of the district attorney can be completed. 3. We make 30 million. K. increase to the head of state tax for tax fraud control and employment sales. 4. We contribute to the increase in economics and core files to update and improve economic information. But much has been said about our lack of timely information, and we need to do much more. 5. It is suggested that temporary efforts in innovation not be discontinued. 6th 100 million. K. ... intheRedlandMightand 100 millionth. K. ... withan independent surveillance of police work and police surveillance of man traders. 7. 120 million. K. to the Federal Protection Agency for increased projects due to the personal protection of the legislature. 5.3 billion dollars. reduction due to the collapse of parishes and the removal of the church meeting. 300 million. K. to ensure the management ground of the county bodies. 60 million. K. for an independent human rights agency. A total of less than 5 billion. reduction in this subject range. 8. 25 million. K. to the labour oce for monitoring the workforce. 9. 4 billion jar. to finance policy management in 40% reduction of greenhouse gases to 55% reduction emissions. 10. 150 million. K. in a lower maintenance phase of high school material. 11th 3.8 billion k. to meet congregations leaning Hospitals in 223 C.E. in order to maintain commitment to a business relationship with the hospital. 12th Correction of the 60th and 28th matter areas to match the rates of biographers. That's 3 billion bucks. in the subject field of 27 and 3.5 billion times. in the field of 28. They are missing the 5.7% increase in social security pensions over the pay period. 13th Then there's 100 million. K. to meet the government's counterproduction for the reimbursement fund. 14th 12 billion for housing, i.e. to new buildings, sales, and rented apartments, in the form of stocks, and increased production into housing partnerships. This is to compensate for the lack of housing, i.e. when it really needs to be injected, don't just have to rise. It needs to be the equation there on supply and demand. 15th And finally, 7.5 billion francs. to eliminate a dollar's impairment. This is a review of the issues we have been stressing on in terms of spending money. There are some on the business too, i.e. an increase in personality discounts, etc. I've been thinking about whether I should also make up for the changes I made in this regard. It may have to be recalculated a bit, but I'll see if I can get it, maybe I'll come back later today or first thing in the morning. President. I'll finish this part right here, and then I'll go back to my rosary, to take a closer look at the additional budgets for the subject in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for him a fine example for members of a committee that, as expected and cited, is based on experience in a job on a legal committee for several years. I'm going to interrupt the first part of his talk, where he discussed employment prospects. I know we're in this position today because things have been in no way normal. When we need to use data that are primarily extrapolation, we also need to understand some sense of what the situation will be like. The chairman of the budget board, what? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, did this in some way to talk about his background here. I'd like a year ago to answer my question. A senator to discuss this from the fact that in this difficult situation - we are seeing the warmth of the word's full meaning, including the weather, and publish - we believe that our resistance can be powerful and intense. Let me discuss this in my next talk. My answer to what? A senator is, I think that's what he is. A senator has to admit that we have done well and that we have responded very well to conditions that have been in the economy. Our actions have reduced the impact that we faced over a year ago. Well, maybe. A senator did not say that with the data we have, there is really no better look into the future and that the numbers, including About the unemployment, does it show? Well, maybe. A senator also did not say that in spite of everything, we were successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u55	A respectable president. I am highly committed to being reasonable. I give strong criticism, but I also accept what is being done well in such cases. And, yes, I'll agree that the results of the disease prevention procedures and, in fact, the waiting times have been quite good. I'd give him about nine in a grade to try to be fair, I'd pull it out of the hat like that. What I've criticized and said is that missing is what happens. The policy was always set for the economy just to take over, that we put everything on break, and then everything would start over the way it was. In fact, nothing other than what has been presented has really been said. I considered it in my speech only how the special investment process was the one thing that was building up for the future, one of the benefits that we could earn after the completion of Covid. Not all of the procedures under which the wait took place were successful. They weren't new, so, the mortgages, etc. The state responsibility was a Šdisasaster, and maybe I'll lower the score to eight because of that, who knows? I've been complaining about the lack of structure. If we are to grow out of the decline, it is not enough simply to rely on traveling overseers to do so alone. The situation there was a problem before the epidemic. I think we're going to grow out of this situation with the rest of the travel service together, for example. Just the volcano. I'm sure it'll help a lot and attract even more tourists next year than we're expecting. But we need more. [[The president calls.]] It's always been known. I'm criticizing that these growing innovations are missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He established tenures and housing issues. His political movement is involved in more parts here in Reykjavík, and the bank manager has recently made a comment about planning for the organizational affairs here, heading for property projects, in this way it is directly affecting real estate and real estate prices. For this, I see an interview with the head of the Homemaker in the News magazine today, so I'll allow myself to witness to that fact, i.e. that the lack of property in the capital area is creating problems in a real estate market, thus lifting up in a certain way under an apartment prices in the country. Then I would like to mention that it is naturally very important that governments act, whether governments or towns, unite together. I want to know what's wrong. A senator agrees with the words of the bank manager to pursue more than a part of his political movement as part of an economic problem that he says the government will leave unsolved at the end of the term.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u57	President. No, I don't agree with that, and I'll try to explain why. No more apartments have been built here before, and an apartment building record is being added to. Thus, the city of Reykjavík is doing its thing. Yeah, we've been working on it. Part of the reason is that building far and wide is so expensive. Then a whole new neighborhood must be built up, which is also costly. When we consider this in the context of the fact that the city of Reykjavík has been adding most of its apartments, if we are to talk about how the government's policy deals with each other, we also need to examine how things are going around the country. It has, for example, been found there. lacks the development in other rural areas to build up apartments that the rural communities have been calling for. There's a problem with housing all over the country, not just in Reykjavík. Reykjavík does its part, but it has been missing in many other parts of the country. Not everyone is working on this together, and that means there's still a shortage. Considering this, unless the bank manager is looking only in Reykjavík, he will not resist the criticism. But she's not all responsible for building apartments. There are others who are responsible for that too, including the government, including housing contributions. So no, I don't accept these criticisms for the reasons I mention, and I can't see that they're indiscriminate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u58	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The wife of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, has a fine speech and thank him for his cooperation. It's a legal committee. It may not be strange that I'm going to have something like that. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who was before answering back. A senator. Hv. A senator identified how we will proceed with a financial program of 20222/226 that will indeed fail outside the ideal period of this government, but it is a recalculation of a new release programme from December which will fall on the final year of this government and the budget rests upon them. It provides detailed policy measures based on revised policy since September. I ask, Is it not reasonable to look for such things to be done? It's a bit technical, of course. The laws on government finance are not completely clear on how we handle this in the election year. But don't you want to turn it around and say: If there had been a detailed policy in the next terms - and a new government would, yes, set up its policies and build the budget and reexamine a plan of 20231⁄2027 and the budget of that government rests on it - would it not have been a little unfair if we turned this around? Can we also say that this is a bit of an honest approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u59	President. That's not what I was criticizing. I can live with the government coming and saying, "We're not going to add anything to a future policy because we're not going to be together in the future, we're just going to vote next time, and then we're gonna decide what's going to happen. We have stopped creating a common policy because we have stopped working together. After all, that means it. If the government is really working together, it is creating long - term plans to eliminate financial uncertainty. There was a law on public financial matters at first. I criticize that there is no need for environmental policies that will update the development of measurable targets. It's missing. I want to know how it went to reach measurable goals in 2020. It's missing, we have nothing to do with it. We'll get that from the next month's Minister's annual report - great. We are making decisions about government funds and policies in a financial programme, and then we want to know how governments and the measures to achieve government policy work out before we decide whether to continue to finance them. I'm criticizing how the government can come and say, "We've just stopped making policy for this election period because we don't get together anymore. It's okay, it's just a matter of business. But it wasn't, it wasn't said, it wasn't yet, and asked, "Can we just skip it? Yes, that's fine, but can you please update your policy? There's not something I'm willing to give off a discount. Of course, financiership should be placed in charge of the impact on government projects and policies. There's no need, and I'm critical.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is a little misunderstanding, isn't it? The programme we agreed on in December is based on the same policy that is reflected in this program. It's the same course that's behind these plans. It shows a very detailed approach to policy development, how it is published, and how it is being developed in the topic areas. Whether this is clear enough is such a second discussion. I know why. A senator has severely criticized, and I am able to agree with the criticism, that we need to improve in setting standards to see if our policy will be successful. It's a little heavy that we have to wait for every Ministry report, every Minister, and they come in the middle of the year, and then we're all in a campaign, etc. There's a lot of things in this cycle that we need to make a better impression on, I agree with that. Hv. A senator made the climate goal his subject and the standards we need to see there. The December program has brought us into good condition. That is a very interesting presentation, and there are six of the underlying goals, including On climate issues and there are standards that can be used. My question is, how is it? A senator - I felt at once at a talk. A senator that there was a common harmony - that we use this process better to grasp the standards we would so like to receive from the budget?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u61	President. It's okay for the government to say, "We're off course. " Here's the same policy again, updated. Of course, I also criticize government policylessness in this condition, just to highlight the difference. I find it challenging to apply the same policy, although it shows itself to be understood, e.g. not successful in business. However, there have been several steps taken until elections, which should have a positive effect that is only fine. As far as the prosperity policy is concerned, it is a powerful approach to how we should work public finances. This is a project which has been in OECD for a very long time, ▪wellboneg economy, translated as a prosperous society. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson began to call it a miserable economy, and somehow it felt that it was so inconsolable, so said. This explains a basic school attitude toward studies responsible for the methodology of the economy. It provides guidelines for success in public finances in matters of interest to the public, not just in interest of interest and larger cakes. What is the situation in housing? What's the situation in the health system? What balance is there between life and work in people in general? How do public finances affect these standards? That governments in front of themselves have a standard of housing conditions affects how governments use public financial resources to achieve success according to the standards to which the government is to submit to the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u62	Mr. President. When it comes to economic management, there are many challenges ahead. There is a high exchange of public funds, unemployment is highest, inflation is not measured higher since 2013, and a growing process has begun. For some years, vast financial resources have many negative consequences for national and national preparations. Clearly, the debt of state funds continues to grow greatly over the years. As I say, growth is a key factor in public debt, and as far as growth is concerned, growth is increasing. The fiscal measures are not described in the financial program proposed by the government. In addition, national production over the next four years must be increased in order to maintain the economic quality of life prior to the economic breakdown following the viral epidemic. The population's currency needs to be increased, creating thousands of new jobs. Economic growth in Iceland has been more aggressive than that of our neighbors, leaving the economy small and open. A breakdown in our largest sector, the tourism service, has had a significant impact on economic growth and its development. The budget is the last thing this government offers. It is unusual in this way so that the current budget for five years was adopted at the General Assembly of December 17. The underlying policy measures are materially unchanged for the 35 economic sectors and 103 financial classes that will not contribute to the material changes in the core financial agenda to the next year. So this is not, in effect, a traditional financial program. The overall pattern is in place, but the breakdown of conventional financial programmes is not published. The clearance of policy must be clearly seen. So this financial strategy is not set up, as the law indicates. There is no clear need for policy issues. In fact, it is never more important than it is now that we are aware of it. The plan is an excellent economic overview but does not change the importance of improving all of this, i.e. anything to live by law. So the discussion about this financial plan is really just about the economy, nothing about how the classes work. Therefore, there is a serious problem with this strategy that it does not follow fully-up policies. Here is a financial program, where it is decided to take out the topic areas and thus take out what should be the opposite of the political discussion. For the next five years, a financial plan is to guide the nation in economic matters. Lights out of the crisis, out of the crisis. This plan should show us how the government groups envision the challenges we face. Sadly, they lack a lot of resources. The second chapter of the plan contains wonderful promises that there will be no cutting - down, and chapter 3 will then discuss reducing the debt rate of a state fund, which runs across the view of balance. In the case of growth in prices, the development of the plant needs to be carefully monitored in our current situation. Large inflation can have a very bad effect on the homes in the country, and there are indications that the land is rising. The systematic development of the economy results in instability and a growing inflation. Here is where the golden road needs to be balanced. It is important that the public does not push out private investors by means of their activities on loan markets and more on the interaction of financial policy and financial policies in this financial program. As I mentioned, financial guidelines have been set aside and the values of the baseline values, i.e. Sustainableness, caution, stability, firmness and transparency are particularly important in this financial programme, where these financial rules have been put aside. There is a lack of focus on baseline values in financial programmes. The result of a lack of enthusiasm for baseline levels may reduce policy measures. When this is very uncertain, even speculations about different ways will lead to more important goals than long - term planning. It is important that options are offered, their sacrifices, and other matters of opinion. It serves the baseline law on public finances. Low growth, power gain and specific Covid-19 activities have supported homes and companies. However, the economic crisis has failed in a balanced way to different groups, which not all have benefited from this trend. I believe, Mr. President, there was a lack of realism in terms of economic improvement in this program. The plan assumes that economic recovery will be at once this year, 2.6% in the current year, growing by 4.8% in 2022. Then accounts for 2.8% increase in land production up to 2026. The number of jobs in both tourism and other sectors of the economy is increasing. From the point of view, the outlook is positive, and a positive outlook is always good, but it is not to be taken lightly as to whether this plan is a matter of reality. The key premise behind the economic benefits proposed is that 720 thousand tourists come to the country this year with the related growth of exports. There is a lower prospect if that requirement fails. It has been shown by the traveling agency at a meeting with a financial committee that this is an optimistic view of the government, that this projection of a number of tourists is being carried out. The growth of tourism may be a basis for economic improvement in the coming years as planned, but it is unrealistic to assume that the years 2022 and 2023 are coming here 2 million tourists. Realism must exist in that subject. The situation in the viral epidemic around us is unlikely to go on. The plan shows that if there is a delay in the arrival of tourists, further measures are necessary if one is to stay in balance with 2025 in debt. There is, however, no further discussion of the nature of these provisions. In the recent years, the Federal Bank's fruit of air quality has been reduced to help companies and households cope with economic recession, and that is well. The financial agenda assumes that it will continue to become a low-growing environment. I don't think that's practical, Mr. President, as we already have. A growing process is already under way, so it can be said that already there is a vital reason for this strategy to smile. Discussion of financial programmes should be successful and targeted. It's supposed to be about practicality and efficiency. She won't. In fact, this last financial programme of this government is only an economic statement. After the election, we begin a new era, a new financial policy and a financial program. A new government will not be a part of this program. But it is normal to discuss these things, and this program shows that the government groups intend to adopt a methodology that is of little consequence to my judgment. They do not show the cards when it comes to these important topics. It is the vision they offer to the people of the land when there are four months in the election. A vision of the future marked by ambitiousness. The objective of government action is to create jobs and to increase the value of companies. That's how we improve the standard of living. I think most people would agree that the unemployment, the struggle against unemployment, is reducing it, the biggest problem ahead of years, to overcome unemployment. I must say at the moment, Mr. President, that this financial program does not shake the thousands of Icelanders'hopes that are out of work. It's not being handled here. Iceland's National Institute of Economics will expect the next year's substantial unemployment. Based on projections, the unemployment level in this country is increasing. Rather than having a natural unemployment problem, it is estimated to be 4◯5%. A continuing unemployment level will cost state funds around 40 billion dollars. Annually throughout the period, which is doubled to what was estimated to be the case for the appearance of the Korean epidemic. These are huge amounts, and in this context, we need to consider what experience and education demand is left in the labour market and how to support those who are unemployed in order to gain that experience and education. It needs to ensure that there is a good information flow in the labour market to minimise the job search time. It is important that the labour market balance and unemployment benefits are an incentive to hire and get a job. There has been a reduction in education in Iceland. In addition, although Iceland does spend relatively large amounts of money on basic education compared to other countries in OECD, this is not reflected in the effectiveness of students in PISA comparative tests. In view of knowledge in reading, science, and mathematics, Icelandic 15 - year - old students now have their way of walking, and that situation has just gotten worse. This situation does not prepare for future economic growth, and it needs to be handled severely so that we do not face the disaster of heavy unemployment. The lack of employment varies from country to land, and up to twice as high in the South as it is in other parts of the country. During the current year, 7.8% of unemployment is expected to decline slowly in the next few years, according to the Habitat assessment. At the end of the season, or 2026, it'll be less than 5%. That's five years from now. Such unemployment is similar to that in the unemployment age of 1993◯1995 and is unacceptable. It's very important to take this action. If there is a variation in the predictions of unemployment, the necessary measures need to be taken, as the plan says. It would obviously be uncomfortable for the government for a year of election when there are only a few months of election. We may face a massive cut to get the debt laid on us. In an interesting report by the European Union of Iceland, the Icelandic workforce 2020, there is a number of countries in the United States. pointed out how unemployment has increased before the virus epidemic spread and that the percentage of passive youths has increased. The trend in labour markets suggests that in recent years there has been an increase in systematic unemployment, and thus Icelanders will have a higher level of unemployment than they should get used to. Of course, that's a lot of concern, Mr. President. The financial adviser makes this development a subject of his review: A condition where a number of jobseekers have a poor match for the available job vacancies is described in the case of a critical unemployment. Thus, people have no work for longer periods of time, but there is the reality of a finder's absence, which is a temporary condition in which people work between jobs. In its most serious form, systematic unemployment leads to the complete disappearance of an individual from a workforce with its own negative consequences and community. The government has to implement further measures to deal with the unemployment problem and prevent long - term lack of work. This is where the companies in this country play the key role. I'm just going to review how important it is for us to improve with all the available resources of the business environment in the country, because they are the key to growing up here and working on unemployment. It should be the primary objective of this programme to improve the company's work environment because it has to do with the big challenge, the second objective, to overcome unemployment. The enterprise has to be able to expand and thrive so that it has room to increase the number of staff. Everyone's advantage is that they get the support they need in order to create jobs. International institutions, such as the World Cash Fund, the World Bank, and OECD, point out that the most successful way for communities and their economy is to grow out of economic problems. Public funds will be used to reduce unemployment, to increase jobs in cooperation with the private enterprise, and to promote the growth of the private enterprise, the growth of businesses in the country. This is the benefit of all those who are looking for a job. During the financial programme, a competitive environment that attracts people and businesses must be established. The growing mind - working industry is better known. Ireland, which is not far away from us, has received a foreign investment, which accounts for 26% of exports from sources of data and software. The rules here on land are too complicated and hovering. The practicality can be increased by reducing the budget of an enterprise, e.g. ... witha reduction in insurance bills and real estate taxes on a job house. It's coming even. conducted in the review of the Industrial Association, but the organization visited the Committee and issued a very good report. A temporary reduction in the insurance bill is positive. I'm not cutting it at all. The middle class, however, has emphasized the need for a permanent reduction in the insurance. The payment of pay would increase the size of companies and make it easier for them to increase the number of employees when there is an urgent need. The middle class has proposed changes in the budget of reducing the insurance budget, which has sadly been dropped. Further reductions in insurance costs are necessary for an Icelandic labour market. It is necessary to promote the company's work environment and to promote the competitiveness of the country. A great total need is when it comes to investments in infrastructure projects. Apply as much as possible to these tasks. There's no reason to be afraid of the arrival of a private driver. Thus, the government does not have to give the proportion of more money on such projects but can focus on basic services and downplaying the balance of government funds. Pension funds are interested in making investments in infrastructure, and governments are expected to take advantage of it. I must say, Mr. President, I feel a little strange what has been said about how little has been said about the pensions coming to the necessary resistance here in the economy. There has been little talk about how powerful they are in that relationship and what they could do to benefit themselves. In the construction industry, there is a particular lack of counterargument in economic management, such as the availability and demand for housing. There's nothing to be expected of. There's no heat. There's a complex work of order. We face inflexibility and delays. A simple environment of construction and construction is needed because there is a lack of property and perspective on the group of liters. The current construction environment is incorruption, and excessive rule loads also add to complexity. Prosperities are long and time - consuming. The planning process is too heavy, I have experience with it myself, and it takes way too long to get a permit. This, in turn, reduces the strength of a roof over the head and wants to go its own way and uses his survival efforts to establish his house. When people are constantly waiting for the license and the presentation, they are easily weakened. A shorter period of payment must be ensured and ablation of planning conditions that lead to increased costs and loss of housing and inhibition of innovation. In this regard, industrial organizations have pointed out. The government has to deal with this. That takes action. This has been discussed many times, but nothing has been done to deal with the problem. In fact, the common policy of industry and the government is missing. There is an increasing need for research in the construction industry. As a result, the environment seems to rule out research on non-individual components of construction or the development of building materials, while overall research, which appears to have been subject to national profits. The effects of mold in housing include to be very costly to the nation, as well as to the wealth of the state. It even came. ... inconsistencies to my inquiry to the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs that it turns out to be a government fund very expensive in the housing of the state's funds. I think we must realize that the key to our fight is the intense pursuit of employment. Recycling the economy, which focuses on the tourism that is a pillar, is not exactly the wisest way to go. We cannot rely so much on the one industry that has been hit by the enthusiasts we know. Therefore, it is very important to have a variety of employment issues. It has been suggested that jobs in tourism do not become the same as those before the viral epidemic that they will reduce their number. So we need to improve the quality of the sector that we have here. This has also been pointed out by industrial organizations. New creation is a word that we often hear, and it is one of the main prerequisite for growth in the production of values, competitiveness, and subsidies of corporations and nations. Procreation of commercial life lays the foundation for the creation of highly valued and sought - after jobs for the future. The increase that has taken place in innovation is truly important, and hopefully it will bring us the expected increase of values. But we must also realize that donations for innovation are a little long - range, not returning what we want them to return until a certain period of time. But it is necessary to increase the number of support that are the driving force in the payment of the nation's population, and that's what we've given a lot of emphasis in the Middle Party. I have to say, Mr. President, after reviewing this financial program and being put on a budget that will soon end in this election, I feel that there is a lack of profit. In fact, I've taken this conversation with the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, and in many respects he agrees with me in that regard. It is important to talk about the success of budgeting, the success of previous funding, the debate on how the public can trust that public funds will be used wisely, and how to evaluate and measure the results. Success is measured not merely by expenses but by the type of service being performed. Of course, this is the subject of long discussions. I'm not going to do any further research here, but it's very important that the budget, the General, know the results of the budgets. It is impossible to place money on a fixed project without any success in a financial program. The financial strategy to which this should focus on quality and clear progress measures and overview of them should be used. I'm just going to step aside to an increase in climate, which is in this strategy, which is precisely in line with the effectiveness criteria and results. The financial agenda covers environmental and climate issues, as set out in box 11, where there is an overview of a 10 billion increase in spending on climate. To 2031. As we shall see in this discussion, the aim of Iceland is to make its upcoming commitments to climate change since June 2020. The central category agree that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced, and globally, the project is very important. In fact, in recent decades the struggle has been very effective, including the U.S.A. the use of renewable energy, while about 90% of total housing is created by heating, for example, and is the unique globality of our environmentally-friendly electricity. So it is clear that Iceland is a success in this series of litigators. There is no policy, however, in promoting increased donations for climate change in the programme. There's a 1 billion raise here. every year to the next ten years. However, we do not know what this increase will bring. Nothing will tell. The increase is not measured. Such goals can hardly be considered ambitious. It is a spontaneous and natural requirement for government funding to be reputed, that there is a prerequisite value for funding to the seminary to produce results. This must be clear in what work to take action. V.E.G. The environmental minister has just in queries, verbal and written words that it is difficult to measure the results in these topics. To increase expenses by 10 billion dollars. and unable to measure the results completely unacceptable and not consistent with policy measures to increase expenses when the results cannot be measured. Whether governments have not been able to develop good standards and data that enable humans to measure success or have no success. I think it's natural that these things are okay with playing so much money. For example, in 2022 it will be. The amount of money in the budget for climate change, or the amount of 13.3 billion. This is a lot of money, and the requirement that this financial plan follow a careful report or table showing results, what we are getting for this money. Natural solutions to climate change will be considered. However, there is no clear explanation. During the years 2022/2031, 3.7 billion should be set. in them. These natural solutions must be answered and the results obtained. I'm going to move next to the operations the government has issued, and the Central Party has supported most of these measures, due to the epidemic. The effectiveness of the government's policies for the virus epidemic, up to tens of billions, has not been reported in the program, despite the fact that government law on public financial matters guarantees the success of these measures. The government's actions were characterized by a number of despair and were not well prepared, as we saw so clearly when determined companies began to take advantage of such measures as the partial reforms without needing them. This was simply an insufficient preparation of the law. The contribution system yielded to the desired results, and the country has taken out a far greater amount of its special property than the government expected. In March last year, one of the main actions the government introduced in March was to provide payment to facilitate additional loans to companies. This was to be done so that the government made an agreement with Iceland's Shared Bank to provide loans with greater resources to provide additional corporate allowances, in the form of bridge loans, which had suffered significant loss of income because of existing circumstances. In short, this procedure, which was thoroughly introduced by the government, arrived late and ill, and then was at the point of failure and lack of interest. The success of the government is very variable. Some have lived up to expectations and others have not. Now it is time for a reevaluation of action to be re-established to answer whether it has been successful and to what extent it has been successful to measure the results. Whether the government has any plans to measure the results is unclear. One of the main objectives is to stop the growth of the debt ratio so that by 2026 it will be below 60%. One should be tailored to reach that conclusion. This is despite the fact that unemployment is the biggest problem ahead, as previously said. BSRB points out that it is important to support the economy, but it does not reduce them with an unwise goal of losing debt. At some point a debt collection must be stopped, but the economy needs to be taken into account, not in advance. The Hall of Action will be 223 billion. During the next year and 151 billion in 2023, the plan allows for a gradual improvement in the proportion of the state's funds and a positive balance to be achieved in 2025. The debt should reach a maximum of 2025 and be about 54% of gross domestic product instead of 60%, expected in the last financial programme. A financial committee points out that it is important for the state's funds to avoid taking such strict measures as the plan would expect. The recommendation also shows that the government's budget has dropped substantially over the past few years and will remain somewhat stable as a proportion of GDP during the programme period, or from 1.8% of GDP to 1.9% in the period despite a substantial increase in debt. It might be considered more likely that the government's risk assessment of the debt, how likely there will be another economic crisis during the financial period and the importance of it in relation to the current debt. There are no major revenue measures in the schedule, despite the decrease in income. It is submitted without a guarantee of income to seal the angle of a government fund. The overall balance of interest costs continues. There's a lot of sides in numbers. The budget assumes a cut-off. In 2022, 2% of the public agencies and 0.5% of the medical institutions, aging institutions, and schools will be conducted. During the period of 2023/026, 1% of general health and aging institutions, schools, courts, reform systems, and health insurance will be maintained. Then there will be an additional 15 billion dollars. Each year, in the years 20231⁄22025. No further expansion is being done. These measures should be combined at about 34 billion dollars. 'Europe's recovery in the year 203/52025, but it can be expected that there will be overindulging, as it reports that the public spending will be intended to grow more slowly than the domestic product. ASI warns that overemphasis on reducing the debt of a state's debt can slow the economic recovery and maintain a lot of unemployment. Interestingly, when it comes to tithing of the state funds and the weaknesses of the land, a review of the financial Council was made. The Council noted that the weaknesses in living things were light, and financial plans were badly kept within policy frameworks, even in a great swing. I did a little cross-checking with what I had to say. Senator and chairman of the budgetary committee, Willum Þór Þórsson. It is quite obvious that it has been a failure to keep this policy, even in a tremendous circle. It has to be said at the moment that there is a little blame for the financial administration of this government. ASI emphasizes that it is important to consider the maintenance of income institutions in the coming years so that a natural reversal can be achieved in the government business without an incision on society's infrastructure. The People then consider the Common Union to be a reason to criticize, in part, the tax changes that the government has considered as top priority in a deep economic crisis. ASI specifically mentions a decrease in the bank tax. In this regard, it is interesting to see how much banks have gained and how they are arranged. Anion bank gains, e.g. About $12.5 billion. Last year, however, it is necessary to quit 20 people. We have not seen that the banks are reducing their service fees, despite a decrease in bank tax and better living. The fact is that the private consumption of the public homes in the country softened the economic recession. The economist estimates that GDP has declined by 6.6% last year, i.e. Deep economic recession, but smaller than the analysts feared. It is the homes that are in debt and spending their savings. The key to this failure is widespread housing investment and other public spending. Thus, the homes'financial standing in the way of the crisis, which has been of great importance, is practical. Homes have been able to support consumer expenses, including due to lower growth and by postponing the loans and taking out the special requirements. Private consumption was only decreased by 3.3% last year, but when compared, private consumption was combined by an average of 10% per year following the 2008◯2009 economic collapse. There's a big difference. It should be kept in mind, though, that the economic crisis of the virus epidemic has affected the homes of the country. Those who have kept a job have been able to use low - interest environments and live under economic conditions and greater financial resources. On the other hand, those who have lost their jobs have suffered a massive loss of income. Since then, special areas have been affected, such as the Southnes, with 3,600 out of work in April. I'm just gonna come in at the end, now the time is getting shorter, the directors of nurses who are still very uncertain. The financial programme expects investment in a set number of nurses, but less is involved in how to run this space. The budget of the nursing homes, in the opinion of the Organization for Health Services, is as much as 4 to 6 billion dollars. and are the biographies then taken, and the workweek is shortened, which has been costly. We're heading toward a speed-farming situation in nursing homes, not the government's getting ahold of the problem. This program presents a series of types of investments that are not visible. Thus, you will find meaningful statements in this program. It is very important to me and our Middle Class to pay the street of foreign investments in the country. The financial program discusses a direct foreign investment, and it says that direct foreign investment is important to us. Therefore, governments are to remove the obstacles of foreign investments in this country. How, though, does this really come about in this country, and how has the government been successful when it comes to foreign investments? In view of the number of two tax contracts made in Iceland, it becomes clear that they are far fewer than our neighboring nations have. A recent report by State and Development Minister on International Affairs, stated that Iceland has only made 45 double tax contracts at the same time that Denmark has made 76 contracts, Norway 87, The Netherlands 95, and Britain 126. The effectiveness of Iceland in this sector is unacceptable and misplaces the competitiveness of Icelandic companies because bi-folding contracts are very important. The Foreign and Development Minister has acknowledged that Iceland has not been sufficiently successful in this regard. The trade organization, in its discussion, says that governments might consider making clear their interest in the direct foreign investment and construction of new industry on the one hand and on the other, working on needed reforms to eliminate obstacles to such structure. Mr. President. An election is close, with its financial plans. The government's finances need to be handled for the next year. There is still widespread uncertainty about economic development and unemployment. Governments need to consider how their actions will affect the development of competitive employment, employment markets, and property prices, as well as how success and inflation will develop in the interaction of money policy and government of public finance. The crisis of the next government awaits the economic situation, as it were, that the problem was considered in the next terms. In order for public funds to not land on hooks and inflation no further, economic growth needs to be much worse after the end of the viral epidemic. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is now, we may not be able to do so. I hope it's not going to be a test.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent speech, Þórarinsson's Birgir offer, and at the same time thank him for his cooperation. It's a legal committee. It's very tempting to discuss here in a practical way, but I'm going to let it go for a while. We've been through this a lot before. A senator entered his talk. I hope that no one understands it so that there's some kind of fuss going on here, but we on this work committee are often looking to a set of standards, and we want to do better, and then we often feel as if we're running after it, just to do it, calling out for information, by reviews, meeting guests, listening, getting a firm hold of the expenses offered, etc. We really want to make things right, and I think everybody's on it. I was going to come in like a dog. A senator made it a subject of his talk, how the economic development could become possible. That's when we're looking at the travel service. There's been a lot of debates here. A senator accepted this project, solved long - term noncooperative work, and failed to accept the predictions that appear at about 5% unemployment even when the manufacturer is gone. Then I'll come to it with the tourism, and that's what I did. A senator also, with the products - manned, business, manufacturing tools, and, of course, the resources that are largely part of the tourism service - ruined. [[The president calls.]] It is inevitable that in order to get real resistance, we need to initiate travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the Board of Sheep, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for the counter-sponsore and would like to use this opportunity and thank him for his cooperation with the Committee, which has been very good and enjoyable. I'd like to agree that the tourism service is very important to us, and it's been our biggest industry in the past year until the crash, the virus epidemic. Of course, many jobs have to do with tourism, and we are making use of natural resources. A senator rightly mentioned, everything is right. Senator. But I am stressing that now at this critical point, if we can put it that way, when this has been a real shock, especially in the largest part of the nation's industry, we must just look around and think: we must strengthen other jobs to get more balance in our sectors. What if there was another trauma involving the tourism? It is unwise in my opinion to be so dependent on one particular industry. Then I specifically mentioned in my talk that we should start caring for the economy, fostering the education of young people, that they get the education they need, and encouraging education so that they can get into other jobs, perhaps directly related to the nation's largest professions. All of this is of great importance, but the point is that it is unwise to have one industry so vast that it brings us so much export. [[The president calls.]] It is simply necessary not to wear all the eggs in the same basket; we know that saying, when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator responds and agrees wholeheartedly with him. This helps us to see that the importance of the export service is high and that is why we felt a sharper downturn than in other areas. We may also experience sharper fluctuations that are not drawn into financial programs. This is evident by the economic wind and the way vaccinations come forward, etc. I think that's what we're talking about. In his speech, a senator met his head by talking about innovation, research, evolution, the wand, the pioneers, the branches of knowledge. The relevance of these initiatives in exports is very important to the future, and this reduces the impact of transport to this extent, without leaving us anything in building up a powerful tourism service. That's what I think is a very important part of the future project. Hv. A senator entered the insurance fee, which is a large government fund team. It's money for government funds, and it's the cost of professional living. It has been a constant pressure to cut down on the insurance bill for a long time, and that is understandable. This is a cost to the job life, but this is an important currency fund that finances very important factors, such as pension and accident insurance, the birth holiday reserve, etc. and into two things. I'm just going to draw attention to a very tricky box in this program, where it is announced that the insurance bill can deliver its function in a transparent, economic, and sustainable way needs to be revised in these institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u66	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's request on the insurance bill is correct. A senator must consider the source of the money. It's part of my opinion to try to find ways to reduce the budget on the companies because they really matter to us now, that they have all the space they can have to hire people at work. This is the key to our getting off and working against the unemployment problem. Besides the fact that unemployment causes mental problems for natural families, there are many consequences that often and often are not discussed. It also costs a substantial amount of money. So there are many things we can do to help our employers to make them stronger during this year's journey and to hire people for work. I mentioned a foreign investment, that we pay the street of foreign investments in the country. There are many things that can be added to that process, making us more attractive as a country so that foreign investments come here. I named the mind-work industry, which is a very growing industry, e.g. correspondent in Ireland Here's a clue to the software industry and data studios, etc. But there is a great rivalry among other nations when it comes to getting these companies in here. But we also have a lot of resources. We have this green energy that grows ever more valuable and so on. These are great opportunities that we have to attract to the company that can hire people for work. All of this matters, and all of us are expected to work on this same goal, making the environment attractive to companies so that they can hire people for work and pay them well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u67	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for his history for the commission. I have much to say about the words he gave from a symposium on his vision of economic developments and what action to take in the near future. Many of this is the immediate task that we have discussed so extensively at the moment. In the past few weeks, we are no less faced with a financial committee when we are in this place during the pandemic. And now I say, at last, and hopefully it's lighting up. Last year, my answer to what. A senator would like to give an answer without a direct question. Of course, we can agree that planning and analysis are very difficult in such uncertainty times. But, hey. In his speech, a senator stated that they had failed to follow a success assessment and that the results of the actions taken by the government could not have been clearly recommended because of the epidemic and the immediate crisis we are facing. Then I think, at the highest. President, that I can object that the prospects we had over a year ago, about detoxification of land production, about the development of the economy, about the development of the state's income stocks, have been less successful, i.e. The results were predicted to be 10.4% contractions, approximately 6%. To me, it's a measure of success for the measures we've taken. In addition, the first month's donation shows better outcomes for the government funds on the side than we anticipated to be paying the budget in the fall. Well, maybe. A senator did not, at least, agree that this is some kind of a test of success?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, I can say some of that, it's right next to him. A senator, of course, is relevant, and we in the central class have supported them. But my input is that we get to see the actual result of the test. For example, the amount of money was being determined on a particular project that was not being carried out. For example, I'll mention the travel present. I think it's still about that. half a billion left of the amount planned for the trip. But when it comes to these matters, this is once so - and I mentioned them in my speech, my name. A senator - that later reveals that it is the private consumption that has made a big difference in the circumstances in which we have been living. I think it plays a major role that the contractions weren't 10%, but it was 6%, like what happened. A senator correctly came in. Of course, the measures are important. I may also be looking at this in a somewhat larger context when it comes to overall success, that we with the funds should be able to see it, when we are deciding to place large amounts of money on certain items, the result of that operation. We saw, for example. When part of the improvement process came, of course, it was important to many families, but we also saw that she was abused. Then you might ask yourself, " Could this not be quite well prepared if it could be done in this way? ' [[The president calls.]] So complete, I think we agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that we need to try to look more at the results in general when it comes to making donations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u69	Mr. President. I agree, to a large degree, with what? A senator in what he ended up his first answer. On the other hand, I would also like to say that when you take action as lightly as you were, you may not always be able to see how these actions work. I think all we have to do is admit that sometimes there was a launch, sometimes under fire. I think, under these circumstances, it is normal to recognize that it was and just process it. But the times and solutions were not taken from the trees, at least not the solutions. In my second answer to a talk. I'm going to go to the section of the Senate that dealt with orderliness. It discussed why. A member of the council of the industry, which I agree with the senator, was very good. It's these long organizational procedures and this heavy - metal system that are some sort of coronary block of normal economy, building up and applying in my mind, so I get a bit poetic. I agree with what. A senator that is exactly what we must do; to simplify this system and make it more efficient. Then I'd like the second answer to what. A senator is simply asking him to go into them to see how he can simplify it. We have specific responsibilities and privileges, but we need simplicity and efficiency. What has a what? A senator making an effort to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think I know, and I'm confident that we have a similar interest in simplifying this principle, which is very important when it comes to, for example. Buildings, applying for permission, organizational matters, etc. Many of them turn to their societies. Because of what? A senator specifically asks what can be done for me, e.g. In short, for example, there are various deadlines that I think might be cut short. I also think it is necessary to have a good conversation with the local community on this matter, that the government is simply taking part in appointing a team of rural communities to simplify this group and make people whom they would like to build their homes and homes without having to go through a process that could take one or two years. Other than that, they have construction contractors who are involved in this also complaining about slow access to these licences. It's expensive to society. For example, a few years ago, I applied to build a specific building by my country partner. It took me 17 months to get a building permit, 17 months. It cost me dearly because it was important to me that I could have finished that building sooner. There are many examples of this. It's just too long. I think people are getting stuck in all kinds of details that don't matter. It may also be a matter of education, that those involved in these matters, those on the construction committees of the rural society, etc., are well informed about the importance of the relatively normal and fastness of things because of the cost of delaying them, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a talk that's worth taking here, and I appreciate it. A senator for entering this scene.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u71	A respectable president. We are here eager to discuss the government's five - year financial program, which is, in effect, only five years'name so that it is revised once a year, that is, all the means. I'm going to talk about the opinion of the committee which is considered to be the fourth thing, which is my opinion with this financial plan. During the past term, public financial laws have been severely tested. Since the last election, the General has adopted financial policy, two suggestions for changing financial policy, three financial programmes, four budgets, one final budget, and finally eight budgets. As early as the spring months of 2019, financial policies and financial programs had to be revised. This review proved necessary, as government matters had been too tight in the original financial policy. As a result, it was decided to enter the financial policy of a so - called uncertainty gap. It was hoped that with increased financial boundaries, further revisions would not be necessary, even though dark - minded scenarios would be realized. Covid-19 resolved those hopes, as we know, and since the time of the outbreak, the government's budget has been under unsurpassed review. In view of the number of times that have been removed from current programmes during the past term, a question can be asked: Why are the annual donations made on the budget? In the beginning of the terms of the terms of the budget, financial policies offer a defined set of terms and budgets cannot substantiate these criteria. Then Ministers are not bound by the economic policies presented in a financial programme on the individual topic areas. Furthermore, more than a part of the Generals can be turned aside from the conditions of government funds, e.g. of debt ratio, as was done after Covid-19. Despite the above, regular development of financial plans has proved its value to some extent. In the spring months, the financial programme will make the budget regular for the discussion, which must be of utmost importance to all of us, rather than merely talking about financial matters. It will also be helpful to overlook long-term individual environmental policies. Moreover, each time a successful financial program puts pressure on a private government to fulfill its promises. As shown in a financial report, there are no material changes from a current financial programme and major changes due to updating national interests. So this financial strategy is held in the same flaws as the budget adopted by the Generals before Christmas. It is not yet determined how to work down a waiting list in the health care system. Psychological expenditures have not been financed. Public organisations are still under way, and they do not plan to engage in social security reforms to reduce damage and prevent further failures. The next government will have the task of extending additional measures in the year 2023/202025, a total of 102 billion. Then it is important to learn from past mistakes and to protect health and social security. We must not cut ourselves off in public service to those most in need. A few days ago, a news agency discussed an 80% increase in emergency hospitalisation. As a result, Dr. BULG's psychiatrist said that experts agree that we are getting over the consequences of the bank crisis. We still do not see the end of the result of the dramatic decline in 2008. I hope we don't make the same mistake again. When we talk about BUGL, we need to realize that about 80% of the emergencies are due to the spiritual discomfort of our young people. It is heavier than tears that we should stand here and be in this situation today, and I am absolutely discouraged from understanding it. Here are the convention's 63 agents, and here the government is operating with counsellors and escorts, and to me it's totally incomprehensible not to be taken care of at once. It's totally inexcusable. It doesn't matter that there are 100 million people and where the need may be 100 billion or what it is. Puting 10,000 bucks doesn't matter. Here and there where the need may be 100 billion. All we have to think about is putting our people in first place. We must meet our people and help them if they need help. A fourth smaller section has proposed a number of adjustments in this financial program, all aimed at reducing the quality of the health system and helping those most in need. That's remarkable, that despite the fact that a group of people put in prime complaints where it is recommended that we help those in need, raise minimum wage, stop taxing poverty, try not to raise court lists, so those who are in charge of the land will not be put in order. Let us not forget, dear President, that all that we are dealing with today, the whole problem, is man's work. The Covid problem could possibly be the work of men as it has been recently appeared, as I read in the Morning Press this morning. How did this virus come to be? We don't know. It is inexcusable, more dignified, that we do not do better for those most in need. I don't have to waste my time talking about what these financial geniuses said before I did, talking about the economic situation. Everybody knows that 20,000 people on unemployment is a terrible situation, that's what everybody knows. It is a wonderful thing to bring 7,000 jobs, but it is also quite strange when employers do not understand or deal with the problem of recruiting. Why is that? It has been observed here that the chairman of a hotel driver is in a great deal of trouble with recruiting staff as we begin to prepare for the return of tourists. I can't make it. I can't get any connection with the way it says that we're calling here on this terrible unemployment at the same time that unemployed people refuse to do some work. That's not supposed to happen. These 7,000 jobs have to become reality and get into the system. There's 13,000 out of work left. It's being advertised, I see today that job advertisements are being added, opportunities to obtain jobs. There is something wrong with the system when employers complain of rejection of jobs and refusal of jobs, when employers are having trouble recruiting people at work. There's something wrong with this system because it's not like people don't want to work, I never believe it. It is one of the most pathetic things anyone can experience, losing so much of his legs as this epidemic has done, and his family is in a huge crisis. What has the government done to come, e.g. to meet debt - related families who are stuck with an apartment loan? What has been done in inflation, which is nearly twice the cost of Penitentiary? Nothing. Just keep on holding on to your price-proof loans that multiply. In this period of months, the debt of the households has increased by about tens of billions. The people have repeatedly discussed it, here on this platform, the most important and most remarkable platform in the country, as well as in the printed form, and have directed it to the rulers, made it first for over a year, whether it is advisable to secure the families, put on the belts and shoulders, which are insured by the loans, and eliminate insurance on the consumer loans. Always and everywhere the answer was: Don't worry, we're not getting any inflation shots. I'm the pessimist woman all the time. But something remarkable was right next to the pessimist woman, but there is always a need to wait for the crash to happen. We must always let the individuals, our people, and our families fall into the well before we help them, before we cover the well. It was a small tip in the discussion of domestic debt, of inflation, and of the fact that the government has done nothing to eliminate insurance on consumer loans, even in a pandemic. As I wrote in an article published in the morning paper for more than a week ago, we all know that if a limp or a little warm, let's say little crippling, the American economy will sneeze. - You're right, I totally turned this around, if the American economy sneezes, we get a cold. I don't quite know, when it's been about having things looked ahead and built on a good foundation, what's being done in that relationship. Not at all. I can see, however, that our yellow legs are to be sold. I see that, and they're working on it, selling Iceland Bank that gave me the benefits, the benefits. I also know that the bank tax is being reduced by some billion to make it easier to sell and make it more desirable. The question, then, is particularly so: For whom? Why are we not allowed to enjoy the fruits? Somewhere it is: Few people enjoy the fires that first light them. It's the Icelandic public who usually pays for it. The people's party, or I'm here in my fourth part, suggests some changes, as I said before. I suggest that there will be an increase in the budget of 24 material contributions to finance the psychological cost of a billion dollars each year of financial planning, no less or less. In this regard, I would like to refer to inquiries as my fine platoon president and platoon brother, Kristinsson Insson, arrived a while ago in March, to remind me, as he pointed out that at least 1,200 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental or psychological problems. The most common waiting list is at the Development and Behavioral Center where 600 children await diagnosis. Honorable President, we're really talking about children. We leave children with mental disorders to wait, not just months, but even for years. And again, Mr. Honorable President, we're talking about children. Children should never go to a waiting list for treatment, whether for mental illness or for anything else. Pressure on children and their families is often so serious that the damage will be irreparable, both spiritually, physically, and financially. By not excommunicating the lists of young people, the Kingdom makes an assembly, and I am still pointing at it. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, my good platoon brother. I continue to think: There has been increased mental and physical abuse of children, which requires good and rapid health care for children of vital importance, as well as for ADHD, anxiety, autism, behavior and communication problems, and the learning problems of children. So the failure to cope with the waiting list problem is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible. Waiting for speech training in speech pathologists ranges from 17◯36 months for children who find it difficult to control the language. Just wait three years. Just wait. It's a clear message. The country's end, however, is late; the number of children, high to 900 children, is waiting for this service. A respectable president. We've been dealing with a number of things, both in financial contributions, and now in a financial program that is partly supported by the law of the law. But refusing to give children a service when they need it is absolutely inexcusable. That a seven - year - old can't get the necessary service until he is ten years old is totally unacceptable. What kind of society is it when we offer such an offer? But it wasn't a problem to put 180 million into a minimoon. Also, it wasn't a problem yesterday that set 400 million people apart in connection with the majority of the private media, most of which are owned by the wealthy, who hardly know what to talk about. There seems to be money in such things, but putting the people in first place seems to be a problem and nesting for many, or at least these governments. No child should ever have to wait on a waiting list. 9% of our children, young people, have thought about suicide. These figures are amazing, you can't really put them in touch with one thing or anything except incompetent governments, government by government. As mentioned by the Director - General of Psychologists, BUGL, they link this problem and this great need for child admission to BUGL, an emergency problem, as well as the result of the 2008 economic collapse. We're going through another trolley now, massive unemployment, massive poverty, with increasing poverty. How, then, can it be said at the same time that so many billions are being provided, for example. The social security system? Great. It's true. There's billions of dollars in the social security system. But how does it benefit the social security? How does that benefit the number of people there? How does it benefit them when they always grow older and they never get anything better? How does it benefit them, when, in January, each year, only a correction of the index of their progress from the social security system is not accompanied by a general pay development in the country? The gap between the social security providers and the employee has ended in industry, was 4.3% in January. A respectable president. The survival of micro- and social security workers who have nothing else to rely on, but the irony benefits of social security are reaching 40%, no more or less. In fact, it is inexcusable to talk about billions of people who are put into systems that still keep people in so oppressive poverty that they cannot raise their hands over their heads. Is it surprising that there is increasing mental distress in society? How many ministers and members of the council actually lived in poverty? Perhaps that is why it seems so difficult for them to identify with those who stand by relief agencies every month, so hundreds of times, to ask for food. That kind of government is destructive. We're supposed to be thinking about people first. We're supposed to take care of everybody. We're not supposed to have special interests here, we're supposed to be in the public interest and we're always supposed to. That's what we're elected to do. It should never be a question of that, ever. Therefore, you do not understand how to reduce the income of a government fund while looking at increasing poverty, reduce the income of a state's budget by reducing bank taxes and fishing costs. The large structure returns to us about 500 million a year at the same time in recent years as it has taken some 600 billion, 600,000 million in money. In the past five years, we have been visited by 2.5 billion people who own the sea resources. Most of the things we've been getting access to the sea resources are going to run the trucks around the seawork and the fishing industry and all of this; the cargo and so on, to feel the fish and the fish. We live in a system that is incredibly defective in so many ways. At the same time, there is always the same song here, always learning to write beautiful talks, the same song, with full respect for all of us. But that we step in and break out of this box, this frame--no, that's less about it. That's much less. A minimum of four items also suggest an increase in the 25 - year - old budget so that medical care can be financed in accordance with costs. It is true that for the next three years, there is a significant increase in new room care. As far as I know, the situation of a nurse and that service is full of hope. As far as I know, there are billions of people missing into the ministry, and I don't know any better than the operators of the service are saying that our older citizens, our dad and mother and grandparents are taking advantage of this service. It has to be said that when money is lacking, it reduces the amount of service. It is in nature. The nursing home base is a ongoing problem, and it is clear that contributions are immediately needed to ensure continued management. It must be ensured that homes receive the funds they need to meet the demands, e.g. in the short work week. In addition, four smaller items suggest an increase in the 25th sector to improve the treatment and to reduce the quality of the list. The budget is 3 billion a year from nursing homes, 400 million. K. every year due to treatment management. In order to reduce the deterioration of social security and to ensure annual updates, it is suggested that contributions be made to the 27 and 28 sectors. Sixty-niner. Act on social security. It has been overlooked by a clearly defined law that states that sums up, in accordance with pay development. This has led to the continuation of income limits for years, completely contrary to that. The chairman of the legal committee spoke in his excellent speech today. When he came in here and gave us the opinion of the committee of the greater part, he said, in effect, that the holiday goal had been raised to 100,000 dollars. ... bythis Government. Let's just talk about housekeeping. Everyone knows that we probably have one of the most powerful and terrible, pathetic systems in the world and though more are searched. A new report from Stefán Ólafsson and Stefán Stefánsson says all that needs to be said about the damages and lands around them. Sixty-niner. law on social security requires that the amount of money should never be raised less than the number of consumers. But that is the standard, even though it is far lower than the pay sheet, that was certainly evident in January. when my face grew bigger than ever. But in 2009, I think I was put around 109,000 dollars. non-profit markets on the remuneration of social security companies. Those who went to work, cripples, and the elderly also had 109,000. In income, social security was not impaired, but there were contributions and other factors that disappeared. If the person was so unhappy that he started working in the middle of a year and had received a six - month extension, he already owed about 120,000 bucks. and they got it paid back, no matter what. Before the last election, it was decided to cancel. In 2016, to review, a special agreement is made to treat the elderly in the social security system. This change led to failure. This was to simplify the system, but the failure was to be made in that prior to January and February 2017, the government's authority to compromise social security on pensions. A group of people went to court on behalf of the elderly, and this crime cost a government fund up to 7 billion dollars. with interest. Now, for the elderly to be completely decommissioned, it was to be set up for the last election in 0K, so every cent in the senior city would interfere with his insurance insurance. But there was a great deal of ridicule, the nature of the case, because it was reassigned to 100,000, it was at least 109,000, so the reality of the reality is that the holiday target dropped by 9,000 bucks. from what it was before this rounding process took place. It's still a one-on-a-half-a-half-a-half-mile-a-long market for micro-punchers at 109,000 bucks. and has been for less than 12 years. But if it had been followed, it would have been more than a index price of $200,000. today. A group of people have repeatedly given a bill that includes decommissioning from the income of the elderly, and we have shown it by reporting from fine experts that it would probably be more likely to add to our money in the state's funds than the rest. Just before Capacent Gallup left on the side of the spring, it was highest. A social and child - care minister will determine if it was the case that a government fund would benefit from not cutting down the elderly on the basis of employment. We have never seen the underlying factors, since it was thought that a government fund would probably be one of the crowns. But we do not take note of this, for there is no need for an extremely powerful brain to realize that it is not just a public health and basic matter for an elderly person who is trusting to work to continue without being punished for it, much less if he is in a poor financial position and is kept in the poverty trap, giving him the opportunity to try at least to manage as necessary. There's not one or any of these, either in the budget or in the financial program, it's actually dancing around them all, like a boiling hot grass that can't be dipped in the tongue. The people's party has also recommended a bill to eliminate all the losses due to paid poverty in at least two years, and allowing the microchip to enter the workforce. No matter how they try to step outside this rigid system box, they are swept out of the board. Yet, reports have been published and known that the Swedes tried to do this because of the rapid growth of disability and were thinking about building up the foundation of how we might expand our disability, the human race that we have in our microorganism, and moving them to become more involved in society. They wrestled with what we are dealing with today, that there are a great number of disability that are physically healthy, but they are spiritually devastated. When asked why microtoxins had grown so much, all that publicity, as it was two or three years ago, we were not particularly looked forward to the fact that we had gone through a total disaster, a large part of the nation, after the 2008 economic collapse, and still have the consequences, we see clearly. It is fundamental now in the final meters of this government that it shows in action that it is certainly not going to burn itself again on the fire that the nation was burned after the 2008 economic collapse. A minimum of four items suggest an increase in the 32 - year - old level of donations to support the support groups helping poor families, since the number of those seeking assistance has increased since the administration of Covid-19. I'm asking, "Why is that so? " Why is it that we do not time to place money on poor people who do not have enough to eat? Can anyone imagine the feelings of a person who has to stand in a row asking for alms because he does not have enough to eat? Instead of quickly strengthening this relief organization, however, it is as if it is being forced out of the way to obtain 25 million in a group that is divided into nine helpers. A respectable president. It's totally incomprehensible to me because the people's ideals are really for them first, it's exactly what we should do to help people, not let them grow into poverty and grow outside relief agencies that give them food. It must be clear that relief agencies need government assistance in order to carry out increased assignments. That must be the object. We can't save these crowns. It is wise to assume immediately this budget for the next few years. It is wise to assume this now in a five - year financial program. All of these helper groups need to get to a fixed budget. We must be able to show them how they can put their arms around the people, for they are unselfish work that these individuals do, and so forth, all more or less in voluntary, unselfish volunteer work. Much of what our relief agencies can do, however, can be attributed to their companies and well - known companies. I wish I could say that governments can be thanked for that, too. A group of people have also measured $350,000. Minimum progress, tax and inadequacy. Who loves it too much? Anyone with more than a million a month? It is interesting, and it can be said from here and now, that we have often talked about the progress of the Ministry of Health, which dropped by tens of thousands two years ago, which no one understood. In this family progressive setting, individuals as families, the cost of housing is not taken into account, which is the most expensive mail in most families, and now the housing market, as everyone knows, is out of control. We've got a direct malfunction in the housing market today. House prices are rising from every corner of the world. The rent price has gone so crazy that not every man with $250,000 has. The paid month may dream of having anything for it but right for rent. It so strangely, a respectable president, that having food, clothing, and shelter is a fundamental human right, let alone one of the richest states in the world, as has often been said in Iceland. We are a rich nation, yet there are two nations in the country; poor people who have been in poverty for years and so have others. It would be beautiful if we saw a bridge between them. It would be beautiful if we would extend our hands to the society that has been convened here for years and showed it by our actions that we wanted to help him. How about, when we put this financial plan back on the committee, that we simply changed it a little? Who will be last in this government to demonstrate what it is made of? Who is going to be the last to fulfill the big words said for the last election when everything was to be better for everyone? It is also wise to place more funding on prevention. We have to take down the waiting list. We must start to take wisely the way in which we spend our money. Last night I heard doctors had up to 700,000 bucks. daily. It's an Icelandic public who pays for it. It's no excuse to say that they have to pay off the living room and pay for living things. There is no doctor who does that. There are some of them. As we struggle against poverty, we look at such things, 121.7 million a month, 100 million a year. It is a national tragedy when the wealth of government seems to be rich that he can spend it there. When he's rich, he can even have joint replacements done abroad at three times the price of doing them here at home, it is inexcusable that people live in poverty. It is absolutely inexcusable, and it is not a question of what the term means. There is nothing to talk about except food, clothing, and shelter, not to mention that these people can afford to go to the theater, to the car, or to attend cultural events, to participate in the jet scene, there is no one to talk about it. It's just talking about trying to get rid of anxiety, distress, and anguish, talking about giving all children the opportunity to participate in the community with their peers. They're talking about activating the entire population in the country and giving everyone a chance, not just some of them. The elderly are manned in micropigs, they are manned in poor people, and indeed the wealth of men is in our children. Then I've said what I wanted to say. Sometimes I might say more than I was going to say, that's just the way it is. I'd like to finally thank you for an excellent cooperation with a budget board. I think that a financial committee rarely had to find more. I wish I'd been allowed to be in more of the stocks and to work everything together, or at least Something. Then I can tell you that things are a little different. One thing is certain: The crowd always puts the people in first place. While someone talks about our not having a plan on this or the other, the rest of us should look into the General Web and see the 36 cases the people's band have recommended at this assembly. There's no question about the direction of the Gangs. There's never been a difference. We were founded to eliminate the poverty of children in Iceland. We were founded around poverty. We were formed to produce more equations and more justice in this community. That's why there's a party. But I say once again, a respectable president: I feel sad to see how the financial priorities are without people being put first in life, it's really sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u72	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland for her history and for her fine speech, she gave a story for my fourth part of the budget board, and she's the second vice president of the budget board, and I'd like to thank you very much. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect. Hv. At the outset, a senator was doing well in speaking financial work, the financial process, and how public financial laws have been put to the test, and he has indeed done so. I stopped at a few things in a talk. Senator. It is one of the world's goals to eliminate poverty, and I can quite confirm that. A senator and her team have been a zealous spokesman here at a council for many of these matters that concern the welfare system, the health system, and the insurance system. A senator crossed. There have been large increases in this rate of elections. This is a permanent project and will not be completely solved by additional donations. Hv. A senator may have answered my question at the end of his talk, where she came into an organization and avoided the matter and talked much about our children. I just wanted to bring it up in a talk. "I say, I will do well for the sake of children in which there is an integration of service, that is, in good order. There was a senator. We do not allow our children to wait, and we need to help them through the system but take steps to determine the type of service involved; basic services, specific services, or even solutions to very complex and difficult problems. [[The president calls.]] What a positive attempt to resolve these many of the issues! A senator crossed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I can say my heart. But let us also see that we have done little, as both of us do, in looking at the root of the problem. Why don't you start by looking at the fact that the UNICEF was publishing a report on Icelandic children's status? It is so fortunate that we limit one of Europe's highest possible access to education, but in reality it is not difficult to find out what the results are of such a bioavailability. All we know is that our young people's reading problems are growing. Before the last election, it has been said that more than 30% of boys have a problem with reading, poor reading understanding, or almost without reading, and now it is growth in young girls, they are approaching the boys in this regard. It claims that after ten years of high school, youths who have poor reading skills or poor communication are not able to have a great future in education or in school. This person is peripheral, he's peripheral in a society that really requires education, and we have such an amazing access to it. We have to do something because it's one of the roots we have to uproot and we have to fix it because it causes spiritual distress. There is a reason why 9% of youths have suicidal thoughts. Why? We need to dissect these things. We can do better than that. We must not forget about something else. We must put our arms around this society, and we must immediately. We face the situation. We are faced with reality, which is now a more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, that's the way it is. We need to do better, and all of these are ongoing tasks. It is futile to contribute large - scale contributions to billions and high proportions if we do not allow planning and resources to follow. Hv. A senator introduced priorities, and, of course, our job is to improve priorities, direct tasks where they help most, and we can agree on that. That's what we're supposed to focus on. Hv. A senator entered a well - off government fund. So our welfare system is beginning to take 6 out of 10 K. which we receive on tax returns and increasing aging will take more on us. We will be tested in future policy strategy to make better use of the budget, make better use of the money. Of course, this is a ongoing task. But I'm just gonna take my heart out with a what? A senator who, in his speech, helped protect the well - being, eliminate poverty, and put his arms around our children. I think we can all agree that this is an important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson answers his second. We've been here for a whole season. We've totally seen what's going on. We've totally seen the problem, and it's grown. But to 6 K. per 10 K. goes into the welfare system, that 60% of all our dollars go into the welfare system: No, there's 16% of the country's production going into it while Finnum's rights are about 31%. Danir and Sweden have about 29% of their welfare systems. We are far behind most of the North countries when it comes to our best interests, unfortunately. I have nothing more to say but wish that we could do something right now in our final meters and show what we are made of, that we are not just talking about poverty and our children having problems, unable to spend time. Wait till tomorrow, my Gunna, Mom doesn't have money. Can I play football, Dad? Not this summer, maybe next summer, we don't have money. This is more painful than tears, more dignified president. I urge all rulers to put their arms around our future, our children, to take down all the waiting lists, to keep people from standing in line and asking for food. All I have is a plea for the government to eliminate poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u76	Mr. President. Today, we have discussed a judicial proposal, a financial plan for the next five years, in a subsequent discussion. The discussion has been very interesting, truly good. This I do not say to complain about criticism given to the government sector, which is certainly shown in the opinions of the members of the committee and the talks of the officials today, but rather to mention that this has been the subject of wholesome criticism. Upbuilding criticism is always better than subversive. For that, I want to thank you. We're the first time, so you're now conducting a systematic talk, a respectable president, to complete an elected period in the current legal law on public finances that have been valid since 2015. I don't think I'm going with a pointy, respectable president when I say that the government has the first time to complete an election period with all the legal arrangements for public finance, financial policy, then financial programs every year, and finally a budget. Because of unique circumstances that need not be traced out here, and the situation that has been the last few years in Iceland, and the highest. The head of the budget board considered this to be a good guide in his history, as it were, in this way, the Senate resolution proposal for a financial program for the next five years was submitted. mainly as a financial document. It's only right about six months since we agreed on a five - year budget, that was done just before the New Year's Eve. So we delayed last year because of the situation in society and the arrangements they took. Hence, we have a financial program in this way, and in some respects it has been criticized. But I think it is inevitable, in the unusual situations that are now, to walk in this way. The direction and goals and the documents and those we may have considered in the usual way at this time are taking more attention to a discussion of economic issues. A talk about economics is very good for us to take at this point. I've made myself clear today on a standard - we are often seeking to have clear standards of success and activity - can easily be applied to the measures the government has taken in the past few months. Over a year ago, we were faced with predictions of a great economic recession, a decrease in income of the state's wealth, less land production, and when we look at the situation today, as we discuss today's government budget, we see that much has changed, and that is primarily because we have taken decisive action. The core of these economic actions and these economic policies, the more dignified president, is that we are letting the automatic fluctuating functions work, which take full weight of the changes in the community, which are the primary contributions for unemployment, and that we use the tax system to support, etc., I am no closer to that. Second, the core of our economic policy is this month's massive counter measures for a pandemic. This is what is stated in the committee party of the greater part, a respectable president: ▪ On the budget side of the state's budget, except the counter measures totaled about 186 m.k. There are also some actions on the income side of the state fund, with the highest interest in reimbursement of cost taxes for performance. A total of 2,202 and 2021 a.m. objections. has been taken into account that now the estimated lack of sufficiency will not be used to the extent it was scheduled. This is only a small witness to the extent of the action that we have taken. Third, a respected president, is the core of the economic operations that we have been using during the past few months to maintain the success of welfare and infrastructure during the government's work period. These glasses are designed to keep an eye on the financial program we are discussing here today. It is very well mentioned in a table that much of the budget board shows in its opinion how the budget has been developed. It also shows that at least the restoration of the welfare system taken up by this government, large contributions from various infrastructures, and the extension of educational and health systems, are being maintained through this crisis. This is what I wanted to draw at this moment because it is important that we do not lose sight that at the beginning of the season there was a particular task here. Our plans have been carried out, and it has been protected through, even though on our shores, a sudden crisis that we have just gone out of. I don't think people blame anyone, a respectable president, that we may often have debated the ways and methods and the way things were right or wrong, or that it worked, when we get caught up in the sort of rot we had. But then, and we'll discuss it in our panel of committees, the assessment of various international institutions, both AGS and OECD, which highlight the scope of the public action in Iceland to defend the economic status and strength of the economy, because it will be in the moment of the finally published, or, as we hope, now seeing the end of the severest struggle with this epidemic, that we will return to our weapons and here to the economy to return, the job life to take over. The basic estimate of this financial program predicts about 2.6% of the interest rate this year. However, we also see, a respected president, that the forecasts of this year's budget are not working in this way after it seems to be more efficient in the economy, and if we look at the revenues of the state funds, we are making more money. All of this is joyful and simply tells us that there is more strength here, more power to build on. Naturally, unemployment has been discussed today. However, we live in such a strategy we are discussing here today that we have extrapolation, need to rely on data that are so built up that we rely on extrapolation, and that the criticism presented in the government sector today in financial discussions, that this is a policy of unemployment, could be clearly identified as a significant unemployment in the coming years. To that end, yes, that's right, because of the methods that we meet the criteria for these schemes and budgets each year. On the other hand, it should be noted that we believe that the resistance we make and are preparing for and having had a chance to predict unemployment will not be as dark as we see today and as much as the automatic fluke of abduction that will not be as expensive in the coming years as this plan shows. I'll mention this, a respectable president, because this is one example of not allowing us to be misled by a vision of a financial agenda in the coming years, that we are somehow in the seat of unemployment that is so high. The basis for all the economic activities the government has done, and I know and I believe that all political groups working here want to work so that things are going to work, we're going to have the least unemployment and we're going to work again. A respectable president. What I think will be the greatest challenge for the next year and the next year, mainly, is the interaction between the money policy and the government policy, that we are not injecting too much oxygen into the economy so that it can get into overhauled and the money policy becomes a problem in controlling the overheating economy. Perhaps it is quite optimistic to talk about today, a respectable president, that it can. But I think it's fine that we have this warning at this time because the foundation of a good economic government is a strong government policy, a strong cover-up on government terms that supports responsible money policy, and we've certainly applied our money policy in recent months. It's been the big change in moving this community into the sudden crisis we're dealing with. I believe that the interaction between money policy and government policy will be difficult but it is important that we keep it in mind and that we step on government spending stickers in time so that we don't get out of touch. Certainly set up a government budget for the next year a fixed guard. We're going to cut off the debt collection and balance the government budget. It's important that we send out that message and that we keep it. I believe that it will be strong and strong, whether because of the restoration of tourism or other aspects of employment that will create a resistance, that for hard cuts as much has been discussed today will not come. However, this does not set us free from the need to consider how to handle government funds better. I'm not going to pick up special projects that a budget has been involved in this matter, as in recent years, as it was. Rather, we want to mention that we are interested and concerned about how these matters are being conducted and that now we have the means to do this and have a better conversation about them. So I just want to say, in the end, a respectable president, that it is very important that we consider the future in these matters, that we can reason on how we are going to succeed in financing and saving these projects and how we are going to do them. But I'd like to say that it is most important that we make a clear distinction in this discussion, that we have to deal with the situation today and master it before we lose ourselves in the discussion of the future organization. I think it's important that we have a clear water source in our discussion so that we're not grazing a lot of things together, so we don't have much to be sure of. But that's what I think I think all the signs of economic recovery, recovery in our society, are clear, end up getting better after a long time in the north, and I really hope it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u77	A respectable president. Here we are dealing with a conquistador proposal for the budgetary budget of 202/226, which has been extensively reviewed here today. I agree with what was said here that the discussion in itself has been fine and far and wide. It has been observed that because of the shortness of time since we agreed on the last schedule, this schedule is presented in a more simple and different way. It is based on the current case of the Haguems as it should, and it is basically about the economic and economic roles of the public. I have to say, when the end of this election period, like, is over. A senator before me came in, interesting to be through it and to be tested in matters relating to public financial laws. This has certainly done so and much on the project that may have to be settled and wondered how you want to have a future. What may appear first of all is that the status of the Kingdom treasure was very good when we had to face the world's soaring tide. It enabled us to deal with the problems we have faced. There are many differences between us and other lands. Although it is indeed trying to compare the economy with the situation in the countries, our eggs may have been far too many in one large basket called tourism. That is why the plague may have been even more difficult for our little country than for many others. But what a fine deal we have been able to handle! I was just last to read the latest Gallup poll, which has been done for the Ministry of Economics, a few now, that is, and I want answers on how the companies and others have enjoyed the support that has been offered. It's a pleasure in general. A respectable president. In this schedule, framed expenses are expected to increase to an actual value of 243 billion, i.e. has been doing this since 2017 and until the end of this program of 2026. Thus, the overall increase in this period is less than 41 billion, i.e. from the next year to 2026. Of course, it has to be assumed, naturally, because the post in vaccinations is good and we've canceled masks with most of the reasons, those it votes, and here is looking for better with the rising sun, they fall for a temporary additional charge, and they're shown and brought here very well. As the program progresses, certain investment projects have run out and others have not been determined, perhaps in the hands of the next government to set some priorities for them. There has been a tremendous amount of money in the medical system, including the U.S.A. will be carried out by a new International Hospital, as we all know it, and then have gone to the Research Fund and Technological Development Fund, which will also be drawn together and will need to be looked around, when the plan is over, whether there is reason to continue to support it. That is an enormous amount of support or money that has gone into this fund. Then all you need to do is ask yourself, " Do I want this in a comparable way or in a different way? ' As we know, for the past year and a half, it's all about how we come back as a community from the crisis this epidemic has created. The government's guide, as explained here, has been to use the financial resources, highlight infrastructure and innovation, relieve people and companies of the burdens they face, and try to stop debt collections during this period. How we do so will become evident. I stress that it is important that we take the situation regularly, as we should, with an update on the financial agenda every year and face it at any given time in the way we deal with it. There are some factors that mattered. First, automatic fluctuation equations have been allowed to work full weight, i.e. The taxes have dropped and the expenses of increasing unemployment, and so have increased, as they should. It tells us that our system can work. We can also say that the anniversary of last year was better than expected, and the need for future arrangements at the state's funds declined considerably, nearly a quarter. Of course, it all matters. Second, it is the counter measures we have taken. So you're pulling on a really big one, like, there's a lot of it. A special child improvement aid that was added to previous resources that were either extended or changed. That was 30,000 k. Special child benefits to those who receive income - related child benefits. It was another trip. The evaluation is extended by specialisation, extension and dilation of contracture and closure fistula. There was a offset for the remuneration period of support loans, a single payment for long - term work, and, as we know, for the mental - health problems of children and young people to the extent to which they have been doing so far. We have put tremendous emphasis on these past few years, and we need to keep going and doing even better, for it is with many other factors that, unfortunately, such projects do not seem to end. Expenditures due to these counter-important measures weigh about 186 billion. It is also worth remembering that the reimbursement of the reimbursement tax for projects works at least ... allthisyear. That was a decision that was extended. I think it was extremely precious to many. As we are tamed, the homes of many of the people of the country began to take on considerable employment just last summer, and hopefully they can just continue, and people will benefit from this reimbursement. Of course, when we face situations as difficult as we have done, regardless of what they may be, such investment efforts as they have been under attack are of great importance. They earn up the loss of production and increase their production capacity, as has been our goal since the beginning. Then, as we've been through here, it's important to look at how things are appreciated and it's done a little well here when assessing measures and how they've done, e.g. the importance of tourism is high here, as I came in earlier, how the crisis affects parts of the country, affects the job life differently, and, of course, just the communities and the homes. Some rural communities, with virtually complete confidence in the tourism service, made this crisis far worse than many others with a broader point of view. It will be a future project to evaluate the interaction of all these elements, the resources, and the economics, how they have come out. It is important to have it later when this crisis and these measures are made up. We always have to learn. Of course, our goal is to grow out of this crisis so that we can cope with debt. As this has been attributed, the largest project must be, and it is basically huge ahead, to cope with long - term noncooperativeness, and to get it down faster than the Habitat predicts. It's very important to have a variety of resources, and I think it must be one of the things most people come to talk about. One thing that has been done concomitantly with the official action of the money policy is to apply systematically, and I think it was extremely important that the late bank could reduce its basic growth. This has had a very good and positive effect. Although the latecomer has had to grow by 0.25 percent and up to 1%, these are historically low interest rates in Iceland for a long time. A Money Policy Committee issued a statement that included a statement from the U.S.A. that the economic recovery rate is more intensive than previously thought and prospects have improved, so there is a need to respond to persistent inflation pressure, which is mainly explained by the increase in worldwide production and distribution of products for Covid-19. In that case, pay and housing have increased within the country. However, it is important that the State Policy and the money policy and the labour market workforce work on the project ahead of maintaining stability and securing sustainable growth. All of this matters, and we know that if we are not to lose control of inflation, we need to keep our cards tight. Third, the main focus on protecting and maintaining the success we have achieved in the welfare and infrastructure is spoken of by a larger section of the budget, as it was beginning to occur earlier. It's all right here, and it was also done with the first proposal that was accepted several months ago. We also know from the council how much increase and growth have been in both the college and the college levels, the increase in transport and communications, the increase in donations from 2017 to the year has increased by more than 60%. The same can be said for social, housing and insurance contributions, the elderly vacation market, e.g. prolongation of the birth Oralfs, increased body donations for the construction of tenures, as well as the law on sharing loans, so there are some things that have happened. Of course, most and the most important factor is health and welfare expenses. A respectable president. The conditions listed here may be changed from the last schedule, since it was agreed, as I only came in earlier, but a recession in GDP was lower than the analysts expected. However, a somewhat lower economic interest rate is expected this year than was expected in the economic presidents of the financial programme that we discussed in October last year. However, a somewhat higher rate of interest is expected in those years, 20221⁄22025, according to the previous schedule. Of course, we hope to succeed. And there is good news that was showing today, a considerable increase in foreign maps. Because those passengers who are coming from abroad, especially from the United States and something from Britain, appear to be leaving more behind than often has been or been staying longer, that can be part of it. But the system is obviously taking over, for there are now a great number of travelers to advertise by staff and feel that they need to add quite a lot of staff over the next few weeks. Fortunately, this is happening a little faster than we expected, and that's fine. The committee's opinion also makes a significant contribution to financial planning, and naturally the financial Council reminds us of baselines and, in past opinion, points out that we have not been successful enough to keep financial programmes within the framework, within policy areas, and there are underlying weaknesses in our survival. Thus, in view of the social challenges we are facing, it is inevitable that we need to consider the long - term sustainable financial situation of the government. This includes: In the context of demographic change, we're all getting older, climate and technology, and the consequences of production, employment level, production and, therefore, the balance of income and government fees. Under this, we're gonna take over the rest of the deal. Despite the challenge, by reevaluating policy targets and building an uncertain range, the results have certainly been in irons or on the floor of the policy, as the financial adviser says. We just draw it out, this is the main project ahead of schedule. We need to remember this and ensure that transparency is in the measures discussed here, and we regularly need to reevaluate the adaptation need, the exchange between income and expenses, and the consequences for the economy, as well as for public finances. Of course, we have done much. We've been building this improved fund. Now, a lot of effort and invest in digital structure, innovation and research, as I did in the past, and general infrastructure of infrastructure. So much of what goes on increasing the budgets of the state to promote the health and welfare system, and it's a permanent project in the coming years. There are also other concerns, including financial advisers. low growth and buying growth and these special measures due to Covid have been supported by homes and companies, and we agree on this. However, there are conflicting ways in which not all have benefited from the increase in money, which, of course, can be taken into consideration. However, we have taken numerous operations in an effort to give full support to those who have done so badly, including those who have done so. with part-time workaholics, unemployment improvements, prolongation of their income-linking period, with shut-down concentrations, and income loss and penance levels. This, of course, has been a matter of action. A respectable president. I'd like to go over the climate at the end. They have been very busy. We went over the latest plans for a climate plan, and it's been well introduced. I'd like to come into Iceland's new disposal policy for the North Sea, which was only now during the days. It focuses on resisting climate change and responding to its negative effects in the north. There I would like to reiterate what is stated in the committee's opinion to pay more attention to further promoting Akureyri as the Arctic centre in Iceland, including the U.S.A. Through the founding of William Stephen's son, who plays a key role in the counseling and cooperation of sustainable development and environment. Therefore, this is directly addressed to the Environment and Resource Minister to assess the financial frames of this organisation, to-do and to-dos in connection with new decoupling north-south policy. Here, too, are carefully considered and considered the actions involved in addition to previous action in these matters. Four teams: There are natural-targeted solutions to climate, climate surgery, which I think are extremely important. There farmers are very ready, and some long since started working together to cope with the climate crisis. There are also increasing support for energy exchange and the growth of environmental transport and better infrastructures for effective tourism. I'd also like to talk only about nursing and rehabilitation services, she's getting a very good publicity in the Committee opinion. What may not be good in itself, considering all the work that has been done in trying to control the needs of nursing homes, but a long time has been spent reporting, it simply did not become the benefit of a financial committee at least had hoped to prepare what we thought, and in the discussion of the times, had to be done. There are indeed steps to take, and there are ideas that need to take a closer look at and better information. It is difficult to estimate the size specificity from these data. It will come, for example. does not reveal any individual home, even when most are expelled at a angle, with left or in balance. The link between management economy and space populations does not seem to be entirely obvious either. It is important for us, as the report shows, to gather regular information on the cost of nursing. In the years ahead, there is a significant structure of nursing homes, and up to 640 are expected to increase in space. We here make the only adjustment that is, in fact, uplifting the business, the lack of 1.2 billion, and then 3.4 billion in 2024 and 2.9 in 2025. But I think it's perfectly clear that we will not continue to build nursing homes forever. We need to have a much more variety of structured services to older people, as is the case here, whether they are increased house service, day - to - day service outside the home, or just integrating a variety of services that need to be added to the proposed and ongoing development of nursing homes. It is also important to consider analysing the cost of nursing as a group for the expense of homes, citizens, and rural groups. A respectable president. There's a lot to talk about, but I think I'm gonna let it go. There's been a lot going on with financial plans here today. But I'm glad to hear the news that it's shining with the rising sun, 18 degrees north, and companies in travel service seem optimistic, wanting to hire new people, and, as I said before, a foreign map band growing, so I think we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u78	Mr. President. Now it's got the highest. The government and the council members will tell us how they will behave in the next elected period if they are back together in government. They have done so by showing the cards about policy policies in all the fields they've approved here in the conference hall. Today, only the numbers have been updated based on the latest economy and some technical changes. But policy in the language has arrived, and it was approved here in December. If we look at the policy of older people and disability, it is not expected, nor can we see them in the numbers we are working with today, to deal with the tremendous challenges that have occurred over the past few years between those who need to rely on the financial payments of the agency and then the employees. For example, the difference between pension and minimum income insurance is 85,000. per month. If this is not addressed, the shutter will just continue, and the elderly and the elderly, who need to rely on the insurance system, are put in a poverty trap they cannot get out of. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she is content with this policy of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. That there are many things to think about, and I want to start by tearing apart older citizens on the other hand and by disintegrating. Sadly, though their circumstances may be quite different, we know that these groups are always talked about in the same word. We know that the system has been changed a little for older people, but not as much for disability. We have reduced the decline, indeed, but there is a long road ahead and much to be done. We've changed the tax system, and we've done a lot of things. As we know, the result has not been as happy as expected in those working groups who have been appointed to discuss these terms with those groups that we live in. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to have to do it better and try it somehow - I don't know if a minister at any given time has to cut a knot and say: "We're going to do this if we don't get a deal with the group that's involved,'i.e. the best way to change the system. It's not just raising a pension by 85,000 bucks, like a what? A senator here says, that's not the only answer I think. We need to deal with multiple failures in the system. We need to make some adjustments. I don't think the system will ever be impaired, but it really needs to be taken care of in more than one place. The benefits need to be improved. I've always said that, and it hasn't changed. But I think we need to watch more than one factor and to raise our single pension by 85,000 bucks. And I think it's so nice, I don't think it's just gonna work out as an operation. But we certainly need to work for some solidarity with those who need to accept benefits from social security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u80	Mr. President. I'm not sure I figured out what was wrong. A senator was leaving. There may not be an agreement with the government or with the table where disability are concerned about how to change the system. There is not enough reason to keep people below poverty limits. I was talking about paying social security and the people who have to rely on insurance payments. This includes: many old women who are in the most difficult situation, who have not worked all day long and have not earned pensions and have no capital money and possessions to support life in their recent years. There's a lot of women out there, and they only have a chance to get 266,000 at the most. per month. And that is a government decision. They cannot go on strike to demand better terms. It is only the government that determines the amount of money this group is meant to live on. There's nothing to say. We are talking about in what kind of situations and at what advantage those who have to rely solely on insurance payments must live as governments decide. [[The president calls.]] Nowhere is it expected in government policy for the next election period to address the problem. That's what I'm talking about. A senator accepts that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u81	A respectable president. As I have said many times before, we have and should emphasize raising the minimum paid pay for a job market. We are to emphasize the raising of pensions for those at the bottom of the tithe. I have talked about it, and I still believe that it needs to be done. But I was trying to answer it. A senator earlier on the fact that if only elevated and not treated with the resulting impairments into the system, the person may not carry out what we wanted him to bear. I agree that, of course, living at 266,000 isn't decent. every month, whether for women or for men. I only know it in my environment, having grown people around me, I know exactly what income people earn who own a very small pension fund, even none, have been working at home. So my opinion is this - because it's said that it's a vision of the government, it continues - that when a new policy is made in the autumn after the election, and then the budget and financial plan, for the government to which it will be, we need to look to how the situation will be then. Of course, we could have blown up a financial plan with huge numbers. [[The president calls.]] It would probably have been said that this was such a campaign plan that it was half good. There are many ways to do this. In view of the shortness of the past, this was the only way to update financial programs. But I agree with what. A senator in that we need to improve the best of the worst. [[The president calls.]] However, there has to be a little bit of communication, so it gets to the people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u82	President. Two cases. I'm going to continue with what was previously discussed. When comparing pay development in this terms-of-the-art period and the increase in the cost of social security, the rate of pension is 5.7% lower, a difference of 5.7% that would have to be added to keep up with pay development. The Social Security Act is very clear. If pay development is higher than GDP, it should take into account an increase in social security pension. The problem is that it is always guessed ahead of time what the salary development or index price will be, not what it is. In this ideal period, it has always been guessed, except for the first year, to remind me that pay development or GDP would be lower than it ever became. In these years, the increases in the pensions of social security were always less than real-time inflammation or real wages development. This is problem number one, two and three and has occurred 20 times in the 24 years of this system. Added to this is the difference between pension and biographies, with 6.5 billion missing in social security because there were crowning increases in the biographies, not percentages. That's where we're on this case after this election. How can this be corrected? How can we as sources of money really say that these laws on social security pensions are not working and also changing them as legislators so that they really reflect our will, how do we want this to be? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u83	Mr. President. We've taken this spin several times to work on a budget board at least one. With regard to this process, the Ministry of Economics is in good shape. A senator mentioned, when it is being determined and elected and never the other part of it. What are we gonna do? Laws can be changed. It is possible to change the law into that this is not being taken into account. Would there be more of this at the General Assembly at some point and would be the will of those who do the work, i.e. Older people or desperate people, going in the way of aiming at something else, it's totally in our power to do it. Hv. A senator speaks of a raise in the biographer agreements and, on the other hand, a percentage increase, all of which are used as we know, though I'm much more in favour of a centennial raise, I'm just going to say that. I believe that usually it would be better for those on the lowest level of pay, who themselves would have wanted to approach pay contracts in this way or on insurance or so. I don't know if that's wise, but I think that's the way it is, it's more important to those who have less. We've been doing a lot of things, there's not to be forgotten, there's a lot of related things, especially with senior citizens, that have been done to correct the terms and the end of the tithes. We've been doing it. But exactly this mail, with what to aim for and what to change -- I don't know, maybe we'll continue for years more to talk about it without it happening exactly as any will. [[The president calls.]] Or we might seriously wonder: " Is this the way we want to use it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u84	Mr. President. That's an interesting answer. In my second answer, I intend to enter the environment. In fact, the only change in this financial program relative to the previous financial programme is this one billion more until the next ten years to face a trend shift of 40% in greenhouse gas emissions to 55% reduction as our European partners have taken their course and we follow it thereafter. The financial program refers to a billion each year as being set to achieve its targets of emissions by 55%. On the other hand, when you look at the explanation of the cost of reaching 40% contractions, you get about 1 billion pounds, but the budget that goes on the climate during the financial program, on average, to reach the target of a 40% recession, is about 10 billion per year. An additional 1 billion are now being added to achieve a 15 percent increase in contractions. Then you wonder about priorities for success, etc. and can't understand how to buy that contraction for just a billion a year. Why didn't we start with that? Or do you need funding to get these contractions? Which is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u85	Mr. President. If life were now so simple that you could calculate to a conclusion, as I could hear from it. Today, a senator was giving his speech. I disagree with this approach, I'm just gonna say it. It is often spoken of only about 1 billion, and then it adds up to the fact that there is something in the future. Of course, it's not 1 billion, it's 1 billion a year on top of everything else. We will not be quick to consider measures in the way in which we try to claim it, and we will make it a percentage off. Life is just not that simple. I wish I did, but it's just not. Here in the future, into the future - and even more years had already been inserted - are below at least 5 billion. That's a huge increase we've put into it. There is nothing that prepares in my opinion the suggestions here from other categories on this, which are very different because people clearly understand things differently, i.e. How much it takes. The piranha have a completely different number than that, e.g. That's the unit in the calculations. I don't have what people think they need to do about it. Of course, we could use more money, and I'm not going to say anything else, but it's also been calculated elsewhere than in the head of the head. A senator with what goals and resources he needs. During the planned period, we're going to proceed with this, so let's keep it going. We're looking for this. It may well be that after a year, two years, we have to make some decisions completely different from those that have been suggested so far. [[The president calls.]] We don't know what the situation will be. But, as far as I'm concerned, we also have to talk right about the money we owe. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of evidence that there's only about 1 billion involved, but it's certainly on top of everything else every year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u86	Mr. President. There are a number of things that have been going on in the past year that were difficult to deal with, but fortunately, we are looking to the end of the crown virus and the damage it has caused and the challenges it has caused. Of course, we can face the fact that there is a building work in hand. We need to get all our jobs moving. We need to get thousands involved, and we need to ensure economic stability and the necessary basic services and to continue to improve the quality of our country's living. The financial program we are discussing cannot be considered different from that of the government. In view of this, it cannot be replaced by saying that the government has chosen the way of making simple calculations of things. On one occasion, the government budget assumes that long - term, long - term, plans are set. It is said that elections are coming and that new policies and plans need to be developed. It is in itself all good and blessed, but it is a great challenge to the government's law on government law to plan ahead of its own terms. According to the theory that this is just a extrapolation and not a policy declaration, a plan should be established, every time it is submitted, just to reach the end of the terms. But this is certainly not the case with the law on public financial matters. It is clear that the government groups, at least Their spokesmen, or leaders, have all declared that, of course, it is the first option to continue present government activities if no authority or circumstances allow them to do so. Hence, the plan is inevitable. Here is a beginning of time: it is open to all who have eyes and ears. President. I'd like to start by talking about unemployment. The financial figures show that unemployment will be up to 5% by the end of the programme. That's no small thing. This should be stopped because it means that at the end of the appointment period there will be approximately On average, 10,000 people are out of work. That's about it. Three thousand more than we're supposed to get used to. This is what we see in five years. It is, of course, the cost of a wealth of money. Salivation and unemployment improvements at the end of this period are rated at 45 billion. It's about twice as much as when it's normal. There is no less or less than that. 500,000 lost hours each month. This may not be the most serious, the most serious of all, that thousands of individuals and families will live with reduced income and with other problems, financial, physical, and spiritual, long - term unemployment. This must be done in a much more powerful way than is shown in the government's financial program. Unemployment in this country is at the highest level, and this has increased more than in any other Western European control country. It's not to be proud of. At the same time, professional activities are down in history. Behind these numbers are the number of people who do not have a job job and who do not have an active job search; there are approximately 50,000 people between 60 and 74 years of age. The needs and problems of these people need to be met with measures that allow people to step back into the labour market after a long absence. That's why the procreation is the key. A new government must cultivate an environment that promotes natural growth in a general labour market to counteract the self-sustaining trends presented in the budget. We must make it easier for companies to create jobs by reducing job-related spells. We need more work in the country, both public and private sector. We need to promote increased economic growth through increased production. We do so by the courage to invest in green technology, education, and infrastructure, by motivation for innovation and responsible management, and in particular by doing all we can to ensure orderliness. In this context we have repeatedly pointed out that it is time to be serious if, in the long term, the crown is tied to euro, involved in the European Union's currency union, to agree with the European Union on this. Later, we will walk in the European Union itself in its own time. The crowns are very expensive for the inhabitants of the country, and they work directly against economic and commercial growth. Mr. President. For a long time, it has been seen that many structures in society need renewal and that new ones need to be built. This has repeatedly been suggested and provided detailed reports, including by the union of the industrial industry. The constant effort of these tasks is to make sure that they do not produce increased expansion when the level of compression in this field does not escalate the fluctuations. Of course, this is not easy, but it is possible. The policy, preparation, and implementation of projects need much more to be thought of, so that at any given time, there are enough projects ready to be offered on a short notice. Unfortunately, the government has been seized in this regard. She had little or nothing ready for her hand, and as a result, important tasks that would have been suggested to attack with shame and shame when the Korean virus arrived here. A financial body has made this a special subject in its comments on financial programmes. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ As mentioned earlier, it takes time to attack on investments and therefore it is difficult to balance them. This is equally valid for rural society as well as for the State. Furthermore, financial advisers, by permission of the president, state: The importance of investment and how the public investment brings forward in the form of increased production capacity will be discussed in a voluntary budget. In general, investment is viewed as a suitable means of public capital when the economy is relaxed and production factors are maluseed. The multiplication effects of such investments in contractions are believed to be higher than the multiplication effects of many other actions. The report of the World Bank notes that the effectiveness of investments is also more long - lasting than that of others. I'm still quoting financial council: The Council of Justice has repeatedly called for a transparency in the setting of priorities for investment initiatives and their business calculations here. The financial gain of borrowed money is reasonable, with more money than the financial cost. Arguing investments will bring the prepared people to future generations in a better condition than if they had not been attacked. This is where the type of investments are attacked and when. Seeing more coverage on the prospect of investments would increase the transparency. In the current year's trip, it can be expected that a part of priorities will be the effects of individual projects on the sector, the territory, and the worst populations. Also important is the timing of investments. Government decisions to respond to public financial measures often take time, so they may be too late and may even work against the desired goal. This is reflected in a discussion of government investment levels last year. In the box 10 of the plan, there are a number of problems that require delays in starting an investment after financial resources have been obtained. It has been shown that in recent years the budget for investments has been thwarted by 253/430% of the total approved amount. Such delays tend to weaken the impact of investment as an economic response. It is heartwarming to see that this process is being proclaimed to be reformed. Mr. President. That is quite firm and harsh criticism. I want to draw special attention to the last sentence in the chapter that I quoted. It is positive to see that this process is being proclaimed to be reformed. You see, it is. The fact is, though, that these improvements have been announced repeatedly, but nothing has happened. On two occasions, however, such changes have been announced in the Government Constitution, this and the last council, but none of these matters have been identified today. I'm sorry, but I still think financial advice will have to do with the idea of celebrating the seemingly impossible changes. Mr. President. This relationship cannot be avoided in this context of the synopsis adopted by the Council on April 18, 2018, which discussed the guarantee of quality, practicalness, and effectiveness of public investments. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys to implement policy development with the aim of ensuring the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments from the stage of development and the planned life span. The secretary of a five - man team to establish formal government cooperation, employment, and educational community on the development of frame plans for three years in order to build up knowledge and skills and to improve research on the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public investments. This was to be done before November 1, 2018. After the decision was adopted by the General, no questions have been asked. I am fully convinced that it could certainly have helped the government to have carried out their duty and to conclude with the Generalis. In that case, she might have been better prepared than she has seen. Mr. President. The government's financial affairs are of great importance to all of us, and they can be taken into account in two ways. On the one hand, they tell how much money is to be made, how, and by whom, but not to forget the factors set up and at what cost, and to consider which projects to spend on the money that is funded by the government. This teaches many grasses, including services of various kinds, investments, and support networks for those who live under such circumstances in the long run or soon to be unable to support themselves financially. Of course, the subject may be approached either first by deciding which needs to be met and where to raise money, or by which to earn and after what to do. In real life, of course, this happens with some mixture of the two. Reverence has repeatedly criticized the government for having excited the bow too much at the rate of increase in the cost of government spending at the top of the economy and for the fact that the government's budget has become insurmountable for the epidemic. In this regard, the State account of the year 2019 is a clear witness. Some 70 billion of the world's budgets brought about a worse turn of events. It is not enough that the government has excited the bow all too high; it ignored all warnings, including. from us on a paradise, but also chose not to face all the flashes of economic progress, clear evidence of a memorization in the economy. This too has been clearly pointed out by financial advisers. In view of the financial strategy, it says, by permission of the president: During the crowning season, the belt was released, and the government's traffic increased in a way that the underlying product has become negative. Questions need to be asked when and how to wind up from this trend. Of course, the government can only blame itself for the underlying problems we are facing. As a result, we were in worse position to cope with the consequences of our viral crisis. It is essential that we keep this up - to - date when we discuss the money and the plan for the next year. The crisis had started before the crisis. The wealth had become insurmountable to the crisis. As we look to the future, we need to consider how we will cope with the grand task of balance in Kingdom life, how we will cover debt, and for how long. It can be expensive to owe, and it can be very difficult to predict the length of interest. But the more you owe, the more you have to pay for growth and the more money you pay for interest, the less money will be made available to make lucrative business projects, make use of money, think of future generations, and make sure that all the services we agree on being in the public circle of activity. But the government has been more silent about this aspect of the matter. Mr. President. Thus, there is no question about how to master the government over the coming years and years. However, it should be noted that these include the use of effective measures of up to tens of billions of dollars, new ornaments to avoid talking about cutbacks and rises of taxes. There are no examples of any of these resurgences or ideas. Of course, unless both are involved, everyone knows that there are cuttings or increases in taxes. The government will keep a thin sound in its direction. Of course she doesn't know, or she doesn't have the courage to report it before the elections. Mr. President. Our vision at the Backwater is clear. We do not want cuts that include impaired service or tax increases. In our view, it is urgent in this situation to examine carefully all the government spending and government management, where to do better, and how to obtain the same or better service for less money. We are to set high standards for quality, to define services well, and costs. We need to know what we're getting for the money spent on the government whether it's government agencies, government companies or private companies we buy services from. This may include health care and health care, which have the nation's largest budget. Whether she is private or she is driven directly by the government itself, it does not matter. Mr. President. In an interview with the state TV last night, which included the media. on the pay of expert physicians, the president of Iceland's Medical Insurance, said by permission of the President: ▪ As shown in an interview with the president of the Medical Association of Reykjavík the other day, this service has never been measured or expressed in a public way, neither the cost of the service nor the extent to which it is performed. Of course, it is only very difficult to say what is normal and what is not normal. So, of course, we simply stress that these are costly and that people just have nothing to wonder about what is normal in this. Mr. President. Under these circumstances, the director can take his or her mind away. We need to know what they're paying us for. We need to know, not only when we are bought with private services but also when we give money in public or public service. Indeed, there is much work to be done here. The tools and toys are available and used in many parts of the world. They must be used. If everyone sits at the same table in this respect, we can be more sure that we are spending money well, whether for public business or private failure, a service that is private than the government's pay. I'm convinced that there's much there to do. We should not be afraid to ask ourselves, " What are Kingdom assignments and how will be done best? ' We must not be afraid to look at these things into our heads and to change what can be changed for our benefit. We feel that this is one of the bigger and more difficult subjects of the coming years that needs to be taken firmly. Mr. President. I'm going to sum up a few things, some very basic facts about the economic situation of the nation, which is deeply important to the public and to the economy. The Penitentiary aim is to maintain inflation, which is nearly 2.5% per 12 months. Since the start of this government, inflation has been measured 41 times. For 36 times, it has been over the inflation target. During the last 12 months, it has been a goal that is further removed. The latest assay shows a rate of 4.6% inflation and it is not in sight to show a reduction of inflation. Not just that, Mr. President, the inflation approaches being twice as high as the set target would expect, it has increased the most relatively in Iceland compared to the major competitive countries in OECD. In English it means that prices have increased more than proportionately in Iceland during the past year. Unemployment is high, job initiatives have never been smaller, and new reports have been that the budget is assuming that unemployment will continue to be high, so that there is considerable higher than the average lack of employment in recent decades, and clear evidence of a growing unemployment in Iceland than previously understood. Iceland again cuts itself out of control countries. Here, unemployment has increased proportionately over the past year compared to our major business countries. It is also not a good record. Mr. President. Icelanders typically have a much higher interest rate than citizens of other European countries, and this is often referred to as a special Iceland pressure in this context. It's not new at all, Iceland. They stay through the tribulations of the last year. Admittedly, there was a decrease in interest, but they were still higher than elsewhere, and now there is a growing process in Iceland. There we are again taking a questionable lead, but we know that growing interest will lead to homes and businesses. Mr. President. Many young people have recently infiltrated the real estate market. It has, in fact, done so. because in many ways it has been made easier. That in itself is noble. At the same time, interest has been historically low. When these two things are together, they call for a great demand, perhaps. so that the market has not been able to accomplish fully, and real - estate prices have increased and are still increasing. This means that very many young people, and indeed not just young people, have excited their bows very high in these areas to ensure a home when they receive support and low interest. Today, these debted young ones are persistent inflation and growth. Sadly, it is not a good blend, and it is not always easy for many to meet the challenges they face. Mr. President. All the things I've said above are simply facts that cannot be refuted. They show beyond any doubt that something is wrong with us. Everything's not fine. It also shows that many challenges lie ahead. As mentioned earlier in this talk on the present government, the dream of continuing is the foremost one. After this list, you must ask yourself: " Is it good for that dream to come true? My answer is clear: I don't think so. I don't think this government will handle the project that's ahead of us. Mr. President. As an emissary officer on a financial committee, I'm not at liberty to promote a special opinion. So this talk must serve that purpose at the same time. I have to say, I've got a lot of questions about whether we should work on making adjustments in this financial program. The conclusion was not to do so, and the reason for this is very simple: During this period of restoration, we made efforts to put forth practical suggestions for making changes in funds, funds, and financial plans. It is hardly surprising to say that the work of the administrations employed here is that they have agreed not to accept anything that comes from the restoration, and, in fact, all the political groups as they go into action in case of that. So our conclusion was that this was a waste of our time, waste of the council, and waste of paper. Mr. President. Once again, I would like to stress that the very key to our success is a powerful, intelligent career that can export services and goods. It creates long - term prosperity and can thus live under a powerful welfare system. In this regard, we need to nurture innovation, technology, and science, and long - term thinking. This is what we must build for the future in order to reach the goals that all of us want to achieve so that we can succeed and benefit all of us. For all of this to be possible, economic stability and awareness must be created both in the lives of the enterprises themselves and in the economic environment. I'm sorry, but despite the fact that this government has done much very well, and I want to reiterate it, in connection with innovation and technology, I'm just as surprised that they decide to quit in the middle. Support to the innovation companies is temporary and out of the question. Everyone on these issues agrees that it takes some year's shame to go on. Of course, these policies need to be revised. However, it has to be that when it comes to a journey made by a innovation company and is intended to rely on reimburse research and development costs, trust that there are index funds ready to invest in the company, there must be some assurance that it will be in the next five, six, seven years. Then you can always reinvent policy and then break the face of this rock. This doesn't seem like the government wants to understand. Other challenges are to build such high growth, Iceland, the lack of this long - term support and the public view of the future, and there is too little foreign investment in Icelandic life. Even now, many of these are created because of the economic environment established by the European Union. How are we, as a community, going to improve our stability, increase the number of opportunities in Icelandic innovations while we have a currency that works against these same objectives or while the government has shown that the currency's religion is no more than that. Secretary of finance has provided a bill that allows the Federal Bank to resort to a massive bank of currency without the presence of the council? How can humans be confident of being in an environment where such situations can be used? The crown is a problem, it causes fluctuations, interest in the euro and in countries that have linked their currency to the European community's gangs are always lower than in Iceland. We're going to have the ice layer with us. Of course, this means that the Icelandic public pays a higher price for his loan than do the common people in the countries around us. The company needs to keep up - to - date with the increase in cost, and the state's funds are repeatedly risking foreign loans. On this we justify and prove ourselves holy. We won't stop pointing at this until it's fixed. It's so elaborate how important this is to our future that it is really incomprehensible not to figure out exactly what it costs us to have a crown, how much it costs the State, how much it costs the farm society, how much it costs the public. It doesn't want to do, feel it is-- Well, I don't know what. But it's such a big interest that it's really incomprehensible. Mr. President. I've been over some of the basics. There could be so many other health - care environments involved in spending more money on protecting and keeping people who now have unemployment. There are thousands of people. It's a challenge to your emotional life. It is very difficult for many, and it is not good for them to be assured that they will not be able to think of. It is lacking in this financial program. The important thing is that we're going to have to take care of government money soon. We need to think about all over the place what we're putting money on, what we're getting for it. That is true in all things. I have deep conviction that if we do well in this regard, we can have better service for less money. I have deep conviction that the health system, both personal and public, can be controlled more effectively if we engage in the work of determining what is going on in these institutions, of making quality demands, of what is required. Of course, we pay for it. Then I think there's a lot of work to be done in the next few years. What I have considered here in this talk is all important things that will await the future, those who will attend the coming council and the future government. This will be a difficult task. A lot of decisions have to be made. In this respect, I think it's wise, for politicians - I'm at least. the thought - praising as little as possible, but doing so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u87	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's most excellent speech, which is well known as a committee. I'm kind of the one who likes the last words of which. Of course, a senator and we are not to make such a promise that we cannot fulfill that promise. I don't think that's any better than when it comes to government business. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned many things that I can think of. First, I want to mention this important challenge that we face to get our business started. This estimate of 5% unemployment when the economy is out of the economy, which means that we have started to use the manufacturing tools that are ruined today, mainly in tourism, shows a higher unemployment level than we know. It is our greatest challenge to get our business started. Hv. A senator here speaks of a simple extrapolation that is indeed, but I would like to remind you that it is based on a policy that we agreed on in the fall and is a extrapolation of a plan that we agreed on in December, but is very clear to the project we are facing. This needs to be made clear. Hv. A senator spoke evenly about stability and need to be done as well as the pressure of inflation. You see, this is going to be quite a balance, not to reduce our operations too quickly, but to make the pressure that we lose our prices. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What are the suggestions for restoration when it comes to the adjustment, so I use this word that I could hear. A senator is a pain in the ass? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u88	I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Still, we are merely discussing the future, the unemployment and the work ahead. What I was trying to point out was that I feel that it's kind of unacceptable that we have a financial program that is five years old, certainly at the end of an election period, where men just give up and start making progress. What, then, if it's just a calculus in numbers, would it have to be so much fun? I can't figure it out. I have to reiterate my criticism of this arrangement. Is it not good, then, that we stop this strategy except through the terms of the season if there's nothing to define over the term period, that's just extrapolation? That's a big question to me. The members of the board have access to all the data that is available and that you are the best equipped, of course the Ministry, to say, "This has to happen to make X happen. What is required for unemployment to not reach 5% by the end of the period? I know people say no one wants a 5% unemployment. Yes, no one does. How, though, will the government do so? She's already made her plan, and I don't see how she's going to reach the goal that it won't be 5% and it'll be more like what we're getting used to on average.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I was not given a complete answer to the emphasis on restoration. But with regard to policy and strategy, on what the budget is, we have a current plan to 2025, and maybe, to be reasonable, that it is a extrapolation of 2026. But it is so that a new government will establish a new policy, a new plan, into a new budget year. It will be the project of a new government. But that is in the interest of the strategy and plan that we agreed on in December. It goes to 2025. There are very clear policies on all 35 topic areas. So I think it's a little small that many people have. Government officials have indicated that they are now serving as members of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses. Here, very clearly, it is presented how the developments could be compared to different staged images; a basic view, a optimistic picture, and a black picture. This depends very much on who will be given the vaccination and how we will be able to initiate travel services. Just as the pricing was very sharp with the importance of tourism, it can grow sharper when we start to make use of reduced production capacity. However, there will be loss of production, so the projections are most likely to result in a higher level of unemployment. Hence, this government has put considerable power in the structure of innovation, research, and evolution. And I agree with what. Senator: The project ahead is increasing the export of an intelligent economy. [[The president calls.]] Then the power in the innovation will begin to turn back. It's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the answer and what was presented there. Of course we are. A senator often agrees on various things, and it is only good if we can agree. I don't know if it's because of what I'm doing. A senator - well, I'm not going to start making anything about it, but I'd feel better if this was a better place for us in things we're doing, and especially because we've had very good discussions about innovation and evolution and the importance of it that we are, I think, quite agree on. I just want to reiterate what I said earlier, that I really want to commend the government for the many good things she's done there. But, of course, my major criticisms and others are that humans do not decide to establish this powerful support that has been started now and that it works longer and for the future, at least such a short-term future, maybe five years of age or whatever it may be, and then it would be revised regularly. It hurts so much when it comes to support like this. There are so many people who start, and it takes time, and they figure something out. Now it may be that many people are becoming terrified about what happens next, whether the relief will become apparent. Don't we have to get ahead in researching like crazy men or what that may be? It may not be as good a research project or as timely. This is a danger that can arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u91	Mr. President. I can't help taking this opportunity to thank you. A senator for a always green speech. I say that because we've been together for almost five years and I think I've heard similar talks from both of them. A senator and myself and various of our colleagues at this time, that there are things wrong; the innovations are not in very good condition, our currency is kind of trash. That's a long list, a long list. A senator made an excellent effort in his speech, with problems that need to be corrected. I agree with his diagnosis, completely. But I can't help but wonder, when I see virtually no results in the next five years, for a number of reasons that are both these and the last, and even the last, and many governments before that, how we're going to fix this. Plan like a dog. The speaker in his talk was about tying the crown to the euro or recording the euro and setting up a new creation. Okay, cool. But it sounds like a four - to - eight - year schedule. How does the time line look about making the big, essential system change sufficiently fast so that we're not -- well, I'm not gonna be here after the next election and some will be here. How could this plan look so that after a five - year or four - year period, there could be some success? I'm afraid that somehow we're always spinning at the same point because there's always going after some magic solutions instead of taking the things that should be easier to fix.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for asking me these questions, and I especially want to thank him for calling this talk ever green. I love it because it's now with some things that you have to repeat them and repeat them until the sound line is available. I also agree with what happened. When we have discussed these matters, we have agreed on many things. I want to start with the safe solution. I don't look at what I do very often as a publicity subject, i.e. The currency and the crown as a patent solution, however, is the solution to many areas of Icelandic society. People would love to - I'm not going to. A senator, like so - type these European languages down to: You just want to go under the power of Brussels. - But it's all about society. About the other one as a dog. A senator asked about, with time lines and what needs to be done to change, I think, for example. that it would be a very helpful step for the voters to make sure that the government that now lives does not continue their weapons. What I went over shows that it's not very nice. But the time plan, as for the euro, I think it can be much shorter. If you get in there and talk about this link, I realize that involvement in the European Union takes longer. And then it's just the statement to do it, that we can immediately start acting like we're in there. But then there are so many things you can do, as with the innovation environment, that you can see a little further into the future, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u93	Mr. President. I agree in many ways. I'm not necessarily sure it's like that. easy to pick up euro very fast, but a connection could possibly come on a relatively fast. The problem, of course, is that communities move slowly. They change slowly. But there are so many things happening in the world right now that call for us to be a little faster than before. As you look at those communities that have reached the longest, certain features - a box they've handled over the years - allow them to move even slightly slower in any area, even though they may be faster elsewhere. Wait a minute. A senator may not be able to list all the points that must be done because I realize that it is not possible in a short time. But I would still want to see some kind of idea, or first time, that how an Icelandic society could change rapidly in the areas where maintenance doesn't stop everything because there's a lot of conservativeity in this relationship. This is shown by the fact that for some reason the independent party will always get back to power despite the good efforts of many to change it. We must be able to do better, but I have become so cruel that a realistic plan can be created to achieve substantial results in normal timelines. I know this is a vague question or request, but I hope it is. A senator can play only with these ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u94	Mr. President. I thank you again. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the answer and the question. Then I'm just gonna let myself think a little out loud here in the pont, which you might not always want to do. I think in some ways we need to believe that we can do things better. We need to believe that we can become a real innovation and technology and an intelligent export. That's what we're supposed to believe. As a result of my career, I have become very involved in industrial and technical education. We always talk about how important this is, and now we have to do something and do it well. We do a little, and then we just don't believe it any more. I don't want to belittle what has been going on in these last years in the fact that the population has grown that registers, for example. In technical school, that's very joyous, but I don't think we believe it enough. I am, for example. not seeing that we are going to follow it, since these schools that provide this education will be top - scaled with teachers, equipment, and facilities. We stop in the middle and then people come around and they have to dismiss it. There's no room for it, or it can't learn. I'm not criticizing the current system at all. Everyone's doing as well as they possibly can. But in order to go to world class, and we really believe that we can have such traditions in this regard, we have to go all the way. I think so many times we'll never walk all the way, we'll take about half a step, and we'll fall back, especially if it runs on our snow, and then we'll forget all the other things we were going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u95	V.E.G. President. It is true that when it comes to economic management in the country, it is said here that there will be considerable problems. Here is a financial program, which is the last one that this government puts forth, and it may not. The balance of the state funds for some year, which can have a negative effect, is no longer a factor, and there are signs of a person's job prospects. This tells us that even the best means of action is to make sure that we do so. that our main target of growth, our tourism, can rise quickly. The strategy before the council is a good economic statement. Even positions can be spoken of in which there is not a particularly deep involvement in the distribution of various problems. Perhaps it is no wonder that there is no real policy where elections are after a few months, and the government groups don't want to show off the cards. The fact that financial programs are designed to be a guide, a particular picture, is that a clear indication of how to deal with the problem needs to be made. It should be clear from the very beginning that surgery on a legal basis is not to be undertaken. It also has to be clear that there will be a guard who will have access to the same service wherever he lives in the country. The economic uncertainty is certain, and that is why this center must be so clear. At the same time, a search must take advantage of all available options. The Communist epidemic and its consequences have affected different groups, families, and businesses. Therefore, we need to deal with matters this way that everyone can benefit from it. It is not a good situation, but it is also important to choose an angle, how to face a future in the next few weeks. We have begun to see the sun in the fullest sense, and it must be the work of the next government to solve the challenges we face. That is why making sure that growth is possible and that growth is done must be thought out of the box. We can mention that certain government agencies continue to be maintained. Many of these same institutions have saved themselves travel and have used successful telecommunications. I know for certain that the local institutions have even had better relations with governments, where they are more often allowed to board on equal terms through telecommunications. This example can teach us that we can well see opportunities in the narrow conditions that have existed for some time now. Tourists are looking at Iceland. We can thank you that I think, the volcanic eruption for that, as it was discussed on the largest media in the Western world just moments ago. You've agreed to further funding for building at Keflavík Airport. It is mentioned as an example of a Covid operation, but I would have rather liked to see what was set up, to contribute extra funds to the Eels State Airport, and thus to prepare a road to waste. Now it is only intended to grind the runway itself, which is certainly a long time, but it is a special thing to postpone this project using a drive to the Loftur Standard Airport. The racetrack is designed for two effects, helping to speed up the runway air traffic and to make it easier to clear the way for another traffic. In addition, there was the possibility of using the highway that would be available for aircraft when the situation shut down other airports in Iceland. It can happen. However, this procedure was delayed for Covid. It's very hard to understand, and this is one of the factors that I feel bad about. The growth of tourism is important, but growth must take place throughout the country. But more is needed. You need to improve the environment of your enterprise so that they can also grow and add to the staff, even companies that benefit from these same tourists we hope to get here. Therefore, it is important to support the companies and make sure that the regular work they have will be simplified. We in the Middle East have talked about a reduction in insurance and a reduction in property taxes, for example. It might be helpful. An additional opportunity for innovation is required in all areas of human life, I would like to say. Then I'd especially like to mention farmers in that relationship. I think they'll stand for innovation every day. You need to be careful not to wear all your eggs in the same basket, with a repeated phrase, but quite true. In a few words, I cannot help but intervene in the business of aging. Organizations in welfare services have repeatedly pointed out that they are facing a crisis as a result of their operation. These are very few words, but they say very much. They point to the seriousness of a nursing home, and it is clear in my mind that governments must deal with the problem in a certain way. We need to secure their business, and we need to ensure staff care. There are other subjects. We already see evidence of greater distress for children and young people. I have submitted every session a written inquiry about the period and status of psychologists. I still have an answer to the question I asked last time. It will be interesting to see what evolution has been experiencing in the past few years. Also, I asked for a waiting period and the status of mental - health professionals. Then there's urban development. It is very important, as I mentioned at the outset, that we who live in the country do not give a discount of our basic service. In this regard, I can mention schools, clinics, hospitals, nursing homes, and all the legal services to be protected. But it's more than that. There has to be room for these institutions to move forward. It is very important that the national and national organisations return to the target. With these words I will finish my word.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u96	Mr. President. We'll discuss the government budget. This will be the last financial program proposed by this government at the council, and the times are significantly changed from just over a year ago. As everyone knows, society has been able to cope with the epidemic of viral infection, and many of these have been the result of this. The government, with our support, has supported the companies and members who have had to deal with problems with their problems during this time, especially in the tourism sector. Unemployment has increased, so the decision of the State Fund is great. There's a big limp on the state funds, and we're looking forward to something that will remain in the future even though this viral epidemic will soon be over, Mr. President, which I expect to be this summer if I am to be optimistic. What then? What's next after the election in the fall? In September of our next session, we will enter General elections and choose a new legislature, and then a new government will be adopted. What privileges await her? The waiting tasks are to straighten out the state funds, i.e. To get it back, to get state funds back and then pay off your debts. Then there are two things, Mr. President: Either men go through taxation or they make business growth pay for it over a longer period of time. To be honest, I'm quite afraid that if this takes over the left management--so on the way left men have talked at councils in the past year where they have literally called after tax increases and called after the increase of public jobs, it is even a solution to unemployment problems to increase public jobs and should be a special object - I'm afraid that if we have a left government that could happen and everything indicates that, based on research, the taxation will go up very quickly to the next winter in order to try to bring these down. Then, people will follow their tails because the growth of the ten - year - old state has generally increased, so taxation may not reach their tails in that sense. But I'm good with the fact that we're going to let the growth of our jobs go down in a long time. That's the vision I see as a solution to the rightfulness of the state funds. There's a lot of sparks in the air. We've been looking forward to the last few months where inflation is about to start. Growing growth is under pressure, and it is likely not too late to see them spill over the population. This will inevitably impair the interest of remuneration, but it will also cause those who have purchased property in the past year to have high loans of variable interest without having had much of their own money when the investment was under attack may have to watch a change in the environment. I'm thinking there's a big problem here because when governments in some kind of popularity game decide to support young people to buy an apartment by raising a financial debt as they have now, and, in fact, often before, I've seen this, Mr. President, often in the past decades, it usually comes back to people. I usually say because it doesn't always happen, sometimes an apartment price has increased very much along. But to be an apartment buyer in Iceland is similar to playing the lottery; at what time do you buy, what loan do you get, how do you raise them or lower them? It's a lotto that residents in Iceland have had to live for decades, and it seems that there is no stopping it now. Although circumstances have been favorable for growth, prices have gone up. This happens all the time, Mr. President. This is what happens every time governments interfere with the market, give loans into the market, they raise apartment prices, so young people just have to buy more expensive apartments, take bigger loans, and owe more debt. If these little ones don't last, which they probably won't, it'll get worse. It's a terrible ring-up we're offering the young people over and over in some kind of popular game, and I think we should go for it. The only people that benefit from this are construction workers, who have actually watched an increase in construction costs and a great lack of property. Of course, some of the problem, this up - to - date residence prices, can be found in the rural communities, which have many, especially in later times, Reykjavíkurburg, do not offer enough weights and property prices, too high. There is no room for anyone, especially for young people, who are planning to build houses for themselves and their family. Yet, this is no longer the case, as it was in the past, that people could save themselves by building their home themselves. Now, the price of property has become high, and it is relevant to what your rural society does, and a lot of skin on land, so that young people no longer have the option to take the course that was the means of a great many people in the past. How long must we get out of the current wave valley? It's not good to say. As people are able to travel, I am optimistic about the rapid growth of the tourist current, making it easier for them to increase immediately this year, and becoming similar to what has been in the past between the two years. I think a business will recover quickly from this, that is, those who survive this. So I'm just optimistic about the fastness of professional life. I'm going to discuss some issues with this financial programme and go on a few things. I could, for example. start with the nurses. I heard the first speaker, huh? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, spoke a little of a nursing home. The plan is to invest in a certain number of nurses, but the problem is not being handled. The problem is how to run a nursing home. It has been a problem for a few years that companies who run a nursing home and receive pay from the state, which is a service trade, have not been able to run. According to a report on the analysis of the cost of nursing homes, the majority of nursing homes are expelled in a high - angle manner. I have a report on this, and it shows that more of the nursing homes are being thrown down. 73% of nursing homes were fired in 2019 C.E. This is without the influence of the collective agreements that arrived in 2020. There is only a positive result of one third of a nursing home. There are some very striking numbers that are listed in this report. A negative result of more than 8% is from a quarter of the nursing homes, which contains a large story of conditions in such nursing homes, as it is true that a number of rural communities who have run some of these nursing homes are returning them to the state's arms. There are examples of this, as in the West, and in Akureyri, and there are others around the same thing. I wondered, " What will the government do about this? ' Will they move ahead with the problem until things are gone wrong or is there any way they can reduce the demands? Of course, Mr. President, it's not possible to build a nursing home, though it's good, if you can't fire it, that's an eye for you. This problem will only be increased because the number of elderly persons increase year by year and example from this same report is now 12,000 people 80 years of age and older and after only 15 years there will be twice as much. It will be doubled in the next 15 years. So I believe that this needs to be treated seriously, seriously, to build more homes and to ensure our business in accordance with our requirements and, of course, that we want to do better to our old people than reports at times say they're undernourished and alone and that we don't get saved in a nursing home. We don't want to hear stories like that, and of course we have to start making a course where we can face the fact that we can treat our old people decently. I call for something to be done in nursing care procedures, that this matter is done, and agreed to those who perform such services so that they can do it without having a loss year after year that accumulates, and eventually lands in the arms of the state. I'm going to talk about the police, too. I can give you a long talk about it, but let's just mention that there's got to be a way of dealing with the rise of organized gangs in Iceland. We have discussed many subjects, have kept special discussions. We've submitted a report to the highest level. The Minister of Justice and I expect to receive the report soon, in which the government's actions are intended to halt this greatest catastrophe, as reported in the U.S. Marshal's investigation report, which will be involved if natural disasters are recorded. We have to take this kind of tough message seriously, and I'm going to insist. Minister again in applying police advice. We have to give them more weapons, more drastic measures, to stop this. We have a recent tragedy that actually opened the public's eyes because it's serious here that we're going to die. We cannot be known for sitting by all the warnings, letting this continue, but we must take action. I'm also going to talk about the climate. I'd like to insist that when governments decide to spend the exact amount of money on climate, they are exactly what they are going to be, as we actually do in the government's budget, that there are goals and that the results can be determined by the actions planned, whatever they are. In a state of business, success is a spontaneous requirement, and I feel that there is a lack of it when it comes to climate. There's a lot of money in this suit. I think next year there will be 13.3 billion on climate. True, we can see that some of this has its destination in the system, but the number of these funds to go is extremely low. Now I'm talking about the climate, huh? Chairman of the budget board. I call for results to be measured rather than observed and these actions will be defined and determined on what to attack there. The next ten years are 10 billion in climate beyond what has been. It is a good thing to do, of course, we must deal with the problem, but it must be made the requirement in government that it is set out exactly what one will do, what money should do, and how to measure the results. So I'm making this demand on the climate. I've proposed here regarding forestry and garbage incineration. It seems that neither the government intends to do. Clearly, forestry is the best way to bind carbon and would be the most impressive contribution from Iceland to climate if we would take our hands out of our pockets and start cultivating forests with some force, even though it would be like this before a collapse. But it's not a lot of money. I proposed four times that we would grow forests and plant 12 million plants a year, but instead of plants at 3◯4 million plants today, which are much less than before collapse. I call it an increase in forestry that would make our impressive contribution to climate. Then the garbage business. I was gonna come in on them, but we're running out of time. I just wanted to point out my suggestion that we should, of course, burn our garbage inside the country, stop moving garbage abroad, or grow it. But that's why we have to build an environmentally stable dump here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-26-101.u97	It is a arrangement between the presidents and the chairmans of Congress to have this discussion held tonight, but it will be completed tomorrow. So the sixth session is off.
