ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u1	The president thinks it's right to call attention. All council members say that today, March 23, is the day of the northern countries. On that day in 1962, the Helsing Fors Law was signed. The treaty guarantees all the citizens of the north, including the United States. equally bioavailability to study and work anywhere in the North countries and is the cornerstone of the cooperation of the countries, which is mostly in the Northern Council. National societies throughout the North countries celebrate the day of the festival, celebrate the Norwegian partnership, and highlight its importance. For this reason, the northern flags are flying here at the entrance of the General House. At the same time, earlier today we may have had presidents of the Norwegian Congress with us a brief meeting, of course, telecommunications.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u2	By letter, dated March 18, 2021, the president has requested this, as shown in the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, to the budgetary committee, are reporting on a report by the State Review Board, which is entitled to conduct budgets, January to September 2020, seminars and seminars.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u3	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, marine and agricultural minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u4	President. The government has left the experts in charge of the disease prevention. It has given us a great deal of experience, and it is reason to continue to follow the direction of people who have been successful in the field of disease control here in Iceland. However, it is different with vaccines and vaccine excretion, which are highly political, as we can see from the news and have actually made the last impression. In that area, the government needs to exercise its power, so I ask the highest. Prime Minister: What news of efforts to obtain vaccine outside the EU agreement? It wasn't a very long time ago and the highest. A minister informed them that their work continued. But how is this work being done to raise a vaccine by the EU agreement? That was the first question. The second is also related to vaccination, but is involved in the highest level of vaccination. A minister cannot begin to give us any idea of what will take place when certain steps are reached for vaccination. Now the Danish prime minister, e.g. It will be reported that it will be given to you when you have been vaccinated from over 50 years of age and that you will be less able to get it in Denmark. What does the Icelandic government intend to do when a certain milestone is reached, e.g. the goal of vaccinating those over 50 years of age in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for bringing up this important matter. First, I would like to say that the agreements that are already valid through the European Union, which are involved in a vaccine of many manufacturers, are based on the information we have. It will all be said with them in advance that there can be a sneeze, as has now happened in Astrazeneca's case, which I know to the back. A senator knows and understands, but we believe that we will be able to live up to the plans that have been introduced before, i.e. that a substantial proportion of the population will be vaccinated within the year. Hv. A senator asks: "What about other means? To answer, we have, of course, been looking at other non-involved materials, including the European Convention. Sputnik V, produced in Russia There has been a specific check by the Ministry of Health for the vaccine to be added, but the results are not obtained on this issue. Hv. A senator then specifically mentioned the opening plan presented by Danish government, which aims at the development of vaccinations. Therefore, it is to say that we have tried to evaluate what this means when we are down to make up the 60 - year - old age of vaccination. Clearly, the information we now have will, for example. The turning point means that the risk of serious illness, hospitalisations, and deaths is greatly reduced, which means that we can take certain steps to increase or reduce control measures. On the other hand, new strains make us anxious, as well as Dana, especially this British version that data seem to suggest is increasing the number of young people who cause serious illness. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll find out in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u6	Mr. President. I'm the highest. A minister to provide us with as much information as he can, in time, counter with regard to the government's plans. Also, I'm the highest. Minister to look for any means to get a vaccine past the EU's dress. In fact, the European Union is now looking for itself, as in the case of Denmark, since it was mentioned here, in cooperation with Austria, another European Union, who have now approached Israel with the intention of providing vaccine through Israel. At the very least, countries and governments in many lands are looking for any way to obtain additional vaccine, and I would have thought that Iceland had a special situation that should enable us to succeed in such experiments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u7	Mr. President. I can agree with what. That's what a senator does. In fact, I believe Iceland has a particular position, both in terms of its success in access centres and infrastructure, and in other ways. Therefore, the possibility of an experiment was considered with the Pfizer manufacturer. I can assure you what. A senator says that we will consider all possible ways to speed up vaccination, but, of course, we are dependent on others, only because of what may happen at the time of product manufacture, as I have just learned. Only back to Denmark and its opening plans and plans for government. If we aim for the virus to act as it has so far and lay down primarily in older groups, it will mean a significant change when the virus has been vaccinated over 60 years of age. What I flaunt here are the data we see from other countries that new species are growing more heavy on younger groups, which is something we need to consider in our strategy. Finally, I'd like to say what. A senator and another man. Parliaments in Denmark introduce an opening plan that is far from close to the freedom we enjoy here in Iceland today. [[The president calls.]] Just because of our wise preventive measures, we have been able to reduce our limits and have allowed ourselves more freedom than any other European nation in recent months. [[The president calls.]] But, of course, the government will seek to, and I will take my appeal, to keep the General and the public as enlightened as possible on all these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u8	Mr. President. The actions have worked, and the appearance is bright, says secretary of finance regarding a new financial agenda. According to it, though, there will be 35% more unemployed during the year or 5,000 more people than the government anticipated in the budget adopted by Christmas. During the presentation, the government is so totally overlooked that 5% of unemployment is expected at the end of the period in 223 C.E. This will be 50 billion dollars per year, and the cost will continue indefinitely if the problem is not attacked, a mass - working problem. The responsible vision of the government, which it claims to represent, is so unmistakably exposed when considering what advice will be taken in case of the most pessimistic predictions and not a debt debt. The government says that they will take positive action. In English it is called cutting or raising taxes or both. There is no particularly psychological political vision involved in accepting continued unemployment but then threatens with unspecified cutback proposals at the end of the period just to get some special debts. It's simply a journey that is doomed to fail. It's a marketing campaign, but it's not a good economy. I'm asking you, "Do you know what I mean?" The prime minister does not realize that the basic problem is unemployment? It has a lame hold on the treasure of the Kingdom, as well as on the challenges of 26,000 people. Mr. President. We will never overcome our debt until we recover from our unemployment. The debt is the result of the job situation, and it is amazing to hear a government boast of action when the highest unemployment in Western countries is being measured and the situation is growing. [[The president calls.]] So I ask you, is this the strategy for the restoration as the highest level? Prime Minister in the next election?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u9	Mr. President. In what context does the question arise? paritaprevir Did Logi Einarsson this question? It has been a year since a pandemic struck Iceland with social and economic consequences, and the government has taken steps to reduce economic and social consequences since the first day. For example, there are political decisions that focus on maintaining schools open, so that the job life could continue to go on as far as possible, so that there would be no increased burden on women outside the pandemic, political decisions involving both part - time witnessing, a final strength, a decrease in income, a commitment, an increase in unemployment, and so forth. Actions that have resulted in less contractions than previously predicted. The contraction is smaller. In some ways, private consumption has helped us to overcome this difficult situation, and we have also been able to prevent people from maintaining their recruitment relationship by part - time employment and now by a new process under the heading, beginning work that is about to reduce long - term noncooperative activities. There's a huge subject in our community. Hv. A senator's position has often been made a subject for jobseekers, and it is very important that we discuss their situation and what solution is faced by those who want to return to the labour market after even three years of unemployment. Therefore, we are doing this work in which government agencies, free partners and companies, small and medium-sized companies, are enabled to take people from a unemployment registry that has been there for more than 12 months. It is a huge project that will make a difference to reduce long - term noncooperativeness, get people back into the work market, because it is a social ill if this continues to be a long - term workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u10	Mr. President. Yeah, I've made jobseekers' position a lot of stuff here and I've done it now because there's not enough action to be taken. The long-term lack of work is being tolerated in this country. In what context do I ask this question? You see, it's not right by the highest level. Prime Minister, there has been an increased burden on, e.g. Women. Women, young people, and foreign - born people are the hardest to cope with. And when there's a significant cost of work here, there's a significant inflation, here's a quarter of the payers' union problems, as well as half of all unemployed, those are the procedures presented and the vision presented in a financial program is simply not sufficient. I'm asking if the highest. Prime Ministers share a vision of financial security in the state, about a short period of debt, not about removing unemployment, creating security for people, and reduces the balance in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u11	Mr. President. The greatest danger for us to feel secure in this country - and now it may not be time to talk about exactly how this crisis has affected his situation in Iceland, we know that income balance here was the greatest in Europe before a pandemic, so we draw out the facts out - the greatest danger in this country is unemployment, long - range work. That is why the government's actions are precisely about ensuring the recruitment relationship, securing people's survival, ensuring that we create more jobs. We will now see the increase in the investment of the Kingdom. In fact, public investments and the share of the state and of the community in it have been discussed, as we are also creating jobs. This, of course, matters as a matter of course. A senator mentioned earlier asked about, i.e. how vaccination will develop so that society can receive it and unemployment will not become a permanent problem. It is my vision, that it is absolutely clear, that long-term unemployment cannot be done in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u12	A respectable president. The position, the society of prisoners and other interested persons on improving prison affairs and correction, has worked hard and hard in order to ensure that prisoners who come out of prison can make it easier for them to return to their civil lives so that they can get to work, return to the magazine, and become upbuilding citizens instead of returning to the same routine. This organization has served as a member of the volunteer organisation until now, but a recent approval of additional funds from a financial committee, including a financial committee, was adopted. To this company, and first what. The chairman of the budget board is here in the hall especially, thank you for the efforts of the greater part in that matter. There were 25 million approved to four members, including a position that the Ministry of Justice, along with the Department of Justice, was supposed to switch into these communities after some kind of formula, and I'm assuming some kind of service contract. However, this money won't interfere, and now we're entering the second quarter of this year. The question that wakes up is what's going on. The Department of Social Affairs points out the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Department is not responding. A prison office does not know that this work has begun. That's why I just wanted to ask the highest. Whether this important organisation is an important part of helping prisoners to get back into the community in a wholesome way may begin to expect to be supported by the authorities for the good work that the Society does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Just to justify that, there is a conflict, an important society, also with a special agreement with the Department of Social Affairs outside the special contribution mentioned here, 25 million approved to several partners. It is in the final meters to complete the input and the task. I think we need to be careful what the money goes into so that they can make the best of these prisoners when they get back from the jails. All this work aims to support imprisoned inmates serving court service and then to help them be active members of the community when they come out, whether it comes to members of the Red Cross, Protection, Mrs. Ragnheiður, conduct, or other work to do this. We're trying to find out where we're gonna end the exchange and what to do, where this came as an unexpected addition. But I appreciate it. The contributions were made to promote the support of prisoners after the social decommissionation. Of course, there are many ways of supporting this class. The discussion has changed pretty fast for the better in this category, how we discuss these matters, what we do, how we set priorities, etc. There is also a great need to improve the environment of mentalists, who have been found to be effective in helping with adaptation and on the final meters of the prison and other aspects of the work carried out by Tolu Morthens, a number of types of work that contributes to recovery and contribute to effective measures for prisoners after the loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice for the answer. At the beginning of her talk, she said that it was on her final meters, so I rejoice greatly and assume that news will soon come to a member of the family. I would also like to make a decision that stands in a special position among the many good associates who are involved in the affairs of prisoners, and it is the source of opposition from the very environment of the prisoners themselves. Hence, insurgents are often more confident than other institutions, and it may not be surprising that prisoners often do not have much confidence in the public institutions and especially not to the Ministry of Justice, with full respect for the Ministry, or prison authorities, but perhaps only the nature of the phenomenon we are talking about. As a result of this unique position, it is truly amazing that this society has achieved as much success as it has seen without being financed. I'm so happy that this change of viewpoint is at its height. Minister of Justice has taken place and taken place during the past few years. Thank you very much. Finally, a minister of judicial matters encouraged the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u15	A respectable president. It is important to note that this is once taken care of. That's what we're trying to be careful that this legal committee will be about one dollar and not come in over and over again. We want to make a deal on certain projects that can be completed and completed with these communities, these many good communities that support prisoners. It has been repeated that all support for prisoners and all recovery measures are needed to reduce the number of returns to prisons and to make sure that we are restoring the active members of the community to the end of prison punishment. Of course, all the measures that are now involved are to ensure that the system is rotten for this group and strengthens this group to make it strong to return to society. [[The president calls.]] I hope the requirements we are creating will bring both happier and more efficient individuals into the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u16	Mr. President. The government recently announced that ever since May 1, Iceland will release people from convalescents if they come from a so-called green area and have a negative PCR. After three days, the rules will be taken that passengers outside Schngen as well as those inside can present a vaccination certificate and receive a transmissible access filter. It certainly lifted the edge of the tourism service on those news reports. Some even talked about this as one of the most important things that could be done for the tourism and economic services of the country. Now, however, reports from England that the local government will fine anyone who goes on a journey without a trap for over 800,000 dollars. or 5,000 pounds. I think few Englishmen will take time off for that in addition to other costs. As a result of reading like this, the mind is undeniably looking for any diagnostic procedure before blowing a horn with this Schengen mutation. I'm asking the highest. A minister, whether an attempt was made to assess the possibility of traveling with these two nations, especially in the weeks and months, will assess the likelihood that tourists from these countries would come here. I also ask: Has the government tried to throw some numbers on it or to see if other nations are likely to follow in the footsteps of the English with such a prohibition? I'd like to ask the highest, too. A professional secretary for interest evaluations when decision-making is taken, about this opening. Was the analysis of the potential for increased infection due to this opening of other areas of the country? Of course, it is important now that the land is infected with infection, and business is very successful. At the same time, the public has hopes that by spring, life will begin to come to an end. Has it somehow been weighed and measured together? Has there been an analysis of the impact of opening, and as a result possible transmission by tourism, other activities, and only in general in Icelandic society?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course, all of this is very complicated, uncertainty is still intense, and there are limits to what we have to control all of this. We are well acquainted with the effects of infection, and of course we have been dealing with it here for over a year. In no way can we control what other countries decide, or the status of the virus, or the disease prevention in other countries. But we can also see the economic effects of infection. The decision taken in England turns to me, that only England, but not all of Britain, and as the situation is now, I understand that it is only until May. The National Institute of Iceland has been measuring travel wishes, and we felt that the best response to this decision was likely in the United States and in people who are already vaccinated. This does not change the fact that, throughout all this assignment, and I do not know when it will be over or how, we are simply making decisions based on the best of our ability and the best knowledge that we have at each time. Sometimes it doesn't change, sometimes after a few weeks, and sometimes it just changes the day after we make a decision. I don't think that there's no meaning in sitting on our hands and just waiting, but we're always trying to ensure moderate demean, balance ourselves, and try to get ahead of ourselves, guarantee some resistance without taking unnecessary risks from preventing them. This decision, which actually includes just a continuation of a decision already made about taking a certificate of vaccine and a certificate of serology, will be relevant. But we continue to be confined to outside situations that we have very little control over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u18	Mr. President. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to believe me, I don't suppose the government will interfere with events in other countries. I'm at the threshold of believing it's affecting the sequence of events here, but that's another story. I appreciate the answers. Of course it's complicated. Of course, there's a lot of uncertainty, but that's probably why I'm referring to the concept of expectation control. We know we have a very open community here, including ... fortheend of border shutdowns. There is now a need to open up on the border because there are interests in the world. I ask how these interests have been weighed and compared to the interests of those who are now living and working in us, despite everything, an open society in this country. It matters, especially if we speak for economic reasons. Information has been made that despite the great reduction in job and tourism activities, economic recession is less than fear. The likelihood is that the potential for produced by this sector is not as high as it had been thought. This is the information received from the government to be taken along the roads and assessed as different aspects of our great interests. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So again, I'd like to correct the question of whether this was somehow weighed together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u19	Mr. President. The expectation is that a vaccine is the way out of the situation. The decision to accept vaccinees or antibody recipients is a small risk that is not really sacrificing the interests of Icelanders, not sacrificing the interests of other professional groups, and not sacrificing the Icelandic summers that people see to hope to be bright and good. In fact, the environment is gaining weight. They will, and they will continue to do so with this decision. Of course, it might be the easiest board to say, "Hey, we're just not gonna take any action until we're absolutely certain of the rest. But I view it as simply a matter of conflicting mind, while being aware that we may need to change our mind or make a different decision. The expectation control is that vaccination is the way out of this, and the decision remains accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u20	A respectable president. Within a few days, the border has been diagnosed with a virus that has 50 to 660 cases, mostly the British virus. It's a concern because it seems that she's just coming in and she's in the community. The question is, should it be stopped? Should she be allowed in? I seem the highest. A health minister does not intend to take the final action, so we prevent it. But there is something more serious; this country's archipelago is knocking heavily on the eastern border, the Brazilian virus is knocking on it. And what is still serious, if it is true, is that you were sent aboard without knowing that ten of the 19 crews were infected. This man was on board for two or two and a half hours before he was allowed to know. The Brazilian virus can infect children, but what is even more serious about this Brazilian virus is that it is thought to be able to infect those who have previously received Covid. If that's true, we've come to a Russian roulette with the virus. We need to make sure this virus doesn't get in. I'm going to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: Is it not time for us to close the border for the next three to four months while we are finishing vaccination? Are we really going to drop everybody into the virus well? Looks like the highest. A health minister has some patches that have no adhesive tape. It's just some way of taking a chance. We have the tools today to stop this thing. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u21	President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. At this morning's government meeting, I introduced two measures that are designed to seal the border's defenses. On the one hand, they focus on the fact that all children will be taken into display on a border that has not been true in the past. We'll start with that. Second, we expect people who come from areas where the virus is most toxic in Europe to be in a habitable environment or in a disease - care center. These changes are in accordance with the suggestions made by a psychiatrist and are always about it as a matter of course. A senator named here, i.e. careful attention should be given to potential cross-border transmission, and especially as a result. One senator noted that we have reason to believe that this more advanced mutant species is involved. For example, Britain has been called the "Britain " and is also taught by Brazil, which is certainly higher, spreads more quickly and spreads more from children. Children are more infected, and young people are more infected. That's also a concern. The CDC has also suggested, which we have yet to discuss, and I have not yet taken sides, that everyone will be tested on the border, including those with some written certificate, whether it is a proof of vaccination, evidence of antibodies or a previous Covid infection, to assure us that the virus is not possible to be transmitted, despite the proof. These measures are of great importance to the prescriber. I think it's important that every action is deliberately attacked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. For safe regions and color code - Oslo is red; other locations in Norway are green. This isn't working. We can't follow a system like this. Most important of all, those who have been diagnosed with the virus and have received a certificate - it has already been found and analysed in this country by a person who has been infected with the virus long ago and who has a certificate. People who have been infected with the virus continue to be infected with it, even if they have proof. We're supposed to make sure people go to solitary, and we're supposed to take samples. The New Zealand has a period of 14 days, we can have it ten days, and then we won't let anyone into the land until after that. It has, for example. Show yourself with the sauerkraut ship, when the money is under - if it is true that they did not report when they entered the waters of land that they were infected on board. [[The president calls.]] We also know that there are a lot of people who are going to be here for four days, but they're supposed to be under siege for five days, how are they doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u23	A respectable president. Just because of the views presented in the queries, it is now suggested that the tourists who come from the most infectious areas of the world are in a contaminating environment. The same applies to those detected on the border by that type of infection, i.e. Mutants, that they're in isolation in a convalescent facility, so these are changes. But I just want to remind you, because of our verbal exchange here, mine and why. A senator, repeatedly concerning these matters, is the obligation of governments at all times to take a moderate measure of action. We do not have permission to the council, to the Constitution, to the democracy, to go forward with decisions that are not subject to subversive, reasoned and reasonable at any given time, and therefore here we are here to support the proposals of a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u24	A respectable president. Today, there is a considerable change in the management of nursing homes in the country where several nursing homes in the country are moving from four of the larger rural communities to the state. I'm not going to trace this change, but it's been an unnecessary stone, and I think the past few months would have been better for a total and work together. These changes may be wise, but I miss it and worry that this will happen without the exception of the discussion and policies on the welfare of nursing homes, how services to the elderly will be best served in each community, and how public funds will be most useful. So I ask, "What is the greatest view of the future? " Health Ministers and what policy and diagnostic work is now conducted by the government in connection with services to the elderly who need support in daily life? Has the project management to investigate the cost of nursing by November 1, 2020, returned results? Some of these rural communities, in whom changes are currently taking place, were in the role of an experimental organization society in which it was aimed at having one individual overlooking and integrating all services to the elderly in close society, such as social service, home care, and nursing facilities. What happens now in these communities? Will this service be divided again into two or three hands or has been organized from these experimental projects, and will experience continue to be used in the modeling of the ministry? And finally: From what is now and where it is all about to be replaced, would it not be important to give a good deal of time to ensure careful, balanced, thought - out management?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this group of subjects, which has been among the issues that have been on my side all my time as health minister. I would like to mention, then, specific steps that have been taken to reduce patient payment and that have been specifically directed to elderly persons who now have no pay for coming to the clinic, and the dental pay program of the State has been greatly increased. Because this is a question of policy development and analysis, special policy targets for the patients with brain insufficiency, I want to say that this is where we have a strategy that is already implemented. In particular, I would like to refer to the health of the elderly, who aims to increase their focus on health and health in general, both for prevention and for the better quality of life as the years go by. My vision of the jury, because this is a special question, is that we need to stress the health and prevention of health. However, for the elderly to live at home, we also need to put much emphasis on the prospect of living at home. There is increasing emphasis on nursing, and a variety of home - care services, flexible mornings, day - to - day activities that are specialized for groups with specific diseases, and then for decent living conditions at that time. A health conference now being announced this year, which will be the last time for me as a health minister, at least In this ideal period of time, health care is especially applied to the elderly and to this class of subjects. I hope that in my second answer, I will find out more about others. But this is very important, and it's very important that it's based on more intensive policy development and analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. Clearly, there's plenty to take, and I hope to get even more answers below. But I reiterate, isn't it time to pause, agree on the exchange of nursing homes from the local communities to the state? Although this meant a temporary budget for the government, it is almost certain that careful management would reduce the total cost of translocation. The project is about services to the residents of nursing homes, services in every community and the provision and use of public funds. In this assignment, nurses play a key role. Thus, a careful transfer to a large extent is about how to achieve a staff integration. In view of this, I consider the resolution of the World Health Committee of March 16 to be of great importance, which included: it encourages a view of the laws found in the laws on the legality of employees'rights to business ventures. [[The president calls.]] There are many examples of the passage that had already taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u27	A respectable president. The successful transfer of this activity is now being done, and it puts the interests of citizens and staff in place. I want to make sure of what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. The Senator also asked about a report that has been taught by Gylfi Magnússon. I suppose we'll be able to have a return meeting later this month, hopefully before Easter. I'd also like to say that here, because we're talking about this big and important group of subjects, and different aspects of our service to this group, that when we talk about strengthening and strengthening the service network around older people, the basic thing is to strengthen the position of our rural society. How vital it is that rural society is very effective in caring for the closer service to the elderly! Health services have been performed on the table of the health authorities, but I'm less sure. A senator noted that after giving basic schools and subjects of the disabled, the subject of the elderly was next in line. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, however, we need to unite and strengthen our communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u28	A respectable president. I just, as soon as this discussion is over, I just wanted to reiterate some of the points presented in the opinion of a lower part of the employment committee. There the management work is quite critical of all. In the introduction of the committee opinion, e.g. In view of the less than 2 memory, it has been clear from the beginning that the bill was incomplete. The next article will discuss a further assessment of less than 2 parts of the world. As a reminder, Section 2 shows that the declaration in the introduction shows that the point light has no correlation in the content of the bill. At this point, many have suggested in the reviews, and this has been shown to the committee's meetings and is important to look to them. We're not going down on that, I don't think everyone agrees that the support of public agencies to innovation is extremely important. It is very important that externals be very good, and efforts are made to direct them the resources or energy, the strength we have to strengthen innovation, in the right direction. Is there any question, then, of whether what is here being done is going to be the result? Other smaller items especially refer to one reference. Although other comments are addressed or described, the main reference is to one reference, the review by the evolutionist of the Neo-Equipment Corporation - I don't know how to write it, it's just to be in English, DT equipment or anything like that. There the bill is somewhat critical. It says, by permission of the president: Unfortunately, the current employment and innovation bill is for official support to innovation, on the same basis, in signed, without adequate diagnostic work of the provision of public funds to R&TH, inadequately compared to comparable systems in other countries, with no adequate cost analysis of planned changes to the field of technical research in the future, without having adequate consideration for other factors in the field of activity, and that's how it continues. It is then stated that 2 smaller things agree with these views, i.e. that the bill isn't working too well. The evidence shows that the bill is significantly altered by the majority of the committee and is therefore welcomed because it makes a significant improvement. Still, 2 smaller things feel that the goals set in Article 1 have not been sufficiently improved. the bill on how to promote and support innovation in the country. I would like to mention that I had an interesting conversation this weekend with a woman who is very knowledgeable in innovation and who has been studying for many years, even. researching algae and other such. In that conversation, we Icelanders should, in effect, be able to produce the fertilizer we need to apply to the ground. We should be able to become self-sustained about the fertilizer that farmers need, e.g. by using paralytics or algae that are derived from seawater or seaweed or any other type. Of course it's expensive today, but we're just supposed to put money and money on it so that we can become completely self-sustained, at least with this part of the agriculture, and then they're gonna get the witnesses on our farms that we can't get today because we're using the finished dust, so we're gonna mention it. I also have to say, Mr. President, since we're linking it only to this discussion here, of course, that farmers who do farming and farming, try to produce clean and good food, invest in their buildings, invest in improved farming, invest in growing their livestock, are ignored when they land in such a way as this. ... they'llcutdown. Still, farmers who lost all their money in Skavets have not been paid the compensation they should receive within 45 days of the Regulation. You wonder if there is any incentive for those who are in such a situation to start again, let alone trying to invest, create something new in their sector at the time of that event. This, of course, is a disgrace. Another lower part of criticism also notes that the forward trend in research has not been planned. In particular, according to this opinion, the important practical research that may fall outside contracts made there, etc. Another lower part would also like to call attention to the fact that the economic consequences of the changes proposed and when it comes to operating a technical site, but a budget has not been submitted for the mansion. Then, in the review of Iceland's University, less than 2nd section says that it is not safe to make society count on considerable amounts of competitive funds from outside the country. I intended, as mentioned at the beginning of my speech, to just skim at a big one about the committee opinion. I think it's very important that when governments initiate such important changes as presented here, their homework is at least done a little better. In fact, that work must be done much better because there is clearly a lack of vision and a lack of a person's resources. Now it has been part of the Committee to try to stop the holes that are there. In terms of less than 2 things, it has been successful but not sufficiently.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u29	Mr. President. Today is the northern country's day, and there is reason to remember it, and it did. President at the beginning of a meeting. This is an important partnership with the North countries and a reason to maintain it. Now, then, in the north, we will keep up with the demand for cooperation and mutual solutions. It's called in one way or another with the subject here today, the official bill for support of innovation. We need to remember that in order to create a powerful and modern welfare society ready to accept challenges for the future, we need many new rods and give them a chance to thrive or to be forgotten, not all sprouts become beautiful flowers. We need to be ready to experiment, perhaps not all of them succeed. It's the nature of innovation. We need to create an atmosphere and culture that fosters innovation by all means. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial and Neon has discussed it and yielded to the fact that innovation is not luxury, not luxury, it is life's necessities for us. That is correct, and those words need to apply, and we need to work hard and make sure that we are secure. Modern enterprises in all sectors recognize the need for innovation and development. It is self - esteem in everyday activities, really. This is true of pure - cultured scientific companies as well as commercial, industry, services, and creative activities. There is no doubt that a powerful and continuous investment in research and innovation will improve the competitiveness of nations like the small Icelandic nation to achieve the grand things that are already faced in the present, so that we do not talk about what we can look into the grim future. We stand at the threshold of the new century. Whether it is research or new environmental, energy, transportation, or health care solutions, this is true. You need to encourage individuals, I say individuals, to develop their own minds on a valuable product. For individuals, seeds are produced. Most pioneers have in common the need not to have money but only good ideas, some perhaps, and enthusiasm. It's important that young and well-educated people have the possibility of making a living and setting up a field for their research and innovation in this country. This requires setting the foundation, safe shelter, and space. We need to make sure that innovation and wanding can have the opportunity to expand the country. The National Association has expressed great concern about what is taking place in these circumstances when a new bill is introduced, and the New Creation Centres are no longer available. On the part of the national community, it has been made clear that the plans presented in the bill are not set out clearly and that the focus is not sharp. There are huge interests in creating a powerful support system for innovation in the country. It is called to promote the basics of innovations with flexible support systems and strong links to the academic environment, job life, and to those of interest. All of this is somewhat vague, as the bill is presented. Unfortunately, there is no strong vision of the future of innovation in Iceland in the present bill. As noted in the Committee's panel 1, a smaller part of the employment committee is mainly responding to the Minister's decision to destroy Iceland's New Creation Centre and establish the National Technical Environment Agency, which is also the subject. Of course, building a technological site is a step forward, but the building has more responsibilities than a new creation center. New births happen in every sector. Colleges are examples of the drive of innovation and knowledge, but at the same time, there must be an environment where pioneers and wands are at jobs that have not been used by defined university education, because intelligent, intelligent women, intelligent people spring from many types of soil. It is a challenge to activate these forces, to process them, and we need to create a setting that enables these people to survive. In Iceland, there are seven universities all over the country. The arrival of a university in the region of this preaching work is inexplicable. So innovationism must be social. It's a way to open up and create a new perspective, a new demand. New birth policy needs to come from people who are aware that innovation is not the private property of those who have access to the wealth of businesses or the university alone. It needs to be part of our daily culture, and experienced in families in the countryside, in the city, in elementary schools, in public schools, and in private citizens, in all of this. Mr. President. A modern - day center has no history, and the question is, What has been the purpose of the foxes? That's a big question. For what purpose is a solid and established institution laid down by a man and a mouse divided into atoms? The answers seem quite vague and confused. The bill's report employs such sentences as the need to reduce surface development and increase flexibility so that public funds will be most useful to assigned projects. This is a sound argument, a good and true word; but, contrary to it, do they keep water? There have been many comments about this bill that have been given a lot of warning to this vision and that do not work. A new legal arrangement involves the application of work that the public is required to do or should do, and it is placed on the shoulders of others, with a somewhat vague and random way. This will simply have the result that developing projects requiring a lot of technical knowledge and development may be reduced. It is noted that the support of the ideas and projects in the form of knowledge, to suggest research repair or status, and to shorten information processes is an inexpensive and necessary means of achieving the aim of creating valuables, creating new environments, creating grounds for us to continue, maintaining those countries that are mostly around us. I named the northern countries of the past, who have an arrangement that is exemplary in many ways. Mr. President. Concerns about the degradation of Newborn centres are ongoing, for what is taking place is not clear. We're there with the seeds, and we can't throw them to rocky ground, throw them out. There are many of our opportunities, and our limitations are just the imagination, the imagination, the creative force. Happily, we have bold pioneers and thinkers, many of whom need understanding and support. That support is not yet guaranteed, even as it is now possible that a vision is lost. These financiers, full of ideas, need prenups on grant applications, and there the government should be active and not controlled. There's a lot at stake. Strength is many, not just within the country, but perhaps primarily abroad because good ideas overflow all borders. It is difficult to apply, create good applications, and it is in fact in the power of professionals to apply and make good applications that work. We also have good people at our jobs, but we need to create the possibility that we can bring these parties together. Mr. President. They're doing some service with pioneers and wand companies that are taking their first steps without a clear image being drawn up and careful analysis is behind them and not just some dream vision, I might not say some political ideologies. Those involved cannot afford to pay high sums for counseling and situation, and this will in no way result in the formation of fewer innovation companies. Of this, no one knows, but we may still miss opportunities. Mr. President. There's a lot of stuff that's going to sting your eyes. So where did the idea of shutting down the New Creation Center, deep - seated, fully active, in the midst of a financial crisis come from? And this is done without having a completely bulletproof plan and fully advising and that a minister has already made sure that he has left behind but may not be above himself. What is the direct benefit of the total slaughter of the New Creation Center? It must be considerable, the requirement for economics to be made, and the clearness of it, must be clear and clear. According to the Ministry, direct donations from the State Fund to the New World Translation Centres are now over 700 million. K. every year. The government's cost is expected to be 655 billion at the end of the Agency and its reassignments. K. in 2021. Of these, the cost of closure is about 305 million. K. But as far as fear is concerned, no one knows. It is written more and less in the clouds. It is important to maintain that fact, and it may be obvious and not have to be put into words that a job such as the Creation Centre is not just an expense. As we have seen, the work and project in the nature of its investment in ideas and to draw attention to projects designed to increase in value, to develop, and to spread into the whole community. That is why the innovation work and the innovation center truly have social value. Then, when a job is successful, it makes a lot of jobs. It is usually appreciated and appreciated. For example, the headquarters of the New Creation Centres has produced a number of wands. Today, there are probably about 400 of them still active and likely hundreds of millions of dollars each year. In the country, innovation and other occupations are being developed in a large way by the power that is available. Of course, I'm best known in my own economy, where technical knowledge is high in many places, and business has grown out of being a procrastinator in a global high - tech business. However, all jobs in the country struggle to compete in the capital area and, in fact, beyond that, on a global scale. The country has more costs and resources for high transport costs and intermediate transport, whether in the sea or in the country, and there is one form of publication. It is a different challenge to deal with innovation and science and development in the country or the capital area. Yet, the key is that the scepters will flourish in this time of the whole country. Most spherical companies have at some point received support and support, research, development, or other payments, mainly of the New World Translation Centres. In most cases, those serving in the country around the country testify that in most cases they do not. They seem to be having a more difficult time making money for development and innovation. Some say that their credibility in the country is not even the same as that of those who work closer to those who give strength, they are more visible, familiar. Trust and faith in an assignment missing. It is often a thought - provoking feature of applications, and this may make a difference. Mr. President. The number of government workers in the country has decreased, and this includes this sector. It is now, for example. A new creation center has fallen, which has supported a small starter company with knowledge and guidance on research grants, which have responded considerably to this difference. This should not be avoided with regard to this. It is also shown at high travel costs when expert knowledge has to be sought to the key southern institutions, as is now likely to occur. Some of the country's knowledge centres point out that it does not seem to be expected of any State's access to infrastructure and services outside the capital area. Rather, it is presented in a paper with the bill plan for an increase in funds for the project fund. It is noted that one of the priorities of the national support systems of innovation is precisely involved in the invasion of innovations and pioneers, and that this must occur in several parts of the country. This is not achieved by establishing yet another competitive fund, which is to be used by a local or regional body to manage and distribute into temporary and limited tasks. What is needed is regular and regular service and facilities in the country for employment, pioneers and general population in each area. It is an enormous point, Mr. President, that we are able to increase the number of people with expertise in the country's areas, expand our knowledge base and increase the potential for research and porting. It's a hard fight. Money is a limited resource. There's the site of development and community centers throughout the country that play a key role, just like the melts for ideas and innovations. Here we need to move forward and not hesitate. In view of the government's contributions to innovation as a share of public expenses, it is clearly seen how the support has fluctuating the focus of the last governments. So the strength has been more fluctuated here than in other parts of the North countries, where they remain stable between governments and do not make any sudden changes. It's very important. It is remarkable to think that in 2009, at a time when we reached a climax in a most challenging and critical time in the state of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, we reached a climax. We haven't completely secured our weapons yet, but we're approaching the Northland average. Mr. President. With regard to this bill, it is the opinion of the above saying that an excess was taken without the use of great interests as a guide, to strengthen the foundation, to strengthen the setting. Here it has been chosen without careful analysis to make large decisions of loose conduct. It seems here that a bat is taken over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u30	Madam President. Hv. In his speech, a senator rightly said much. But there was one thing I cut as I am not quite sure that I agree with him, and I wanted to have a word with him about it, i.e. the question is, is there any purpose of trying to save money in the business of the individual institutions - in this case, of putting the New World Translation Centre into thinking and then starting something new that has a vaguely established order, etc. and could possibly save some small amount of money despite apparently the other way - is in itself a legitimate goal. For a few decades, we have been fighting a little bit with a certain political party, as a boy. S. The Brjánsson Brjánnsson is not a member, has given much weight to the idea that any government business might somehow cost as little as possible, no money may ever be costed, and, above all, the level of service should be reduced, especially if there is somehow a possibility that the ministry can be considered to a private person. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress: Could it be that this argument, which I think was merely adopted in some pastime, may be just wrong, that there are even advantages and opportunities in investing in society, investing in community institutions, and that sometimes it can cost money to build up society?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. I mentioned the amount that has been thrown up here about saving by shutting down the Creation Centre. I don't remember any better than I remember. A minister mentioned that he was going to return to the treasury fund of some 300 million. But this, of course, is a misinformed discussion. We have to spend more money for innovation, we're investing for a long time. Of course, our goal is not to be saving, that is a mistake of approach. We know the response of our neighboring countries. They're all investing in innovation and placing large sums of money, especially in these times, on environmental options and innovations of all kinds, which are considered to be a growing line for the future. In addition, I believe that there is no evidence to show how financial saving or economic management is achieved by bringing down the New World Translation Center. I don't think it has been conclusively established, and I'm not sure how Iceland's innovations, its frameworks, will be supported by the actions proposed by the Minister in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u32	Mr. President. I'm glad we're on a similar line with this. It is an incredibly foolish tendency to assume that the accounting efficiency of the state's institutions is some kind of standard of social efficiency for society in general. This, of course, is nonsense. At least I don't understand how the state, which has expenses of about 1,000 billion each year will be a better thing for society to save 300 million for innovation. I just can't see. In contrast, it is well - known what is said in English, with president's permission: 'You have to ask us to make love money.' You have to spend money to make money. If this is only seen from a very narrow capitalistic viewpoint, then society must never spend money to improve society. But it seems that all these companies, all these cool companies that have been built in Iceland through the years, are in some way an inheritance of the government laying for money and providing some kind of support, and had these tools in their hands. In any case, it would be interesting to see if there was a greater possibility of future cool business because we managed to save 300 million. But otherwise, I'm primarily just rolling it up and praying. A senator to think about this with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the second answer. Of course, these issues are burning, and there should be the top priority in this situation, when we are rising up vigorously after a blow, and opportunities to look to the future, to consider the society we can expect to build up. In a few things, this is obvious, but in other matters it is not. One is that we need to promote innovation based on factors far different from those we have based on recent decades. Exciting solutions are waiting in that area, so it is important to be in touch with the university environment and the high school environment also because high school is now around the country that doesn't have courses of education, and much more roads are involved in intelligent thinking. However, regarding the changes now taking place with the demolition of the New Creation Centre, it must be noted that the Creation Centre was not a perfect institution. The work there was to be found. But the Agency was way too much to spend. The Agency could have been changed, replaced, and taken in, depending on the changing times and seasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u34	A respectable president. For the second time, I'm going to discuss these two issues we're discussing, official support for innovation and technology funds. In my second speech, I would like to discuss some of the things I believe in in Iceland and the Ministry and the Supreme Ministry. Ministers have certain blindness. One of these is actually what has been mentioned many times in the job committee meetings, that is, the fact that innovation does not consist of technical projects or so - called STEM branches, i.e. Real science and technology. Of course, they have great implications for innovation, but they must not forget that innovation involves doing something new in its nature. There are new things to happen in human society that do not involve science and technology. One simple example is a work called the Tree of Life, and I draw attention and can learn more about the website of the Scarf.is. It's an example of a innovation project that is certainly relevant to information technology, but the basis is not technical, but is primarily innovation. We need to keep an eye on this. I expect more to be discussed in the afternoon. Likewise, as shown in the Space Iceland review of this case, not only is innovation a university project. However, as important as university education is, especially in fact, so - called STEM articles, there are innovations without a university education in the foregrounds or even the background. In particular, in Iceland we have a relatively prosperous software field, one that is actually from which the person here comes, and although university education is of course useful to people in their sectors like other sectors after it is an example of a new industry on historical standards where university education is not really needed. You can gain much more than sufficient knowledge of software by simply accessing online material in infinite quantities, or as good as it is. Of course, I'm not minimizing the importance of university education but merely saying that we must not consider innovation to be limited to the STEM or university branch because it is not. If we limit innovation to these factors, we eliminate opportunities beyond them. Then I would also like to discuss, regardless of the specific issues presented here today, how the authorities'attitudes can be prevented by opportunities that might arise and that we should make use of, and the authorities should see that they can be used when they arise. A few years ago, here was a new project called the 'Jung Barones, some form of energy that was made from insects, which seems novel, and I'm well aware that people may at first think it's strange. But in view of that idea, it turns out to be great. There is a lot of protein that can be made with extremely low energy and with extremely low and potentially no negative impact on the environment. Now I have to admit that my understanding is that this project has failed to succeed, without my recent observation, but at the time it was that the members of the Icelandic government were hit on a wall. Then it turned out that there was some kind of regulation that made this a terrible problem in Iceland. If the new creation thinking here were right, our system would have put it under control and tried to correct the rules that were in force to make the project possible rather than resist it. It's just an example. Then there are situations in which the system, or State, or authorities may not directly interfere, but they do not recognize possible opportunities. There I will mention a fine council of Congress from Pirata on carnivores, which is now under consideration. A professional health committee. I have to say in the process that at a time when the current storm is at hand. 11th. Smoke. For example, Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was a deputy of the last term, and he asked the then highest court. The minister of Sigurður Jóhannsson went to carnivore, and it seemed like a strange subject. It seemed that it was so that the highest. A minister would not have heard of this which is good and blessed. But now it's been quite many years, and the opportunity is open, and it might be possible to spit on your hands and try to study it better, as the only comment that comes with the case suggests because it is an opportunity for Iceland to use or at least it is possible. As a result, the synopsis proposal to explore carnivore status and plan the implementation of agriculture technology with the intention of starting meat farming. There should be no doubt about the potential opportunities to cultivate meat without any impact on the environment, especially climate change. Then I want to make one thing a special subject, and I realize that maybe the person here is starting to sound a bit like a broken record and as if it's the only thing I think is new. But it isn't. We have a certain blind spot for innovation in Iceland, a respectable president, and one of the blind spots is the space industry. Once again, I remind myself that although Iceland is a small country with few people compared to the great world, surely the Soviet Union is a soul or the United States or China, we are offered international cooperation in the space industry and it is the European Space Agecy of English, short - tailed ESA. At this time, the General's resolution to apply for involvement in the related analysis of costs and commitments is simply in effect. There was also a bang. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson asking in February to the highest degree. Secretary of State on the situation, and I look forward to getting the answer to that inquiry and thank you. A senator for volunteering it. But that is how a respectable president, whether people believe it or not, that there is already a space industry in Iceland. He's not very big. He could use more support. He would do well for the authorities to take some view of the group they don't have, perhaps because we in Iceland have believed that we are too small a country to participate in this industry or this science. Of course, a dignified president is as absurd as being too small to be involved in software, physics, or weather, or geology or psychology or the law that follows the space industry, a respectable president. There are also fields and fields outside the STEM articles in space science. In fact, there is very little in human society that if it does, has nothing to do with space science. In 2020, last year, a Scottish company, Skyrora, launched a experimental missile shot by Langanesi. That was two years old. The delegates attended, and they were very interesting to see the rocket coming up for a few seconds. It's the first time we have a rocket launched in Iceland for over 50 years. I hope this experiment is going to be more than Skyrora planning to try two more shots in the next few hours and hopefully they'll be in Iceland. We'll see about that. This company also generates rocket fuels from plastic waste, one of which Iceland may be in a very good position to arrive where there is an abundance of renewable electricity needed to produce aircraft fuels from supplied waste. The answer is an Icelandic company that won the ESA Coopers Masters in 2018. It was only discussed in the news back then. Above all, there is Space Iceland, which is an interest organization that submitted a review of these matters, which, in fact, is quite extensive, it is 45 pages. Finally, I wanted to go into what is involved in the European NASA of Astronomy and try to comfort the Icelanders in particular, to convince us that we have business to do there and to benefit from our cooperation. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to wait for the speech to come over because of a lack of time. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u35	President. Despite my careful study of this matter and listening to the discussion, I still don't understand why Iceland's New World Power Center has not been put into the picture. There's been a lot of work there in the past few years, and I'd rather have known that this way would be helping that center to develop. The New World Environment in Iceland is very manly and monotonous and it is not stated in this bill that action should be taken to reverse that trend. When I say manly things, I mean, a great deal of emphasis is placed on so - called high - tech technology. It is an article that simulates men, saying that some final product that has the potential to make a lot of money, so that investors, which are usually men, can make money. I draw attention to the fact that I am aware that I am being tried to increase the diversity of the university's institutions, which teach technical or engineering, but better if possible. What I'm trying to communicate is that the innovation environment in Iceland is very manly, i.e. Much emphasis is placed on making things fast. There is much emphasis on creating a highly established idea that should be put into a final product and that you should be able to persuade investors to invest in you and this idea. Of course, it sounds good to say that Iceland is going to be number one when it comes to producing technology. CCP has e.g. Often this is a wonder from Iceland. But with all due respect to the companies that have achieved far over the years on the subject of ideas and innovations in non-high-tech fields. Being in the first place among the nations may involve promoting society because society is so much more than just technical solutions and not all technology - related problems can be solved. Society development will occur when we allow ourselves to imagine a different future. This may involve promoting innovation within the brain science or social science. Idea builds up the systems in which we create and live. Why Not Use the Knowledge We Have, including In Iceland's innovation centre, to allow pioneers to think outside the box further? Studies are not unique in technical terms. If that were the case, we might as well put together almost half of Iceland's University if we really believe it. Societys that distinguish themselves are those who allow themselves to form a different system, so it may be necessary to give people space to think and talk to other people. To a greater extent, I would like to see innovation grants directed to ideological ideas, e.g. The idea of child development by communities or of burning down the fatherly empire. How are we going to get to that place if we don't allow thinkers to thrive, whether it's in a mental, social, or technical field? Why not base on the knowledge that was present and that is primarily among the nations in the welfare and upbuilding community pursuits? Indeed, technology has improved our living conditions and can be fun. But what community and goals do we want this technology to serve?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u36	Mr. President. We're discussing a bill on official support for innovation. The bill includes a change in support arrangements; we can call it a colony around innovation. The entire pack of metals is that much effort is needed. I believe in itself the spirit of the bill is not bad at all. I think it is with the reform of innovations like other things that we need to keep ever alert to the fact that it is designed so that it will come in the best possible way. New creations, technology and science are matters of great national interest, of our very future, of the long-term progress of the nation's economy, of great importance to future living, of the importance that we can secure more stability in Icelandic society, of a variety of careers that can be the basis for exporting many services, products, and knowledge. So there is an enormous amount of money under here. I have repeatedly pointed out that this is a lawsuit that should always be taken seriously. We're always supposed to be discussing these subjects. We must always look for the best way to achieve these issues. It is once so that we are accustomed to a highly swinging economy. This is especially so because through the centuries we have enjoyed a monotonous career. That's what we all know. Here was a farming community, and then we developed into the practical use of very little resources, such as fishing the resources that we are lucky to have around us. We have the practical energy and, of course, we have a service and we've got all kinds of industry. We have a large industry, a variety of details, and in recent years, we have been able to build up sectors that are proud of which we fall into the category of technology, innovation, and research that are well - founded. But we need to do much better. It is often the flaw in our careful research that we lose a bit of focus and attention to these matters. There's a lot of examples of this. Of course, we know that following the 2008 financial crisis, there was an almost new industry, at least to the measure that has been testified, which is the travel service. She grew here on, we can say, amazing speed. It produced much for building up in a modern society, and of course it is well. But as long as things were going well, we forgot about the new creation again. That doesn't mean we haven't done anything. We have done some things well, but as we have already seen, we need to do better so that we can benefit from the benefits without doubt of success. We can name the classics that have come into existence, and we're proud of and have grown internationally and are in the lead in their area. When most of them are examined, it becomes evident that they have taken considerable time for these companies to grow and thrive, even decades. These types of companies are rarely shaken out of memory. Of course, there are exceptions, and companies are doing so well in this field with new knowledge, new technologies based on science, that it takes a few years to achieve significant results, making a lot of money. Iceland and I have not many examples of this, but we certainly do. But there are exceptions. It takes hard work and great patience to get serious problems, and that is where we need to improve. We do so through the general setting. We also do so with public access to some extent. It is natural that the public should first make sure that there is an exemplary setting, legal environment, education, and setting. They also need to make sure that this system is funded, both direct corporate funding at initial levels, strengthens to pay the street to become candidates for the support of the growth and progress of these enterprises. We have made some progress in these matters, so you can now praise what has been done well, even though some of them took a long time. But what I have generally felt down when these issues are discussed is that people think too soon. New creation is a long - running, often said, and that is true. What is important for companies and individuals who wish to follow this course can be seen as far ahead of time in terms of access to facilities, funding, and funding as possible. Of course, not all ideas are that they are successful or that whatever ideas are worthy of the government's uncircumcised support, many of which do. And now, in this business, it is known that only part of the concept reaches this great flight will become these unicorns, sometimes spoken of. Others are very successful, others small, and still other companies are not successful. But this is the environment, and we know it's safe here, and I don't even know if I can use it for word, cost of sacrifice, but the nature of this operation is, so some things work, and some things don't. But we need to face the situation. When this happened e.g. that, of course, economic growth had begun to decline, and storm clouds had begun to rise as early as 2019, but then Covid came at full weight, had to resort to various economic measures, natural. It was normal to intervene, and many of the government's provisions were excellent and supported by the smaller parts and focused primarily on emergency provisions and survival to help companies and households who faced great problems. But one of the things that had soon begun to talk about, and is very consistent with what I was talking about earlier, was that the need for innovation was now to be stressed. Once again, there was a crisis, and the strength of the cliff is a novelty. Yes, it was good to do so. However, the measures taken around the innovations were completely burned out for temporary purposes. These were temporary requirements, e.g. In terms of an increase in corporate spending due to research and development costs. These provisions were made for the benefit of all the provisions, which was done for two years. The latter part of that period is beginning to drop. There were also changes made, e.g. With regard to the pension fund, they were given extra space to share in the funds of a common investment, as it is called, often called indexes. There was supposed to be two years in the first place, but the result was that the economic and business committee that discussed it extended it to January 1, 2025. Yet, this is the same short - term thought. For a common investment or so - called index fund, there is a limited period of work, which is the first step toward raising funds. Then the funds begin to invest, and then they close for further investments, follow their investments, with further support of the fund's growth and life span, and then they are usually dissolved. What needs to be is a stack of such funds so that each one can replace another. There's gotta be some. Sealike conditions usually have special characteristics, may be specialized according to the level of growth in companies. They can also be specialized according to the activities of the enterprises involved. All of this is essential to maintaining this environment so that the innovation and funding can continue despite the economic fulfillment of something. We need so much to change Icelandic employment from relying on a few additional sensitive jobs. We see that a voyage in the sea can have a powerful effect on the sea resources. We can also see that and have learned from bitter experiences now that it is not too difficult to do so, even though it has been extremely harsh now, to make travel a shock. It should not be that we have so few and large articles that, in time, can cause evil - not the articles themselves - but the trauma - to Iceland's economy. This is a very big interest issue that's underneath when we're talking about all this. That's why I just want to reiterate that we have a lot of thinking to do. It's gonna take us a long time to get this through, and we're supposed to face it. Therefore, we should take steps to make sure that those in this environment at least that the next ten years will be some specific procedure. While you may be inclined to reevaluate a course that is, of course, constantly being revised, you will always see a certain point in the future as you begin your journey. This is of utmost importance to bring about fertile soil for science, technology, and innovation. We see that we have so much to do, we can do so much in this regard. We can not only build on what is common in Iceland but also have many of the things that we have done in connection with the sea route or that are derived from or that have originated there. We have done less in practical ways, for example. energy issues. It's a little strange that we don't have any more products or equipment related to energy efficiency and energy efficiency, heat plants and the like. It's a bit intense that Danir is, for example. Heat control systems and ovens and cantinis for ovens and swallowing with hot water. We don't have anything like that. I always find it a little strange that we couldn't have gotten ourselves some floor there. This is one of the sides of the coin, i.e. We can use our existing strengths to draw from them. Marel, of course, is a fine example of this, which is rooted in the innovation of marine waters or marine resources, and it has reached a wide range of opportunities for food production, perhaps to become a minority of their activities. Then we have other companies that have arisen in unlikely places. It is nearly one company, such as Assur, which has become a very big business worldwide and is rooted in almost one person who created artificial members. Then we have a business like CCP, which is very important in the game industry. Its background is quite intriguing in many respects. We once had a company called Oz, and we believed a great deal in which it was very far-fetched, let's say, was posing a variety of techniques and a possibility of virtual reality. It did not quite work, but since then an amazing number of other enterprises have been born, including the very CCP. So having growth in all of this is of utmost importance to us and I think we can make a much more meaningful improvement in measures and visions in these matters, especially if we have the patience and vision needed to do so. Then I will not worry that we will be successful in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u37	A respectable president. In recent years, we have been trying to help governments understand the importance of innovation. Hv. Just as a senator has worked relatively hard to make changes and to increase his energy in what he mentioned in his talk about the index and the like, which is certainly needed in an Icelandic innovation environment. But like a dog. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy came into his speech at the beginning of the discussion, and this bill is destroying the first phase of innovation in Iceland, that is taking away the bioavailability that people have had to the first three stages of innovation, as it was said here, while we have certainly been building a more expansive environment. It's good and good, but taking away the roots is an amazing step. But we went against it. At the beginning of the epidemic, a senator and his class and other groups of the government opposition were to be put up with increased power in the innovation environment to cope with the epidemic. I wanted a attitude like that. A senator, with his new creation experience and his emphasis on the index fund, for the way we could do better, e.g. Hopefully on this bill, but if not immediately by some other means create a platform for the basic innovation activity that is being destroyed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson is very grateful for the counterargument. Yeah, it's not all very simple. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that I've talked quite a lot about the index and funding they have found, which I believe are extremely important, and he's absolutely right that they don't come to these matters until business is only beginning to prove themselves and have come up on something. But I have also talked about how important it is that funds such as technology are sustained and active. I think that technology funds have shown this and have proved that just at most early stages, it is so important to have access to funding systems as well. For my career, I have benefited from a technology fund, and I have received strength from my colleagues at a time called Seed. Then we had an idea of a napkin almost, but we needed help. That's extremely important. I agree with that, and there may be the fault on this excellent bill here that people decide to take steps to take away a little bit of an existing system without thinking fully about what to take. I think that's the biggest fault. You need to know what they're going to do, and I think it's a little bit off in this fancy bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u39	President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. That's what a senator does. This is exactly what we have without knowing what to replace. This bill is the indicator of what might be replaced. It is rather obvious, though, that this is actually a very meaningful bill when it comes to all the circumstances that will occur in the early stages of innovation. The sooner the situation, the better, for it is now calling for basic innovation and ideas. There are plenty of people out there. I'd like to talk to you about something else in the bill, which is the extent of this level, which may be the index fund, etc. with Kristains, for example, 100 million a year, an entire total of 100 million. As noted in the review of Space Iceland, this refers to one pair house in the capital area of the year, the region is competing for a share. How far will this bring us back at that stage of innovation? There are not many projects after all, for at this point the share is usually costing much more than it does at any early stage. There's another problem with this bill, I think. True, something is starting, but these are so small that more people will really be hungry after this. When you do not get enough food, the problem becomes much more extensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u40	Mr. President. Wasn't it a legend back in the day that nobody could be a poet but starving with hunger? So, then, would it not be the theory that no one can be a proper pioneers or that they can do well in this article except starve a violent hunger? No, it's not like that, of course. Of course, it's all about so many things, and it may not have to be emptied. But one thing is to create an environment of some sort, an environment where those with new ideas and thinking about how to do this and get somewhere else to get inspired and associate with people. I think ideas of some kind of innovation parks, let's call them, be very clever. On the other hand, I also have to watch out for it, and I have sympathy by that viewpoint, not building up a very heavy-stempered system that changes to some extent or can go, and I'm not pointing at one or anyone, turning around itself. There's always something that a man must have behind his ear. But I agree with what. A senator that it is very important that all these ills of creative people can somehow find their strength and natural that the public will be involved in the establishment and the subsequent acts of financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u41	Mr. President. Now I'm a good hit. It's all over here. A senator's last answer is to talk about not being allowed to sit on too heavy an established system. That's exactly what I wanted to ask him. Molecular systems may be a bit like innovation projects themselves. There are many threads that need to be drawn together. That's why the system may be too heavy to get through. The innovation system needs to be a platform for conversation between the educational community and the educational system, the state and rural groups, the labour market, companies, and all of these have to be met somehow and people have common goals. I think we can all agree that our present environment is not perfect. I don't think anyone in this discussion has any doubts about it. Hence, it may have been a normal first step to look to people in this business who are people who work all day long to get and share ideas. Perhaps it would have been a better step than saying, "We're going to lay down a New Creation Center. I would like to ask: With the vision offered by these changes, I would like to take the conversation that takes place at the scene of the Creation Centre and move to include. A technical site that is a new kind of tool in this environment, a private part of the State, have we not gone too far in one direction to discuss this central conversation between these countless different parties? Is the government there possibly out of control a little bit?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Andrés Ingi Jónsson is so excited about this. Yeah, that's a good question. I think it's true that we're always looking for a way to create an environment, let's call it, a system where you can look more and less in some sense at one place to get a service, a release or assistance, and that's, I think, reasonable. Of course, we have what we need. A senator mentioned, building up all kinds of things because we're a little helpsome. If someone is complaining or has a good idea, then it is initiated, perhaps without even looking at the bigger picture. Of course, we have many systems, organizations, and phenomena that have that role. We have national programmes, we have industrial development societies, we have a new creation center, we're putting up here all kinds of technical parks and scientific parks. We're accepting cluster policy, and we have all kinds of good plans, and some of it seems to overlap. I don't mean to have any scaffolding that it's always impossible, but it's funny that you think you could do better. But to answer a question, why? I believe that it is always wise to seek advice from those who are serving and who are to enjoy the ministry before making decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u43	Mr. President. I'd like to roll it up with a little bit of what. A senator whether we are in a number of different matters is drawing up the real modern - day government policy. Some time ago, we introduced something called a innovation policy, perhaps at the edge of the line that can be called a real innovation policy. But what we have experienced in the past year - and it knows why. A member of the people's staff is best able to contribute more money directly to basic research and innovation in the past few months in response to Covid as part of the demand for Covid - is that this fund has been added and also in basic research, but it would have been so easy to add much more, and it would have worked. We wouldn't have been throwing money into the void. This would have produced direct results in new and exciting projects that would build up the economy in the years to come. Consider another example. Now it's time to bring a bill to the council, where the Scientific and Technical Council will be converted to the Scientific and Neonewing Council. But at the same time, the combination of the Council should be changed so that the link that makes Scientific and Technical Council will be as powerful as it really is, e.g. Contact with the educational community. The Council of Science and Development calls for a Minister's Committee, not a variety of people, but only for a group of government conferences two times a week. It is suddenly time to meet for some other merits and to be the fertile soil of innovation in the community. I wondered if we are confronted with the overall picture the government is drawing up right now that innovation may be a keyword rather than a real policy with a input that also appears in the fact that this bill is called a bill to legalize public support for innovation but is anything but that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. Yes, keywords -- I think we should, in any case, be very careful not to look at innovations, technology and science without realizing that this is a complex and broad matter. I think we need to be very careful not to view this as a beautiful word that we use at a festival and speak a little loud, but forget to consider, of course, the practical reality of the work that, of course, is important. What governments are primarily supposed to do is try to create a frame, set the goal of spending money on the project, and arrange for others to be encouraged to put money on these projects. Without the fact that I've studied plans for any kind of change. A senator named them two things. Of course, it is very important that the government put this into practice and seriously settle matters by meddling with them, by means of a minister's arrival. But I think three ministers, or how many they may become, as some of the most successful executives in these developments may not be the most suitable or the most sensible thing to do. [[The president calls.]] I'm just going to say it isn't strong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u45	President. I don't make comments with the President's work at my time, but I'd like to direct it to the president to such discussions, issues that are as controversial as this matter is, it's much more likely to succeed if there's a participation in the discussion on both government and administrative issues. Now, in each speech after another, very serious comments have been made to these bills, especially the first bill, and the need for them to be addressed in a political process is not to paralyze them, and there is really bad laws here under cover that people do not wish to represent. I hope to the highest. The president agrees with me that it is necessary for us to get someone to speak this case if we are to get a gang here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u46	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that it's a little bit odd that the government doesn't put up with the room and defend this case. It's not just this bill that's bothering you, it's the one leading to it. It is an unpleasant approach to all the people who work in the Creation Centre and all the people who rely on its services to bring forward the announcement in January of the year that the Agency would be put down and then waited and waited and never found out what to do, how to protect the introduction of innovation in just the year in which innovation is the way ahead, the year in which this party must be stressed, in order to get society out of the economic breakdown following Covid. I understand that people don't want to stand in this room because the bill is handless. The bill shows that this has not been thought of. [[The president calls.]] There has been no thought of how to strengthen innovation in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But people have to answer to bad decisions too, not just the good ones in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u47	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u48	Mr. President. In my speech last Thursday on this subject, I talked a lot about the big movie as to why it's a completely defective bill, and then I'm talking about a bill about government support for innovation. I may not have spent enough time talking about the parallels and contrasts, which is how to build a new environment in Iceland. I've thought a lot about these past few days because it's important that we answer that question in a useful way. In all the discussions, whether in favor of this lousy bill or against it, everyone is giving the same examples of how we want to see innovation in Iceland. Then people point to certain classical companies that have ever been - someone would use the term America's shoreline, companies that have achieved tremendous success in their fields, have huge export costs, have enormous growth and are the image of what we want to see more in Iceland. There is Marel, of CCP, about Icelandic genetics. [[Take it up for one more time.]] Yeah, and Össur and more and more. You can talk about an amazing number of these companies. I may now have been a bit critical of the seabed throughout the years, but it is still totally justified to mention some of their enterprises in the same context because they have huge innovations within them as well and in reality just wherever you look in Icelandic society it is these large companies on Icelandic standards, relatively small in international standards, but large here, that shape what the future will be like. In a talk earlier, there was a reason. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, the company of Oz, is very good to discuss in this context. It's a company that, despite not reaching its goal in virtual reality at the time - I just remember as a teenager to have heard of this company doing so cool things and was really doing it then - became a source of so much knowledge and so much of what we've built on ever since. It has often been said that the company CCP actually arose from the lessons and lessons learned in Oz. It is good to think of CCP in this context because at the time CCP arose, there was no such thing in Iceland as the video game industry. I don't have a number recently, but I don't know better than that in Iceland today, there are in the video game industry and most of them are formed and run by former CCP employees who have decided to go their own way, based on experience and knowledge they've got there. In this way, new creation companies are determined to move, producing not only wealth in the form of profit and work but also knowledge for new generations. Then you might ask yourself, " Is there no better way to build up such a business and a mass production of such a business than to destroy the environment that led to their initial development? ' Now I don't know exactly what factors contributed to Marel's success or success or the success of Icelandic genetic analysis or CCP. But it is clear that there was something that worked, and I don't know that in the conniving process of this case, a conversation occurred with the leaders of these major innovation companies of the country on what was causing them success, what could have caused them problems, or even caused them problems, whatever problems were most difficult for them, and even any problems they were familiar with that led to other innovations for killing evil. It is clear that there was something that worked here, and I have often criticized that the innovation environment here is incredibly weak compared with many other countries. Somehow, however, these companies managed to get on course, mostly, I think, in the power of enormous efficiency and good ideas, while the government somehow supported one of these companies. If we're looking at the timeline of the largest, most fancy innovations in Iceland, maybe we'll see that every ten years, one big thing comes, pretty much. I think that's an excellent average. How would we set this bill if our objective wasn't just 300 million? K. Resources, cuts, and poor systems for all, especially the smallest companies that need the most help, if the goal was to double the rate of major, fancy innovation companies, i.e. Instead of regularly presenting them every ten years, do they occur every five years? What would be the change in the bill then? Would it be subversive to the Creation Centre? I don't think so. Would it be an increase in financial resources? Yeah, there might be a chance. Would this be a change in emphasis? Technology fund, as good as it is, is not all about things. It's about technology. Granted, he has a variety of additional items, but there is not much room for the development of services that is not technically present in the Technical Development Fund. There is not much room for product development, which does not involve research within it. Could we be more effective if we were to focus a little more on export history, being motivated by companies trying to make as much money as possible in exporting? I think that thinking like that would be much more likely to produce something, but don't listen to me, rather listen to the people who have literally done it, who, as far as I know, were not spoken to. I haven't seen any comments. I wonder why the government finds it normal for the client to bring these companies to the center they have come to this country without speaking to the most knowledgeable and most experienced people in this field, both staff of Iceland's New World Health Centres and those who have led these companies to the point they have come to this day, without hearing in their sounds, without hearing what is not working and what is not working. How do people come to think of that? If you should write a script into a comedy play, it might be a great suggestion, but if you're trying to create a good innovation environment for an Icelandic company, it's just the opposite of what you're supposed to do. If our goal is to create a good innovation environment, we must first figure out what's gone well, what's gone well, what's gone wrong, and change the system toward it, fix what's going on and give to where it's going well. Flirting everything in this way brings us at best uncertainty and, most likely, confusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy for a good speech and good criticism of the bill we're discussing. In view of international experience. A senator's experience with the Senate as chairman of the EFTA Senate committee would be curious to hear from him whether it is not necessary to contribute when it comes to international cooperation in innovation. There were many good comments on this subject, but very good reports came from Kristján son Leósson, who is a great scientist. During the past few years, Iceland's competitiveness has deteriorated in international comparison. International cooperation and cooperation in public fields, as most of us know, are extremely important to the international competitiveness of the country. I want to know what's wrong. A senator shares that vision with me. At least I heard him enter only in his speech. It'd be nice to get some details on whether or not. A senator shares with me that we need to strengthen and strengthen this international vision in international cooperation and cooperation. Does he see that this bill does it well enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u50	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm sure I agree. We live in an international environment. Everything we do in Iceland happens in that environment. We are not living in a void, and we must stop acting as if we live in a void. I have, for example. Many times mentioned, and mentioned in my speech on Thursday last Thursday, at least in one speech on the day, that one of the tools that had gone through the courtyards was entering the European Space Agency. It would probably cost Iceland about 70,480 million a year, most likely, but it would return in access to funds where, for example, it would. individual companies could get support - I think that the amount they mention is 1.5 million euro, which is considerably more than 70 to 80 billion. K. if I'm right. So it would take only one company to get one strength of that magnitude so that we could see that a few decades of participation in the European Space Institute has already paid off. There is more than any other benefit that comes from participating in such activities. There is also a variety of funds in the European Union. There are also many things, such as the United Nations Development Organization, which Iceland does not have. Most people in Iceland, I think, do not realize what the United Nations Development Organization is doing, but that is not something I can say. There is, in fact, a number of factors involved in trying to communicate knowledge and experience, including from the private sector to other companies around the world, building stronger business relationships, which, of course, is the whole point of making money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he would like to have me refer to Kristján Leósson, a scientist of the past and his review. He's the evolution director of the new creation company, DT-Equipment ehf. and have a successful career at the University of Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned the European Union fund, and I agree with him that there are countless opportunities that have already been available to the modern scientific and scientific community. Recent examples are sleep research that received European funds for development and innovation. Also, an Icelandic musician recently received the strength from European funds to develop artificial intelligence and music, and so on. It seems that many, both rulers and members of Congress, talk about the need to promote innovation and that innovation is the device and the tool out of Covid and in the resistance. Therefore, it is sad to see this bill here and the subversive Creation Centres and, in fact, a vague view of what is taking place in innovation at the same time as we're all stressing innovations that are supposed to be the way out of Covid. So I'd like to hear more about what's going on. A senator on the part of the innovation that will help us deal with the economic crisis of the pandemic, what he and his party already have to do with innovation. We have an incredible opportunity in our hands right now, to support innovation as a response to Covid. That is why all of us need to sharpen ourselves and explain ourselves there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u52	Mr. President. Maybe just to add to a discussion about the pan-European Fund, they're strong as a dog. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfeldddóttir referred primarily to the so-called Horizon grants, i.e. the general research and development scholarship fund of the European Union, which has partly access to the European Union. There's not much limitations there, but there's some. But there are lots of other funds that we don't have access to, e.g. The European Union's Marine and Ocean Research Fund. I have a feeling he could possibly do something useful here. There are also some kinds of built - in and other resources that could be used here, so there are not too many words to be said about what international cooperation can achieve. But about a question why. A senator on Pirata's policy and how we would try to get close to it has been talking about it all this terms, and actually since the cast was established, strengthening the support of innovations, which, in part, means to secure more funding, more distribution days, more shares from funds that are working, but also to create a powerful support network for the companies that enter and fit the whole chain, from technology stage one that introduces new ideas and quite into technical development in the nine stages where objects are coming to the bottom. Of course, FabLabs, to this end, digital carpenters could be mentioned, but I had a small part in bringing the first such carpenter to Iceland and other whales. Parliamentaries have worked directly or indirectly on them. But this is a spectacular example of how successful it can be to bring the tools to the public if we have the right to do so. Of course, it is difficult to judge sooner than afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u53	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and agree with two o'clock. Senators who brought up the President's conference board, I miss the board of directors in this discussion. Not one member of the board of directors, outside the majority opinion, has said something about this subject and still has enough to handle it. After this, I will give my third talk on the subject that I hope is enough to get that which I have to say about this matter, and yet I am just one member of the Senate. Here, members of Parliament have discussed some new creation issues. There are a number of things to discuss, especially in the light of the initial failure of the bill and in spite of the best efforts of the more part to compensate for some neglectful bill. I think it'd be better if it were. The members of the Management Board would participate in this discussion, either to defend the bill, because it could become an interesting debate, or even to suggest some ideas, because this issue is important, especially in this time of the pandemic Covid-19 and because of its economic consequences. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u54	Mr. President. I mentioned it in 1st. On this matter, since not many were on the rosary, I felt as if it had really happened in a recession at the Independence Party meeting. Either they would have had a list of organizations on paper and a black marker to cross over or with a napkin in the falcon, where men would have written names of organizations that would not please them. But this matter is, as mentioned in my speech then, evil, Mr. President. And after this case has gone to a committee as it did, after the visits of the committee and after reviews received, it is clear that the matter is much worse than those who spoke against it at the outset. I don't really know where to begin to criticize this case because there seems to be some challenge in the government to rip up a business with roots without knowing what to do next. This has, for example, been observed. I've been very prominent in the top class. A health minister who has torn up all kinds of activities without being involved in what to do next. This case is of the same nature. It's supposed to tear down a government agency, and it's actually been over, despite the fact that this bill has not become a law. People have been resigning from the New Creation Center, people with decades of experience and work age, they've been laid off. So if reason comes to hire here at a councilroom, which could happen and happen hopefully, and this bill will be cut down or called back, which in itself was best, then what will happen to people who have been mentioned at the Creation Center? It was shown in the case of those I heard at the time the bill was submitted that it was not only, Mr. President, that it had not been consulted with staff who were there for decades of working, but were completely ignored, Mr. President. It was unappreciated. But if I return to the Independence Party meeting, I also assume that men said, "Here are two for one, we'll slaughter one government agency, and we'll make a private partner." I am sure that those who heard the sound of joy have late ceased. But, Mr. President, that's just one of the things I tried to get an answer in 1st. While you're at the highest. Minister was here on the field. I asked: "How much is it going to cost the private part of the company? Will it be with a minimum amount of money, which is 500,000 k, if I remember correctly, or will it be with any million of the share money or tens of millions that you would think the function of this type would need if it was to be something? I now assume that the government will contribute part-time money to this private section until someone is allowed to the troll. I'm assuming that the establishment of this stock is not going to be without reservation, but this is done at the time, Mr. President, when innovation may be more important to us than ever, just when we should be building a whole plan of innovation, from the idea of a state-of-the-art company. As they know, it has become the fate of many wands in Iceland that once they're hot and when the product comes, the results of their hard work have come, these companies have been sold out of the country. Why? It is because Icelandic financial institutions are very reluctant to lend loans to innovation companies. With Icelanders it appears we have a horn on the page of innovation companies. A few years ago, I visited the foundation center. As many people know, Össur, if I recall, is 60 percent owned by the Danish pension fund. Why? Because approximately When an ass went to market, I guess it was in 2004-2006, at some point, Icelandic pension funds were encouraged to take part and buy money in Agsari. No, they didn't. Why? Yes, they were investing in commercial banks in Iceland. So it was in 2005 or 2006 or 2007. They wanted more production than they wanted out of some company like this. It seems that there is some deep - seated lesion in Iceland that people don't know what these can do for Icelandic society. I heard a rule once: We have 100 ideas. We're going to have a ten-spelled business. It'll be one Marel or an Ash of these 100 ideas. We have so many examples, especially in the technical sector now, the software sector, where people don't have to protrusion between countries with a high production tool. They are the most important ones in the minds of those who have invented and have been able to communicate and in computers. These companies are now very many and have in the past years, just in a few years, been sold out of the country on a large scale. Part of the operation has been involved. Some have employees here, but perhaps a great many more in many countries. Now I have no objection to the fact that Iceland is pursuing a job structure abroad. I don't mind. But I feel more intimate that Icelanders are working on a job building here in the country, and I think it's a lot more intimate that we get funding, that's why, from abroad, to build up this operation here. Mr. President. In this bill, there is no innovation, although it is called a bill for official support in innovation. It simply has a subversive. They're tearing up an institution. It is taking part of it, which is a highly established, highly intercessible knowledge, much of a founded memory, and pushing it to another place where knowledge and the founding memory and tradition do not exist. But those who were so interested in this matter could tick to one agency in a servile room at the national meeting and say, "Now this is over. " I think it was the whole point, that people could come out and say, "We're breaking down the booth, you see, we're here to lay down an institution. We're also creating a private partner because we're so much of freedomrs. Mr. President. I have to say, trials are highest. In this case, a minister to simplify the breech has been a very difficult one. V.E.G. A minister found, for example. The groups that are very likely to maintain a monotonous status and to be quite expensive in business. There were car dealers. All of a sudden, it hit the biggest grip. A minister to eliminate the legalization of that class, possibly with extreme damage to his customers. That's what we're talking about, Mr. President. Those who have come to know me have told me: This change will do a lot of harm to pioneers who are just beginning, especially to female pioneers. This is going to have a bad effect on these groups. Changing the New World Translation Center in a private partner may mean that there will be no longer any more human strength in a foreign country. There are many things to say to the European Union, but they may bring books in the European Union and they are very rigid in saying that all the funds being handled are properly and handled properly. I have faith that, as these men of great experience have told me, there is no default for world-wide granters to fall into the center of a private society because they simply do not trust that the homogenity and the transparency of money is the same in such equipment as in a government agency with good reputation. It has to be said that the New Creation Centre has a good reputation and more than that, there are a lot of people who have sent in the envelopes and met the committee who have said that this bill, if it becomes a law, is gone because they don't think what to do next, because there is a vague thing to happen next. But as I said at the outset, Mr. President, if my theory is correct, they were allowed to cut out one state institution of coffee in a coffee break. I suspect that's why the foxes have been cut. There was nothing to think of that matter as a means of improvement in one way or another. It wasn't the thought behind it. The thought was only this: We have one government agency that we can strike our hearts and say, "We're shrinking the booth. " Set up a private partner on part of the work, and show how liberal we are. Let's not worry about the customers, the people who trust in the Agency, let alone the staff, how this has nothing to do with this group. It's none of our business. It is with great wonder that now after the arrival, it is hard to believe, I intend to use that word, Mr. President, to continue with this case. My middle group members, who make 2 smaller parts of the employment committee, quote their members to one particular reference work. It is the review of Kristján Leósson, who is the evolution director of the Neo-creation Corporation DT-Equipment ehf. - It says here, Mr President, these aren't my words because the Congress is Icelandic - but it says there, by permission of the President: Unfortunately, the current employment and innovation bill is for official support to innovation, on the same basis, in signed, without adequate diagnostic work of the provision of public funds to R&TH, inadequately compared to comparable systems in other countries, with no adequate cost analysis of planned changes to the field of technical research in the future, without adequate consideration for any other aspects of the work of the relevant research organisations than those involved in the innovation environment, without analysis of the major opportunities for Iceland in technical research and without a targeted support strategy to maximise the results of government contributions for technical research and innovation in the near future. Signed feels that it would be best to postpone the planned bill until the results of such diagnostic work are available. I'm not a teacher now. I don't have the experience in teaching, and I don't have the experience of reviewing a test, but these comments here are in my mind, this is not even 4.9, this is 0. But, Mr President, they're still moving on. A review like this is not one individual, but one continues. It shall continue, like the horses of the past with leaves before the eyes, with only a view of the matter. And these people say that they are the most liberal people in Iceland, that they are publishers of freedom with the torch in their hands. They go out like Iceland's executives for the last 50 years, go through their heads, talk to no one, don't check with anyone, think nothing about what's in the world. Worse yet, what may be worst is not thought of the consequences. I say again, Mr. President: At this time of the year, we should be trying to round up institutions that come to technological innovations and innovations, making them more powerful and broader, more effective in managing their tasks. No, then this one is taken and torn down, and decades old, in construction research, into a new institution. I'm not trying to downplay that institution or the people working there, but it's only a few years old, one year, or two, or whatever, while there's decades of experience underneath. The same is true of the private partner. There's not yet been said, as I said at the outset, which part of this private section is not available to the state, which is expected to exist until the Council of Business must be allowed. If it's supposed to be 500,000, it's okay, it's only a small price. But if this is to be a busier society with some tens of millions of dollars, it won't be free. We're getting in the same jam as before. Why do people put government agencies in private institutions? It's, for example. to avoid pay contracts from public employees. We watch it everywhere, where government companies have been turned into public societies or societies, that pay contracts go out of the window. No one's idea is to infiltrate a company like this in terms of previously employed government workers. And I don't know that government employees in these institutions were not well pleased or that they did anything worse than the people they took. I don't know about that. We can go through many areas in what has been done by public members in Iceland, whether it's the radio or Istavia or the email, it doesn't matter. In every part of the world, pay has increased dramatically. It will be interesting to observe the next loss, if this bill becomes a law, what remuneration will be, and what will be paid in the new financial capacity of a private partner compared to what was previously killed in the state agency on the altar of the Independence Party Day some years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u55	Mr. President. I thank you for this fine talk, for it had reached many points to be discussed, but there was something very interesting for me. Hv. A senator mentioned that there is no innovation in the bill, which I most agree with, but there is a certain innovation in the abuse of Ministers' authority, I must say. Like what? A senator went over is not waiting for this bill to go through before the Agency is under way. It's a good thing that has already destroyed Iceland's New Creation Center with declarations instead of legislation. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's feelings about such behavior must be how he feels about it because such things must happen only after the law has authorized them, but not just because they are free to speak of it in the budget, which is supremely high. A minister will most likely carry for himself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u56	Mr. President. Power abuse is big words, but I think it's possible to say that there's been a lot of wisdom here, we can put it that way, and then I'm going back to the staff that's been working there, a lot with decades of experience. This is an extremely old-fashioned practice. We are here with the youngest minister of the government, who will become the expected female member of his party into the future, with or beyond half a century of work or more. This is not a good prescription for what to come. One of the most sensitive things humans do when these changes are carried out is the effect on those who are already in the position of the institution and are to use their probe properly, Mr. President, and he is unambiguous. In this case, I do not appreciate it whether this is the case and how it has been done, e.g. to the officers who were there, that, for example, they were there. developing a right to reform. But it wouldn't surprise me very much because it's done there by complete indifference.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u57	Mr. President. That's right, the indifference is complete, and it's not that it's the only government in the world that the present government intends to destroy. It's been going down pretty fast. I have a feeling this was the greatest entertainment at the Independence Party meeting. A senator described. But I have to walk only after this, because if it isn't abuse at the time of the process of laying down an institution that should be legal before the law is present--and I know that these are big words and I'm going nothing lightly with such terms, but I still seriously pondered it for myself--what is this then? Where's the limit? How far must it be taken without having received a judicial hearing for such a arrangement before we say: "Look! Now it is good? You can't do this as a minister. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to know what the answer is because otherwise it's very difficult to contain the Minister when they get such a set-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u58	Mr. President. Now, that is how the group I belong to is exactly what I want to be a simple government business. He wants to react to the booth just as it is. However, if you're going to put down a government agency or to some extent change its origin, I'm saying to myself that I would go on record that there were two operations or two conclusions that would follow such a decomposition. One is financial savings and the other. That is why, as I said earlier in the talk, instead of tearing this government into pieces and dividing it into a private section and throwing it into another institution that doesn't have the same institutions, why don't you take these matters together into one powerful organization, make good use of the union it has, and use the pulse and recovery of the function? [[Up front.]] That's what I don't understand because there's a progressive young minister out here on the road with this old practice, which is just disappointing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u59	A respectable president. On the board of directors' web site, the president's permission states: 'New creation is the basis of progress and increased treasure creation in a competitive, international world. Underneath this, it can truly be taken. I want to thank you. A candidate for a fine talk, many good things were presented there. But in the context of the importance of innovation in the community, I noticed his comments about the female pioneers and their circumstances and would be interested in getting more information. A senator of his vision of official support for these pioneers, women. We speak for the variety and importance of the job, but we must also be aware of its importance and the fact that a group of pioneers is also a diverse group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u60	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this, but I'm sorry. Senator. What I meant by this having a problem with a female pioneers is that in the modern creation center, it has been a special program, as we call it in English, but we use a different word over what is directly intended for pioneers from a group of women. This is where knowledge has been built. There's a bridge built between these pioneers and the agency. This has worked out very well. Now that the Agency is being eliminated, this is a project in the wind. That's what I meant when I said that this bill, would be a law, would bring down the pioneers of a group of women. As we both know, Mr. President, women are now in a much greater part of those who pursue greater education, so we have, if there is anything to offer an even greater proportion of women who present as pioneers with new ideas, in another vision. It is not - and I repeat that we are talking about young ones and fresh ministers with an ever - old attitude - in the spirit of promoting innovation from this growing group by acting in the way that is done in this bill, no less so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very interested in the answers and motivations of this aspect because I think it is part of the reality that our professional life feels too monotonous; of course, part of the solution must be activating everyone's energy. I agree with what he says about participation and the percentages of women in high school are the least - growing group likely to move further forward and also as a group who have the right to do so. I wondered, " Where is it going? ' A senator sees to it that women can move ahead in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u62	V.E.G. President. If my memory fails, it has been that in the past few years it has been this way that in terms of recruitment applications and contributions to projects of the colony, women have been in a much smaller part of the past. Initially, there was someone who gave in to the image that women were holding back, not grumbling. We also see this naturally in politics, that sometimes it's hard to get women to volunteer on a list. But, of course, that's a bad ancient thought. I say again: A young minister of fresh thinking, a woman beautiful, young--if she doesn't know the time of the visit, what with us graybearers who ought not to be a hallmarker? Of course, we do because we must, as it were, so well past the reason. A senator, to activate everyone, and we want to activate everyone because it means so much to our future and never more than just now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A fine speech for a senator. I thought it was interesting and likely a guess. The senator said that this is a case that arose on a napkin during a coffee break at the Independence Party meeting. I also thought you were quite a cheeky man at night. Councilman to perhaps is the interest of the Icelandic government in innovation more bound to speeches during battles than in actuality, and perhaps. has Icelandic executives in financial life, including the pension fund, cornered by innovation. I want to hear what I'm talking about. So a senator will wonder with me on what behalf this case is, i.e. Other than the dance of pension funds, which have already benefited from this government's view of innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's objection to the fact that I think it's very important to myself. It really doesn't matter where we look at our new job in Iceland, big machines like the pension fund of thousands of billions of dollars below have been available to invest in research ships that were supposed to be somewhere searching for oil, far north of the sea. But they didn't exist in their time, after a crash, to invest in what is now the HS Orcs, because then they were investing in Icelands, if I remember correctly, without me making in any way a small amount of the good company. But it seems to be somehow, so if technology is included, not the money store you see, you're suspicious and afraid to stick your money to, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. There's something else at stake, but it's only innovation, because information from Iceland's Engineers Association says that if this bill becomes a law without necessary changes, there is a risk of irreparable damage to the environment of innovation and practical technology and construction research in Iceland. We are naturally reminded daily in what kind of country we live in, how nature is here, and how important it is to have a very good knowledge of buildings and buildings. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is concerned with me because this knowledge and this, I'm afraid to say, founder, may be upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u66	V.E.G. President. Yes, this was one of the many topics in the talk I gave earlier, that taking the study periods out of the Bureau, i.e. The construction facility, and put it elsewhere, would be cutting down the existing infrastructure memory. We do not need to go far around this area to see the consequences of the lack of careful and safe housing. Over the years, we have had alkaloid damage, mold damage in recent times, and organic acid has varied because of the different levels of exposure we have had, etc., so this knowledge is vitally needed. How tragic it is that humans minimize the knowledge as well as the experience that has been generated in this bill!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u67	Mr. President. Hv. In his speech, a senator said that the European Union might keep records. That's right. But the European Union may also support innovation. The European Union is a solid sponsor of innovation and research and has been a long time. We see that the cornerstone of Europe's co-work is promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the workaid in Europe and the same in Iceland. The inner market is all based on helping and setting standards and harmonizing in behalf of small ones. It is also the European Union's State Development Regulation. The European Union's competitiveness principle is aimed at preventing the large one from crossing the small one. The European Development Fund has likewise played a key role in European innovation. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he sees an opportunity in the full involvement of Iceland in the European Union when it comes to innovation and research. I know why. A senator issktish in membership, but sees him at least This isn't the benefit of Iceland's involvement in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u68	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u69	V.E.G. President. The person standing here is the most unlikely person to sing a great blessing to the European Union. [[Up front.]] The other is that we middleclasses are internationalists, we want to look far and wide around the world, interacting with as many people as possible. But in spite of the good European Union's efforts to support innovation, despite the best efforts of the European Union to support agriculture, which is the greatest contribution to the European Union's budget of interest, I don't think we should give away the authority we have over the wealth we possess and our country has, which is an envy of many nations, and can be right. So even though I want to cooperate well with the European Union and appreciate the strength and strength they have given here because of innovation and other things, I am not prepared to take this step to the full and cooperate with this relationship. That's different.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u70	Mr. President. I think there's a bit of a hole in this by what I'm talking about. Because he defines himself as an internationalist, although he is not even ready to examine with an open mind the benefits of a full involvement in the European Union. I feel that innovation and innovation are such an ideal opportunity to view the European Union as a more positive perspective. A senator does, especially while we have the government we have today. Yesterday, a five - year financial program was introduced. It allows innovation to decrease by 31 percentage points from 2021 wrote226. If we were members of the European Union, the European Union would be able to offset surgery for innovation. It matters. We're dealing with a 100 - year - old crisis. I've had a lot of talks about this, that innovation is a magic word in a recession, and that's what we're at. A senator agrees. The concept of innovation and innovation is so remarkable that there is a parapolitic convergence to further the innovation. [[The president calls.]] But money needs to be kept. I see a bunch of shit going around, chief. President, in the full involvement of Iceland into the European Union, especially when it comes to innovation and development of a strong and fertile economy, and especially small and small enterprises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u71	V.E.G. President. Yet, there was a measure of enthusiasm. But that's the way, Mr. President, that I am by nature a cautious man. If I am, for example. I'm not likely to follow him. We have an example of this because our neighboring nation is new from its forced relationship with the European Union and its exits, now with the greatest resources in Europe, both economicly, military, etc. I understand, and now I haven't read the Bfenit Convention to the full, that the solution that the British could leave the European Union was that they agreed to hold after a quarter of their fishing grounds in their own legislation, their own land cover. [[The president calls.]] I must admit, Mr. President, this is worth a fortune to me, this gift of divorce. I wouldn't want to put Iceland in the position of having to face these advantages.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u72	Mr. President. This bill is presented as an unconcerned subject, as is clearly explained in the reviews, and many talks have been raised. The bill was underestimated, as we Middle Classes would bring up in our opinion with reference to the very practical knowledge of Kristján King Leósson, who knows all about this topic field. The bill is about what seems to be the only subject. It's putting down Iceland's New Creation Centre and creating a lot of uncertainty, not to be said to be harmed, but uncertainty at least. of her subsequent work, not to mention unannounced behaviour to the staff of the Agency. Not too much has been said to provide a budget for the new central part of the network to receive part of the projects of the New World Translation Centre. Mr. President. As a professional committee member of this matter, I'm going to say here that I think it's necessary to do so. For more information on this aspect of the matter, the financial situation of the private body, the employment committee will meet. Mr. President. I'm going to refer only to the review of Iceland's Institute of rights, for one of the concerns is the future of practical construction research, as is stated in Iceland's Archaeological Association, by permission of a president: The future of practical construction research at the National Institute of Creation for Iceland (NMI) is now to be laid down. According to VFI, there must be a unit that behaves normally between university research and corporate products development in rich partnerships with university and professional life, in construction studies as well as in other fields of technical research, as well as the use of professional advice and support for sceptres. Or it may be a challenge for pioneers and imaginative individuals to get basic help in developing their ideas. These, of course, are all very important comments made by engineers who, of course, are familiar with these matters. Just to highlight these practical construction research is here in another document from Iceland's Acquisition Society a small list of practical construction research. That's where the President's permission says: ▪ One of the important factors that the NMI (pre Rb) has done is practical construction research. These include eco-friendly concrete, barberage in buildings, air quality inside buildings, a stroke test, as well as countless other factors discussed in reports and so - called Rub magazines, all available free of charge. According to the government's plans, HMS (HMS) is designed to handle this future edition. This arrangement can be questioned as HMS is actually a surveillance facility, not a laboratory. Mr. President. It is for this reason that we have why. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson brings up the matter in our minority mind, considered a second lower portion of the situation, that it has not been in any way explained to us the intention of saving a new competitive fund in a Hosse and Engineer Institute that is not known to have experienced such activities while creating the Technological Development Fund is saved in Rannis, as if this fund should be natural. Mr. President. It can also be referred, and I want to do so, to Ranni's story. It says, by permission of the president: Since construction tests and construction studies, chemical and biological analysiss, as well as chemical and biotechnology, have an important role in the innovation environment, it is necessary to assume that such activities will continue. There are extensive equipment and skills that are unlikely to be built up by private citizens in the near future. Then, too, Ranni's review says: "The quality of the bill is somewhat misleading, since it does not account for just a small part of public support for innovation. I'd like to add that the concept of innovation is not given any input in the bill. There is no analysis of how this factor will be better recommended by the approved bill. Mr. President. Then, at last, I would like to refer to a statement received by the representatives of the New Creation Centres, which says, by permission of the President: The objective of the bill is to lay down Iceland's New Arts Center (NMI), transport parts of projects to other public agencies, and other private services. As a result of these changes, there are four factors: national services decline, innovation support declines without the cost of delinquency, increased structure and worse management of public funds, the activity obtained in private business shapes would be more suitable for public management. Mr. President. It cannot be said that the government will perform good work in official support of innovation, at least If this bill is indicated. There is much knowledge in this land that is not new. There is, in fact, a great convergence that can be found among members of Congress and interest among them in innovation, a subject that was raised high in the leading of the 2017 General election and gave a whip to the campaign. Councilmen's stand on duty is seen at that point. The job committee who worked hard to break the cracks that are on this bill. But the government missed a golden opportunity to present a matter that could be met at the General Assembly. Instead, we are here with a case that has little or no support from the government position and the members of the three members of the administrations appear to support with a hanging hand, for they have not been seen here at 2nd. if you're separated from the legend of a why. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands Magnóttir who spoke for the opinion of more of the Committee. Mr. President. It's not easy for you to think very strongly about this bill, so that you don't know what it looks like, that it's been submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk, there's a lot I can agree with there. In particular, I would like to mention what the senator mentioned regarding the conduct of the staff of the New Creation Centres because the uncertainty that has been triggered for over a year is a disgrace, not to be spoken of. But I wanted to think about something else with the senator. This was not the main reason I wanted to have a word with him. Hv. A senator spoke of hopefully and possibly, and perhaps not being harmed by this process. This new system may become clearer. But just because of what happened. A senator is well - versed in economics. I'd like to allow me to think only aloud with him, if it wasn't a costly price to get started on this. People have been released from work stations across the country at the New Creation Center, which is expected to affect the Agency's ability to support innovation across the country, and particularly has been broken from within the department that supports pioneers in the early stages. Where there were 20 employees before this disaster, there are only two people today. It is in just a time when the government declares that innovation, knowledge, research, and development are the basis for economic resistance. Is it not only very likely that an enormous social cost of the chaos that has been involved in innovation over the past few years could be calculated because of this decision by the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What I was talking about here was that the decision to put down a New Creation Center has led to a wide range of uncertainty in this emerging environment all, natural for the staff in this difficult 2020, etc. I'm willing to say that even there would have been damage. There was a particular unity that had already been experienced and that some of it rests on the old marrow, the laboratory of the construction industry. This situation is somehow dissolved without having to be explained how it will be taken care of in the bill. So that's what happens. The job committee is trying to save into the cracks, and that's what they're trying to do. That was very much discussed on the committee. It was very soon clear to everyone that this matter was held in a very serious way. Then there is a view of a greater portion, and this is the result of the conversation that took place within the committee and probably also in the field of the majority. We are there with two minor opinions, where we approach matters in a similar way. In my closing words, I described how I felt about the fact that this matter had come true and that it was done in a way that was done here - well, certain harms, which then stemmed from the fact that this united unity is no longer present.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u75	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned the construction work of the laboratory. I would like to mention it in my second answer because the senator referred to it as an intermediate between employment and educational community, practical construction research. I think this is a pretty smart way to frame this in. A whole new creation center is some kind of intermediate, and official support for innovation is likely to be an intermediate between educational society, employment life, other fragrances of government, rural society, and free partnerships. It's supposed to be wet and out of him we'll take the innovation into the future with the auss. Because I know that the senator also lives in a university community experience, I'd like to wonder, " Is it not the most dangerous part of this bill, to take the New Creation Center that can, because it's just the way of the public, serving the point of being the center of all these different factors, and moving it to some private form which in addition is also a narrower focus, which, in addition, takes the step towards the broad innovation of all sciences in being some technical object of the minds and sociologists must be agreed that it is not the only way to promote the evolution of society? It's not the only innovation that's worth anything. I'd like to consider whether this privatization at the New Creation Center will make the product that comes out of it just not much worse in the countryside to handle a project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u76	Mr. President. I could credit myself for the discussion on this intermediate point, but I picked it up and quoted the story of Iceland's Engineer Association. So I read that sentence, by permission of the President: ▪ According to the VFI assessment, a unit that normally takes place between university research and corporate products development in rich partnerships with university and employment, on construction studies as well as in other fields of technical research, as well as counseling and giving professional support to sceptres. The connection to the university community is a factor that really matters in this regard. It is most recent to say that the university, such as to make Iceland's University, seems to be taking advantage of the cooperation it seems to achieve between private and university. But a very helpful and clear tip came from the University of Iceland, where we were. A member of the Central Class, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, took our position. She is that it would not be easy to assume that this new partner could collect a substantial amount of money from a foreign competitive fund, which has been achieved by a new creation center, since the management plan may not be the best thing to do in this. But that is why, before they can successfully take money from such funds, people must have developed a reputation and have introduced themselves in this field as significant recipients of such funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Yes, the theoretical thing should be practical and the practicality should be theoretical and in order to achieve that, we need such a transfer device, which is exactly the newly created center here, or that's how I choose to understand it. I think it's a little like this company that's always creating a new, new adapter to confuse us and make us buy more. The government is doing it now, they're bringing some new adapter that no one knows how to do, and no one knows where to connect, and no one knows what to connect and how to connect. I've come up with a lot of uncertainty, and I think it's a bit of a disaster policy. It has been reported that the Governing Body received a 34 - part discourse in this case, and 86 visitors presented the committee. Hv. A senator has read a lot about this and has heard many special visitors relate to his opinions, which I understand have been a warning. I'd like to hear a little bit of it. A senator as to how he sees this, the desirable arrangement, how he would see the best possible outcome of these matters, whether we will continue completely in the same course, whether we will continue on the same path, but with certain improvements, rely on what we already have, but try to do a little better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for his counter-sponsored response. Regarding this transfer, there is one aspect of what I would like to add, which I have previously said: Some studies are very useful to those who work at the university. It's all about dealing with material and returning results published in approved, preferably foreign literature. This, of course, is the way to progress within the academic community. Then there are other research, perhaps we can call it, such as to shorten our way, of a more practical kind, or of something that is not as good for this purpose but that is necessary for society and is essential. We see that it can achieve good cooperation with the colleges on the aforementioned species of research, but the rest is left in some kind of limbo, as it were. That's really an unscrupulous case. True, this is under the suggestion of more than one part - the building research policy should be set. It should be given for two years. The rest should be available now and should have been available at the input of the bill. For a word or two. A senator on a disaster policy, I can say of her that you may have thought that further research might have been made, but it seems that this bill would have been desirable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. To that end, it may be added that the key to obtaining money from the private sector is natural that money is available from public funds. That's absolutely necessary. Hv. A candidate made a comment in his speech, which is mentioned by a smaller section in his committee and is also referred to in committees from the 1st small part of the employment committee. Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, and holy Helgi of Hrafn Gunnlaugsson sign. There is a lot of talk about Kristján son Leósson. Among the comments given by his review, Iceland was in the 13th list of Global Innovation Index in 2015-2017, which is so fine, perhaps nothing special, but in 2018-2020 it was in 20,◯23. Sit down. This is the same time period as the annual economy is 2277%. I think it's a worry. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if it is possible that Iceland, if it is the case that looks and this case becomes reality, may still fall below this list.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u80	Mr. President. With regard to this particular list as a reason, there may not be much evidence to suggest. A senator here makes up the subject of Kristján Leósson's review that this bill has been specifically lost to support Iceland's position on that list. It has to be said at the moment. I want to use this opportunity, adding that one of the missing items is a foreign comparison. What order have our neighbors and other nations, who have achieved far in this regard, created around public support in this regard? I'm going to tell you here that I kept calling for this to find some reason. Professional committee. This, for example, is a slight comment in the review of the greater part, but I would have considered very desirable to be about what role models we would most place among our neighbors, what ambition they had to do even better than we do, and maybe in the eyes of what other people have done, it would be described in these endeavors all together that the real purpose of all these efforts would be expressed. Sadly, though, this is nowhere to be found. What Kristján Leósson, first referred to him here, pulls out perfectly and clearly, and we do. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, we took up our minor opinion, as regards the lack of preparation of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u81	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize official support for innovation. In view of the fact that much of this matter has been negative, perhaps it is best to say first, which I think we all agree on, which has expressed us in this room, that the emerging environment in Iceland is far from perfect, unchanged, is by no means the ideal situation. The environment in Iceland needs to strengthen, official support for innovation has to be changed, but the way the government has chosen is as back as possible. It would have been a very small matter to gather ideas, talk to staff of the New Creation Centres, those who use the services of the New Creation Centres, Ranni's staff and linked institutions, wands, people in the university community, and employees of the labour market. They are all people who are working to get ideas and implement them. These are people who work to see how to do things better. These people will agree with us that the new world is not perfect. Instead, what could actually be called innovation in public management is started because this bill and all this process can be used in the future as raw materials and a sin bar in studies about change management, on how things should not be done. Besides the fact that this route is not possible to strengthen the innovation environment in Iceland, although it should be the goal, the whole process describes an disturbing attitude toward the staff of the public agency, which most of the past few years faced a complete uncertainty about its future. All they knew in the first few weeks was that a minister was going to lay down the Agency, and then do something. It is an intolerable insecurity for those who trust in the services of innovation centers, the pioneers who say to support more fully with this bill. Rather than the fact that the New Creation Center was able to do more and more because people stopped working there in these distressing circumstances. This is what happens when governments do not watch litigators or projects but see only organizations and decide to lay them down, or in this case that the private capital of the New World Society is at the National Institute of Technology ehf. and discard affected tasks. However, if the government, instead of having this sample, had an institution, sat down with all the people who want the new world well, we would be in a very different situation today. We would have been able to drive back into the new world, which would also have been part of the motor we need in the next year's resistance. The government has, for example, repeatedly declared that innovation and knowledge and research and development should put Iceland's economic demand following Covid-19 teams. This bill, however, weakens the ability of the sector to do so. This reduces the ability of the innovation sector to meet the challenge of building Iceland after the crown virus epidemic, not just the bill itself, but the whole process before it came to light, from the secretary's announcement. Then the question arises: Is it possible to measure, do you think we can calculate, to determine how much this minister's decision cost the community? The lower energy of the innovation sector, the lower power of pioneers last year, which may have led from all this process, simply results in less innovation and less economic activity in society. In addition, expensive prices are bought with the consequences of the operation as it was supposed to be during the past year. People have been released from the Society's headquarters of New World Power Centers throughout the country. However, one of the objectives of this case should be to strengthen innovation in the country. What about the pioneers in early stages, the people who are taking the first steps, people who received, for example. An idea after losing a job after Covid, wanting to implement it, and knocking on a New creation center to get the support that pioneers can get at the beginning of the creative process? What has happened there? The number of workers has fallen from twenty to two. There's a price on this decision somewhere, but I don't know whether we'll ever be able to calculate it. What you start to suspect in the past few months, since innovation has been very frequent in government action, but perhaps less so, by some means, that innovation is becoming a trigger for governments rather than a real meaningful policy that affects government action. It is easier to point to this bill, as expressed in official support for innovation, but it is, in effect, scraping the official support outside the innovation environment. It could also be mentioned things that bear the name'snewing', such as the student's New World Fund, which does not qualify for the role that he is assigned, which is explained by the fact that when it was decided to give more money in the fund last year to help students in the middle of the Covid arm to make ends meet and work related to what it was learning, they would not be filled with jobs because of my belief, first of course, that the funds don't afford people too little money, 300,000 k. in two months for some, which is not even the summer shelter that students' education fund calculates to be given, much less what the students themselves expect. In addition, jobs were often too narrow and often too narrow so that they could attract unemployable people. So I'd like to give you an example of one official device that's supposed to change its name soon and be called Science and Neon Council, which is, in a sense, a better name than the scientific and technical advice it has promised for this, in view of its often too much emphasis on technical subjects, the so-called STEM articles, when it comes to support the pioneers and innovations. But what to do as soon as the name is changed to the scientific and innovation Council is proposed by the prime minister to suggest that the Council, which is a transfer between the government and the executives of the university and scientific environment and the professional world, will be changed to the consulting committee but the Council itself will be made solely stewards, four of the most recently introduced elements, seven of the first minister's ideas. I'm going to say, Mr. President, that a group of four to seven ministers is less fertile for innovation and a wide variety of people from around the world with professional, scientific, and educational experience. It's moving farther away from real innovations at the same time as the name is converted to innovation. But that's exactly what we've been talking about, which I think we'd miss the most part of the present environment compared to what the government's doing here. A conversation between the education system, state and rural society, labour market partners, businesses, partners, any person who could possibly bring ideas to the table can't happen at any level. Making the scene for that conversation is perhaps one of the most important contributions made by the government to innovation. Making a field where there is not too much leaning on one side rather than on others, which is not too much for jobs, does not neglect the job life on the grounds of the educational community, reaching some balance point between all of these parties, is what a healthy innovation environment needs most from the state. This is also the scene where the State needs to be behind, since it is very unlikely that such a scene will ever catch flight in some business president. It must be surprising, then, that the government would suggest the role of the New World Translation Centre on the Central Society Technical Institute of Iceland. There you fear that governments will begin to squeeze the focus and that the conversation will be materially too narrow. The term Technical Institute suggests that there may be too much emphasis on science and technology while some of the most exorbitant innovations that are currently taking over bridges the exact gap between mental and social and physical sciences and art fields and all creative articles are the scarcity of all sciences. Materially, the Technical Institute is expected to be too narrow, but by moving it into the private part of society, it is also a threat to the presupposed, not the broader appeal because it may not be able to resist the clients but is still essential for knowledge. We also know this from the discussion of basic research, where governments spend too often more powder in so - called practical research, but basic research that cannot get through the needle's eye of the market is put aside. Yet, these basic research is the basis for all the creation of knowledge. One of my favorite examples is mentioned in the Space Iceland review of the bill. It's the Carbonix project at the Power Institute. It's based on basic research that the Technical Development Fund strengthened to remind me of, research on the gaming of the salt that no one had yet thought would produce the crowning of the energy company that the Carbiffx project is about to become. The Carbifx project is also such an exciting example of another role in the public, which is to set the community a clear frame and sometimes create the necessary obstacles or challenges that then restore new solutions. COfix, you see, is based on the Sulfix project that set off as the power company's way to extract sulphur dioxide from the exhalation of Hellishe-remissions and to dispose of them somehow. For what? Because governments set firm standards for the maximal concentration of sulphur hydrogen in the area of the geothermals, not for fun, but for the poisonous gas that was intruding the population in the upper capital area when the wind ran out. Enforcement was not easy, but it did. I'm going to try to argue that after retrospect, PGE does not regret the money or the effort it took to get the Sulfix project started in the light of what it was responsible for, the Caffix project, which is a new climate project, which is likely to be possible to be exported, even to a large extent. Mr. President. There's a lot of things about this bill to say, but I think the core is what we've had in our lives here today and in the last days. There are so many things to work on promoting public support for innovation. That's the way forward, not only through the Covid crisis, but also to face other challenges of the future, such as the climate crisis. This bill, however, is by no means the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech and particularly thanks him for focusing on the nonessential staff involved here. Perhaps there is reason to remind that these are not the first people in their situation that their work is upset by the vague plans of the government to do something with the agency they work for. We'll transport Fishing Agency, we'll transfer operations in the Civilian Institute and so on. We've been working on something with the illustration of the transfer device, I'm thinking of throwing that illustration aside now, I've become a little bit bored of it. Would it not be more like a transportation center, a station? Isn't this a little bit like the people of Copenhagen would shut down Hovedbanegården? Can't we compare the role and function of a powerful New Creation Centre to a transport center that connects with countless transport methods, let's say, and countless paths in different directions, but meets there in this particular location because there are all connections, there are also some who are able to communicate with other people who are doing things similar to others who are doing different things, and perhaps there are also ways to obtain fuel? [[The president calls.]] May it not be said that the damage we see here is that we do not get these precious connections?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u83	The president pays attention to the fact that the clock in the speaker's stand and the puzzle doesn't go together, but the president has it under control pretty much, that he thinks, and tries not to cheat members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u84	A respectable president. Now we're trying to see if our biological clocks are working properly, we'll see if we stay within limits. But that is exactly what it means to talk about the staff because the kind of politicians who see nothing but organizations and are determined to compromise them from some form of religion forgets both the individuals who have to live in the unknown because of it, as this example shows us, forget the projects they have done. If you see only an institution and a social security number and not a project, you might even get involved as a minister to offer a bill that, in effect, means to strengthen innovation, but, in effect, scatter all support of it over the edge and underside, so that it becomes much less certain. I like the illustration at a station or a transportation center or what it is, something that brings up many different factors and also some place that you know, if it sleeps some idea inside you, that you can go to this place, you may not get all the service you need but meets all the people who can show you the right way. This is also mentioned in the bill on support environment. It is of great importance that expertise in strength is in few places, so that those seeking financial support in their assignments can only knock at one location and then be directed on their own. This is the role of the government because it matters that there is one such place. The public may live up to that fact, though there may be some private servants who are responsible for making some of the services available. Then, the New Creation Center can continue to direct people there as it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u85	A respectable president. Yes, a person has a little feeling that this is the way it was to collect into the cable and then say before elections: these and these things I put down, to talk to the congregation, and to trouble the congregation to have laid down so much and so much public service because the congregation is in faith that the public employees so - called, people who serve in public service, are some sort of needs, or those who are not around them. I would like a second talk to address a question as a question. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came along earlier in the European Union to see if there is a pattern for applying for how we can create innovation and how we can live in these articles. We can contribute to connections, such as we are talking about here and creating systems for support. I ask like what. paritaprevir Ágústsson Ólafur Águssson asked earlier. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson in the subcontinent: Is the solution, perhaps, just going all the way into the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u86	A respectable president. Whether we can look for role models in the European Union. I think we're already doing this because there's so much sponsorship, especially on basic research, but also on practical research or what we call them, which come directly from the EU fund. We have the Horizon plan, we have the Erasmus plan, we have all these huge funding programs. Of course, Iceland has to pay the Member State's fee to be a part of it, but in the force that in Iceland, people with good ideas and a good position to implement them and often with more cooling research at than in most, the success rate of these funds is far higher than the government needs to contribute. The European Union is already feeding the innovation community much more than the public would ever have trusted on its own terms. And speaking of the models from there, I may fall back into the cross-cutter line because what the European Union has been moving towards is increasing and better cooperation between the educational community and the sector and the research provided by the European Union achieves the cooperation that can be achieved there. [[The president calls.]] We have in Iceland an example of all these large and largest innovation companies that come out of such cooperation, so that Iceland's emphasis on this field should naturally be hand in hand with what the European Union is doing these days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u87	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill on official support for innovation, which is always a big and important matter, but especially under the circumstances of the nation's industry, which clearly emphasizes the importance of a wide variety of support for the development of heavy traumas, such as those we've been dealing with in recent years. On the board of directors' web site, the president's permission states: 'New creation is the basis of progress and increased treasure creation in a competitive, international world. Under that rule, it can indeed be emphasized that we are here today discussing the fundamental interests of all of us. Sadly, our working life in Iceland is too monotonous and is too sensitive to fluctuations. Because of the negative effects we suffer, we gain greater weight. Some of the traumas are due directly to the monotonousness of professional life. We tend to be quick to forget things that have led to the development of innovation in the political discussion often constitute a subject of short - term solutions rather than long - term ideologies. Emphasis on innovation simply means that we can continue to ensure a comparable quality of life, ensure that there is and become desirable for young people to live and for our children to live and work. It doesn't matter whether we look at an opportunity for high value, on increased currency income, at solutions to challenges like those we face today, whether we watch biological changes in society, equality, climate; innovation is quite often the answer. New creation is for that reason simply necessary. It is necessary, especially now that we have to stop and ask ourselves, " How are we going to grow out of the crisis, how we're going to build up and how we're going to achieve competitive living in Iceland in the long term? ' True, the government has done some good things about supporting innovation, technology, and evolution. We have seen some of it now manifest itself as a temporary campaign for the downturn and depression, e.g. provisional regulations which were added to support innovation companies, which included a temporary increase in reimbursement for research and development. In this regard, I would like to mention that the Councilship Council suggested a proposal that would make them temporary arrangements permanently so that their support would be general, not specific. Only on this matter and the discussion we've had here in the conference room today, of course, is one of the issues presented in the matter the government plans to put down the National Creation Center of Iceland and find work on the Agency a new route. I think it may be said, in order to be reasonable, that the matter is a matter of how governments predict support for innovation, in what way the government should establish there, that it is a question of how and not whether. In this regard, I also feel that by 2007, I am reminded of the establishment of a new creation center by the team of the development of the development of the development of the development of the construction facility and the laboratory. Of course, much has happened since then, and it has been reasonable to look to that topic for discussion. I agree with the goal of the bill, i.e. The aim of promoting public support for innovation in the country and that it will be done by a flexible support system, that it should be done in a strong connection with the university community, with a strong link to industry, and with emphasis on innovation in the region. In fact, I would have wanted to see it as an immediate solution to the purpose behind it, that the purpose for women's involvement in innovation had been established. But I welcome goals for strong relationships with university society and professional life and see it as an important goal to see that one of the manufacturers is innovation in the country. It is in my mind that it is simple to speak in a way that is different from that of the objective of lye to form. It involves the best way that government support should come to those who will enjoy it. It is, of course, a challenging and exciting political question in view of the great interests involved and, of course, especially now. There are questions like how we want to create innovation, how we want to activate the power of pioneers, and how the public and private sector are best spent in behalf of innovation. The aims seem to me during the first review of this case are that the budget runs to where it needs you most. I think there are many things to say about this case, such as that it is always important for evolution to have the courage to ask and study, and in this case, the courage to reevaluate the role of the institutions. In my opinion, each government should always think of how to serve best. In this regard, the question is, How can we best serve a role in the support of innovation in the whole country? When I've been considering the comments on this subject, it's interesting, first of all, that the reviews are many and varied. There are certainly different viewpoints, but that is not to say that everyone is opposed to the matter or its goals. We can see it when we disappear, for example. A review from the University of Iceland, celebrating the objective of the bill to promote official support for innovation in the country. It gives a very important point that, of course, money from the state must be guaranteed. It may be a rather common theme that we see in the reviews of this government, and it is evident that this is the key to making money secure. In fact, it also discusses how peers may be affected. Of course, there is something that must be perfectly clear and guaranteed. I saw the reviews of Rannis, the Association of Industrial and SA, and the Organization of Business and Service that express support for the objective of the bill and the government's plans to promote the emerging environment, research, and development of the country. I'm at the point that it is quite time for us to examine and adopt the official arrangement for innovation, guided by increasing flexibility. It is now 14 years since the establishment of Iceland's New Creation Centre, and I feel that it is a factor in the fact that the environment in this sector has changed dramatically since then. I believe that the work of the New Creation Centres was and is extremely important. It is important to make good repairs for such important changes. I must admit that I am staying when I listen to a discussion today and hear the concern of many members of the council here in the hall regarding this aspect of the matter, i.e. Prepare the case and the setting. It is disturbing to hear the voices and concerns that depend much on how things are being handled, but of course not only, I hear them. I share their concern, simply because it is the prerequisite for a successful diagnosis of impact, a discussion, and a resolution of such a matter. There should be an independent objective in this regard as a way of working together. On the other hand, I do not object to studying and reevaluating how the government can best fulfill its role in this regard. Besides, I don't think that the New Creation Center is the only right answer there. I don't see it that way. But I share the concerns of the senators who have spoken, especially today, and discussed the matter and preparation, for he is, of course, a guide to how it will work and how it can be achieved if the matter has not been won better than the members of Congress described today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u88	President. Thank you. A senator before history, and I have to state that I find it boring that the highest minister under this matter is not here to answer or any of its members or groups. I just wanted to have a little conversation with you. A senator with a story here on the equality issues associated with this new bill. I mentioned earlier in my speech that I don't feel that gender equality is being made by this bill. I'd rather have seen policy-making in order to increase access to all innovations. I think the innovation environment is a bit manlike and I think it's being tried to move it into some form of manipulative form, which I thought was not possible, but it now seems to be the case. Is it not better for the government to spend its money in order to increase the availability of women and peripheral groups to the innovation environment? I'm sure that would increase innovation. I just want to say that there are already a lot of high-tech companies in Iceland that were listed earlier, and there have been a variety of props within them where young people can come and develop their ideas. That's even. Marel's, Adrar and CCP, which are the technical companies we're most proud of in Iceland. So I wanted to get a few discussions or to ask if this money was simply not more useful in promoting innovation in that there are others who can participate and whether it might increase the variety and flexibility in this environment, which has certainly changed very much in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I agree with her deeply. This goal calls for a little something, that when it comes to listing the objectives of the case, it's over. I would have liked to see a sex friend there, and I believe that innovation is simply an important matter that when that case has not been exposed to eyeglasses, it would have been a matter of great importance. I myself believe that equality should always be the theme and red thread of all this kind of work. I feel very sorry to sense that it is not. Of course, because we're talking about the increased bioavailability of a city, for a country, for young people, for older people, for people of all genders, we're never going to achieve the goal of activating the power of everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u90	Thanks for that. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with me on this. You see, it's so remarkable, and I think it's amazing how much you talk about high-tech in this bill. It's just that high-tech is the only thing that matters, and all we want to be proud of. High-tech doesn't solve everything. The last few years have been a bit of a discussion, and all you have to do is work out for everything or you have to solve it somehow. I feel that it conveys a lack of understanding of the purpose by means of technology over my head. As I've only been through the past, technology has to be for the better, and although it's good and blessed that technology is in the foreground in innovation, we must also ensure access for all of this technology. If it is to be useful to all of us and to push society forward, all must have access to this trend. I'd rather have seen this bill based on higher goals. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me in that, a higher goal for more diversity, and something that Iceland and I can be proud of as a nation? There are other areas that may be, I would like to say, less male, and be able to increase their ways and dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u91	A respectable president. I'm what? A senator sincerely agrees, and if the angle is narrow, there may be a contradiction in a discussion of innovation, which makes sense that there is an umbrella over a fertile thought and power. You feel that talking about society cannot be compared and that governments are going to promote innovation and then have a very narrow view of what is involved in the innovation. Of course, the new creation is not something. It is all kinds. There is also something special in relation to the needs of the economy, if that is the case, for we certainly talk a lot about innovation in connection with the fact that the job life is rather desirable as it is, therefore, rather delicate. We're going to put up with worse traumas because it's as simple as if we're going to expand our cycle and burn up and what a professional life can be, then the angle of view needs to be wide. I don't quite have the basis to appreciate it as a boy. The senator, with high technology or technology, could believe that this bill, such as so many others, forgot to think that all sexes are different. It's very sad if you don't see it in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u92	Mr. President. Here we have a controversial bill in Iceland, which is, in fact, a major change in support of the so-called ecosystem innovation in Iceland, and the central point laid down which has carried the fundamental weight and responsibility to support Icelandic pioneers and Icelandic innovations since the founding of the centre in 2007, 14 years ago. Sadly, what is really the greatest disappointment is that this bill does not contain a strong, sharp view of the future of innovation in Iceland, which is incredibly sad in times when both the call for it and the beautiful speeches and the wonderful promises of Ministers and senators indicate that the innovation will be emphasized as the best way out of Covid. But neither the government budget for the next five years does it indicate nor this bill. A professional minister we'll be talking about here. Despite the beautiful aims of promoting national innovation, support for innovation in high - tech technology and priority projects, and to reduce structure and flexibility so that public funds are most useful to them, the sad fact is that these beautiful promises are simply not followed in this bill, such as 34 stipulations and reviews of it. Much more of them were negative and were deeply concerned about the position of pioneers taking their first steps, concern over the support of innovation in the country, concern over the level of construction research as a result of the collapse of the Creation Centre, concern over the management of Technologies, funding and vagueness of its role, and, Mr. President, simply worry that with the bill there was a significant decrease in support of innovation in a wider understanding. Mr. President. No wonder all these red warning lights, along with all these concerns, springing up in the innovation environment. The reasons for the legislation here are blurred and the bill, which is supposed to be about public support for innovation, is actually only about the task of putting down Iceland's New Creation Center and setting up a technical facility, as I said earlier. The headline of the bill could have been understood, so it would have been a detailed discussion of how public support for innovation and the establishment, as indicated by the bill's name. But that opportunity is not new. For there is sacrifice of death. See, the bill lacks a vision of the role of the government, the government, and how services to important parties in innovation's cycle are best handled. There is also a need to export important services, e.g. we pioneers in the early stages, support to international and international cooperation, and what view we have to deal with important challenges, e.g. on climate change and other major social challenges, as well as the multiple consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and other challenges. The analysis work, which would have provided the basis for the changes in the rejection of the Second Creation Centre and so on in this bill, is simply not available. This is just a matter of preaching in the congregation, as it were. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said in his opponent earlier. And in that minister's sermon, there's an intermediate like the dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was concerned about putting down New Creation Centres, but without any analysis or vision. Mr. President. Let's talk only about the status of innovation and the innovation environment in Iceland. Let's talk only about the vision, how and what the role the State should play, how service to important members of the Neon cycle is best made. As noted in the very good review of Kristján Leósson, development director of the Neo-Equipment Corporation, the total cost for research and development in Iceland increased substantially from 1.7% to 2.2% in 20133/42015 as the proportion of GDP. However, this increase was due only to an increase in the share of enterprises, which increased by less than half in this period, while the State's research and development process to the university and public institutions decreased at the same time as the proportion of GDP from 0.78% to 0.75%. Can I also remind you of who was in charge in 2013 and in 2013? They were the government groups, the independence party, and the forwarding party. Then, over the years, the contributions to research and development of all the above classes decreased. Total research and development expenditures declined to reach 2% of GDP. Again, the reduction was largest in public institutions and was responsible for the share of public institutions in research and development spending by one third in five years, from 2013 to 2018. These facts are based on findings from the Habitat and an overview of information for 2019 C.E. Mr. President. Reduced costs for research and development of public institutions over a third of the past five years are tremendously clear messages, political messages, that the public and the groups at the Board of Governments in 2013-2015 continue their policy in existing government partnerships and continue to support research and development of public institutions. You see, it's politics. By adding their own contributions to university and public research institutions, the government is also promoting research and development activities in the private sector. I'll find out more about that interaction afterwards. The living room has enormous interesting numbers in this context. It presented a comparison between the distribution of expenditures in research and between European developments in 2017. It clearly shows that Iceland is close to the total European Union budget for research and development as a proportion of GDP, with a mean of 2.07% of Europe that year. However, the share of public institutions is on average 2.5-fold lower in Iceland than in the European Union, or 0.09% versus 0.23%. So when it comes to supporting government agencies, research institutions, and universities, we are at the back of the stage when it comes to research and development. We stand far behind many of our neighboring nations in the funding of public institutions in research and development. That is a fact we must face. We need to decide whether we will continue on this course and leave the patent market and the free market only about innovation, evolution and research, or whether we will strengthen our public institutions for the sake of their newfound vertebra, not just here, but we have seen examples, research, analysis and reports that it is precisely a formula for success when it comes to innovation in neighboring countries. However, as shown in the bill's report and as indicated by Kristján Leósson, let us keep it in order that it is true that the government has greatly increased its pay on research and development costs for business over the past decade. They've allowed blood into research and development within them, which is positive. But these remunerations are for companies. While it is good for innovation to take place in an enterprise, it is not necessarily a national advantage. It may also aim to increase economy and to reduce costs, for example. leading to long-term loss of function, etc. It may also be necessary for an enterprise, e.g. to strengthen their position in international competition, but a new creation must arise that creates new opportunities, new companies and new jobs. Much of it comes from government, public institutions, public schools, public research institutions. Although they are not the only place to create innovation, they need to be a strong actor on the stage when we are talking about innovation. It is crucial that the government is in complete contact with the private sector with the aim of connecting parties, seeing new opportunities, forming co-works that can be supported by a foreign fund of research, e.g. from the European Union to which the European Union pays for participation, support the implementation of technical technologies in Icelandic industry, and make it easier for individuals and smaller companies to pursue a field of technical development. Thus, the public enters the stage and is an essential actor. You see, this is the way forward. It is not to continue the political bitch to reduce funding to public institutions when it comes to innovation, research, and analysis but then brag about putting money and money into the private sector, but it will have to be part of it. Icelandic universities have been successful in the scientific work that has made much progress here in recent decades. Unfortunately, not enough success seems to have resulted in the changes in the formulation of employment that was aimed at increasing the increase in university education and an increase in research - related studies in the 1990's when we were going to educate ourselves to prosperity. We've done so, but it still doesn't, since we're talking about the transfers, to link this up ever since with the pros, exactly. Unfortunately, statistics show that Iceland's competitiveness has dropped in recent years in international comparison. In 2015/2017, the country was sitting at 13th in the Global Innovation Index, but between 2018 and 2020,2020, Iceland has fallen to 20,◯23. Sit down. This has occurred despite some consistent and positive annual economic growth during the same period. The strength of Iceland has been a number of published scientific fields and the proportion of research funded by foreign scientific funds involved in international cooperation on field research, analysis, and university work. Our weaknesses are a low ratio of high and intermediate technology in domestic production and export. Sadly, we need to improve greatly when it comes to the number of graduates from science and technology, but we are in the 91st of 106 countries on the control list, and unfortunately, government initiatives have failed to achieve enough success when it comes to it. This is a sad fact and a great challenge when we look to public institutions, our university, our educational system, but also to official institutions on the scene of innovation. This is what we have to turn around. What, then, can be done? In today's pandemic situation, the need for a strong, clear response to a pandemic has been described as a green fight and an emphasis on innovation from that crisis. That's what I always do, and I'll be there for you. It is also a natural reaction because we need to make valuable jobs. We need to educate the nation, but we also have valuable work to do when we are educated. Parts of the response to the pandemic would be to significantly promote the public technical research agency in innovation and strengthen the management of a public agency designed to bridge gaps between research and market. This is a normal reaction rather than simply to preach in the congregation, without any diagnosis or any support for that decision. Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to the minority of two senators. A pro board, a committee at the bill we're talking about here. It's written by the pollist, why. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Frieda, the daughter of Elisabeth, and with her on the opinion, there is why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Of course, I support this excellent and detailed review, which says that there is simply no support for this matter, there is no lack of foundation at the bill, there is a great deal more to prepare for it, there is more work to do. I agree completely with those who have said, "Yes, of course we should go to an assessment of an institution like a New Creation Centre." We are to regularly review what works well, what is less effective, if there is anything we can do to improve the streamline of the Agency and its activities, whether any measures can be taken. But this could have been done in the form of the assessment of the highest level. Minister of employment, as other nations do. Thus, it would have been prepared to build up and deepen our understanding of the nature of innovation and support of it here in Iceland and to offer strong suggestions on how our vision can be felt and how we are going to aim to make ourselves a newborn and a nation that so many of us want to have. [[The president calls.]] That is where we must play our power in the energy industry, on the fishing road. That is where our strengths lie, including ours. and experience. [[The president calls.]] Since Mr. President is starting to ring bells, I'm not going to do this any further than I would like to have been here to discuss a bill that would be forward, forward, and better won. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u93	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u94	A respectable president. I continue my coverage of the European Space Agency, which may seem to be the devil of the sheep in the context of the talks we were listening to. But I am giving my third speech, and this speech is a continuation of those who came first, and I was there. Member that Europe's NASA is not a radical concept. In fact, it is probably in my opinion that we are part of such international cooperation, including the United States. in order to take advantage of the opportunities that we would offer in a new creation in particular, and I would like to discuss two of its smells. It's one of the ways that space science penetrates a lot of areas of human life. It is sometimes forgotten that space science is primarily around the earth, and we have very strong sources of technology and science that affect even the fields that people think of first, say astronomy and physics, but it also involves the history, geology, and the like. Recently, a volcanic eruption in the Smokey Peninsula began. We use satellite images to look at it in an effort to predict things, for analysis, etc. So we take it for granted, but these images are taken from space. It is taken from satellites that, of course, involve space science, and it is something that is only a driving vehicle from the capital area; it affects the technology needed to operate space science and the industry around it. Also, I'd like to do this in the few minutes that I have to cover a little bit of cost because I know that behind my ear, a little demon whispers, I suppose, because people think that this must be an inaccessible thing, like becoming part of an international partnership in space science include building a huge rocket launcher and stuffing lots of money into a rocket and shooting it into the sun. It's not like that. In fact, the most important means we would pay for ourselves is because of the way Europe's NASA operates as an institution. This is an agency for enabling small nations to share in larger projects. It works in such a way that there is a basic value that needs to be paid in order to be part of it. If we look at it, it was a number of cases leading up to a Senate resolution proposal for involvement in the European Institute of Space Science, some 60 million, just over. In the context of the budget, it's almost a joke, a respectable president, for involvement in such cooperation. There would be almost no participation in so - called optional tasks, so I would not suggest that we put only 60 to 70 million in such cooperation. On the contrary, I would suggest that we co-operate hundreds of millions, on the optional projects, with the aim of getting them back to our country. A respectable president. That's what the game is about, getting to Iceland a project that can be done here in the country, people in Iceland. It's the whole point of getting an assignment to the country. This involves the value. This includes investments, which includes innovation. As we look at the European NASA and its role, we're supposed to think big. It's not money we're shooting up at the sun. It is an investment in Icelandic, Icelandic, and Icelandic opportunities. If we consider as an example the relative contribution of land production between several nations, paying attention to these numbers from 2016, we will see that if we were to do as much as Greece in optional ESA projects, this would be about 61 million. If we were to do as much as Belgium, it would be some 750 million respected president who may seem high in connection with nothing. But next to the things we take for granted, let me name the State Church as an example of billions of dollars above, that is not a high figure. So we take it for granted, but when it comes to any amount of money, when it comes to such involvement, it may sound like high numbers. But, a respectable president, it's not. This is a clear opportunity. It's gonna cost a little for the opportunities that are behind it. We're supposed to grab them, and that should be part of our new creation discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u95	A respectable president. Sometimes it is said of something that seems to be an obvious truth, one that does not need to comment on and does not have to explain, that this is not a science of space. But that was just the science of space. A senator stood on this table, and I listened attentively. Now I've read the committee's opinion. A senator and a what. paritaprevir Albertína the Friðbjörg of Elis Elíasdóttir, who forms part of the work committee, about the issues discussed here and who is identified by the committee's view. A senator for this matter. I must admit, though, that I have not been able to hear the previous talks at any time. As a result, I am curious to hear, as if in the short time offered here, what evaluation does he place on the bill, what might it offer, why it might lead to bringing down this institution, and what can be expected for those who now see to be unsure, as well as for intelligent people who have enjoyed contact with this institution up to this point but now see an uncertain time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u96	A respectable president. The putting down of Iceland's New Creation Centre without explaining what to do I believe could have very harmful consequences for the innovation environment in Iceland, especially in the near future, just when we would have to have the maximum sense of regret and the greatest support in the existing system. That's why I'm opposed to this case, although I'm very pleased with the work more than part of the job committee. I would like to say again that there was a role model, and most of the parts worked hard to keep the smaller part with them, informing the memory of the parts at all levels, etc. Despite this and despite a good change, the content of the bill itself is wrong. I don't remember how he put it so beautifully here, but the feeling would have been that it had been some idea that was born somewhere over coffee, putting down the New World Center of Iceland, and that would be such a great idea, and by doing so many things. But then a journey was made before it was thought of what was to be replaced. The interaction that will inevitably result in this I believe is very harmful. With regard to staff of the New Creation Centre, I find it a little difficult to speak for the staff in particular. I know that some of it will look to the private sector and use its workers there because it's not like these people are just on some statespene. These are experts with expertise that are useful. The problem we face is that we may lose these people from the system we have created to help people in the early stages. That is when people cannot pay for their jobs and who have no way of even realizing whether they are paying to give advice and guidance until the idea is longer. [[The president calls.]] It is at the level that we need these experts working to render free service. I'm afraid we'll lose it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u97	A respectable president. It was a pleasure to hear what happened. A member of the Parliament describes the fine cooperation of the committee on the outworking of this matter. True, in this discussion, no one will contribute to the greater part of the company, and I would not be able to offer myself as a thank - you for those warm words. We know that this seems to have led to a belief that it is very important that government agencies are laid down and their tasks are given to private agents, and it appears that the only function is once. The important thing is to point out that some government agency has been laid down, and then you can mark it. It's a feeling when you're at it. A senator, if any. The pro board could have been allowed to win this case unconcerned by these dogmas and from this vision of the government and the Supreme Court. Ministers and only had been allowed to win the case in peace, so it could have been made more successful, but now it seems to be the case, and there could still be a possibility of failure. Could a committee take over the matter again and try to resolve the problems that are obviously in the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u98	A respectable president. I'll start eventually. I think it's quite normal that this case should get a closer discussion on a professional committee, but I didn't vote by taking it out of a committee and explaining my case, so I just didn't think it was ready and, actually, I don't think it could be ready because I think the input is wrong. On the other hand, I believe that it is possible to improve, and then I would support it. As for the drive force behind the fact that more of the committee will take it out and continue with the case, I'm going to ask for a few more pity for the greater part because a minister of his particular indiscretions in the case will start the job before the law is given. In this respect, the damage is already begun, the uncertainty is there. The European Commission has begun to act as if this law had already been passed. The majority are in position to try to fix either this matter what best he can and try to make the best of it, or - what? That's what you're wondering. Don't you get it over with and let the government fuck it up like that? A respectable president. I don't envy the more part of being in this situation. I would just want this case to be started from scratch. As an alternative, I would choose that it would be better, but I think it would be very difficult to win it so that it would be good enough at this point. On the other hand, I'd also like to make it clear: I consider this mess to be the Minister who presented the case and assumed that it would just be approved here after starting to attack the changes expected by the bill. It seems irresponsible to me, especially in the situations we are in right now, where we need a strong and predictable innovation environment for those who are now out of work but have ideas that could be used if they knew the opportunities and had the opportunity for a system that would be considered from the beginning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u99	President. This is an interesting subject on official support for innovation. This is my second speech, and I would like to agree with the final words of the speaker in answer to the problem we have on this matter. It has simply been shoveled away what is now, and something must be replaced. Is it coming back again? It is likely not best, since specific improvements were requested in the New World Translation Centres. Everyone knew, and everyone was expecting such suggestions. But this came instead, and it all was thrown away. At the time that all was thrown away, there was no suggestion as to what should be replaced. This bill, which will appear some time later, suggests what to replace, and it is enormously empty, so to speak. But all right, maybe let's just hold on to hope. The next year, the budget was being set up, 2022 Guy26. In a financial program, the government puts in place its policy, how to arrange objects in the other and these lawsuits until the next five years. Perhaps this evidence of official support for innovation is better explained in financial programmes. It could be. Of course, that should be so, regardless of whether it is done in this bill or not. But knowingly, it simply does not. On page 18. 136 is a section on the increase in innovation and growth with the use of data, but nothing there is about the innovation environment as it should be. In this financial program, governments decide not to make any policy, they refer to the policies they produced before the year, and the policy was precisely no policy, but, in the majority of categories, in the majority of cases that covered it, to the digital infrastructure that came as an injection for the Covid pandemic, to live on, and to offer contributions for climate operations, which are actually input from reserves, which were due to an outbreak campaign. It has been added to the reserve, and now it is presented as a growth in climate, but it is actually just an intermediary from reserve to climate. It's like this in everything. There is no vision, no policy on how the innovation environment should look when this bill is approved. And the bill is enormously demeaning. There's only a few articles on the structure and a really rough line on what's really going to happen in this technical site, and done. The other one must somehow be filled into the past, with some kind of preferred minister after all. It has only been added here in the Committee's study of digital carpenters and counseling and the like and in an adjustment form for the implementation of Kía for application to part of the country, which was to be taken anyway, it's a double, it's been tried to get twice for the same proposal. It's a typical government thing, it's so small from her that she has to brag about the same thing often. That's what happened in the struggle for biographies. Just before they were approved, the ball was held by the government. They needed practical suggestions to improve the biographer agreements and the suggestions that came largely were suggestions already presented in financial programmes; they were presented as new suggestions in the biography agreements. This is the story from A to O with this government. We've all seen color books where no pictures exist but numbers, and hardly numbers, you may have less than half the numbers needed to draw up the picture before you can start coloring it. It is not that you can trace the path with the pen to draw the lines up but you have to guess where the next number is. This is a description of the development of official support for innovation as a result of this bill. And the financial plan, as I added in my second speech, because I may have expected that there was something about innovation, something that would better explain the future view of the government. But no, it's not like that. This is primarily about artificial intelligence, half of the text deals with the role of artificial intelligence in the Icelandic community; box 16, artificial intelligence for the entire nation, which is well diagnosed already, perhaps would be highly useful, it is true, but nothing about the new creation itself. That's where the knife in the cow, after all. In those days, most were adding innovation to the problem we are in because of the job market, that innovation is the way out of this business problem. That's not a new idea. It is an idea that has existed since the turn of the century to create a new source of Icelandic employment, a variety of themes. Big but varied. Not big and monotonous, as we have so far been in fishing, ice, or energy industry, all over the sector, in the banking sector, and in the tourism industry. That is a very monotonous purpose behind all of the industry. Minor fluttering of those pillars has a major impact on Iceland's economy. However, we want the big and broad support of innovation, where minor flutters have no effect on the support and economy of the country, since innovation covers so many projects. It has been found in the reports of Technical Development Funds and the Second Creation Centres to be improved because the public ministry is extremely high. Not just that, but the ideas and opportunities are literally all over the country. This is exactly what we saw at the end of the summer when applications were received in the Technical Development Fund, with only 8% of applications approved. There are a lot of ideas ready to get started, trigger new projects, create jobs, and make valuables, create better lives for people all over the country. But as occurred last spring, when the government's government put three times as much money in innovation as the government did, six times higher to begin with, the government only added, the amount contributed by the government was about exactly what could be used for that period. It was the government scene that was right there, not the board. She underestimated both the epidemic and the ability and the imagination of people all over the country to create a better life for us who live here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. This was a subject of substance, but it included digital carpenters. I would like to, with the permission of the president, to read a little from a committee list of 1st, smaller parts at the same time. Business committee, which says: While the prime minister is providing additional contributions to the network of digital carpenters in the country, it is not to be seen from the bill or the evidence that the Ministry completed the work that the Council appointed by the Council to do at its time. It would have been an opportunity to provide such a program in the bill and at the same time shape the production of digital carpenters and their purposes, but it is not. Although the improvement of the majority is needed, the change in part 1 is still lacking, in terms of less than 1st in order to realize that digital development is assured for the future and that there is an overall vision of their operation. Now I know what to do. A senator is extremely knowledgeable in public financial and financial matters, and I would like to hear from him about this concern, whether there is reason for concern over this important business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u101	A respectable president. This is a very good question, and what I would have wanted to add about what is being done in a financial programme, or is it rather not in a financial program because this is not an uplifted policy of subject burning from the document adopted by the World Council by Christmas? For example, there is no additional or more developed policy in the region where we find digital carpenters, where no extra money was proposed for the expansion of digital carpenters approved by the General Assembly of Congress on building and access to digital carpenters. So, first of all, I don't think there's anything to worry about the digital carpenters that are already there. I think their foundation must be guaranteed. It is not obvious that it is, but both the Minister of Education and the Ministers of Education, Industrial and Neoplasms have indicated that they are not about to disappear at the moment. However, there is a need for policy-making to enforce the synonym that was adopted at Congress to increase access, not only to high school students, as the original proposal was about, but also to what the Council added and all agreed, to increase the availability of basic students throughout the country to such carpenters or machines. So, no, I'm not worried about how a digital carpenter works at the moment. It's not easy, it might be better, but at least it won't get worse, it's relatively little said in terms of it. But, yes, there is no future policy. She's none.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Yes, it is a kind of thing, these are beautiful promises and beautiful words, and surely beautiful meanings, too, that lie behind them and good and noble intentions, but it is as if the project sort of happens to be in an image because of lack of financial support. It's as if these things don't follow a complete awareness that these things are going to cost, and any money must be spent to keep things like this, should be a picture of the operation. I'd like to ask you a second question to come up with something else that's also painted on the committee's list. 1st smaller section of the Committee. It says of the technical setting, the changed management structure, that Iceland's University pointed out that this modified form of society, especially with the European Union, may have some potential, but a private partner will always need some time to gain credibility to cover the costs of some long-term work that government agencies don't need. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is also a concern that might be significant?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u103	President. In my first speech, I noticed that this form of company is very strange. It's supposed to be a private society, but the State owns it all with skin and hair. Secretary of the budget is holding all the shares. The Society is an exception to some section of the law on private stocks and has to follow information laws. I can't quite figure out who, after all, is the difference between this private partner and a public agency. I guess there's something about the personnel business, which is all very interesting. But I think it might cause a little confusion. Here comes a private partner, like what. A senator asked about, to the European Union, and first he sees some private partner that he knows nothing about. But it's also stated that it belongs to 100% of the state and is actually an official firm, but it's still different because it's the politics of some people to make sure that it's a private thing, not an official partner because some have got green bubbles out of ohf. Because it's such a embarrassing business form or something like that, just because they don't know how to handle it or something, I don't know. We're in a very strange place with the business plan on this, where there has to be an institution, it's political ideologies, but then something must be created instead of having to be done in the ministry. It's necessary. It has been shown that it pays many times, but it needs to be done in some way so that it can be proud of having reduced the booth but at the same time engaged in the ministry. Yeah, I think it'll be embarrassing to apply for strength at first. But I think it'll get tough when the others realize that this is an official firm after all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u104	A respectable president. I've been sitting here today, observing the discussions on this matter, which I shall admit I didn't have much knowledge of more than any other senator, and I haven't yet. Yet, this is fascinating for many reasons. In many respects, this is a typical case for the government. Only first, to pick up the thread from what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, of the business form. This is not an official community, as we have an example, and no one may fully understand what is going on. This is some kind of a private public partner or public partner, and it's hard to see what it's all about with the management plan, except that there may be some ideological issues involved. Sometimes you feel as if by innovation in this country the motto is: Let 100 flowers bloom and wither. Let 100 flowers wither. Let's let 100 flowers just pop up, live for a while, then the inevitable rapid comes, and they get to die. We're gonna get something going. We're gonna start something. But then, under our head, we take care of the grafts we have put in the dust. We forget them, and rather than nurture these grafts, we let them go, and with the result that there will be some growth that can produce and be of great value to us, as we have in fact an example. Go away, that's what they're talking about, and it seems to be the headline for all of these suggestions. However, it turns out to be some tool for operating plans and moving, even between parts of the country, i.e. it doesn't go away. It may not be a booth. It is a political label. It's a political propaganda. However, this policy is to put down government agencies, or to be griting in public institutions in the name of the request to be removed, has been bitten by many national labour agencies, now the last of the Neighbours Labs. We have an example of the Fed. We're here to discuss the head of the IRS, and then there's a New Creation Center. So here we are talking about putting down the person who has cared for the pioneers in Iceland since 2007 and there in the wall has been a knowledge of staff. The staff comes and goes, but there is still some knowledge left in the Agency. We call this asteroid memory, and sometimes we forget how important it is to have such a foundation memory and how important it is for those who come to the relevant institutions to see that they have a memory like that. The importance and importance of this institution are also clearly seen. This is seen in the vast number of reports that have been received to the committee. There are 34 discourses, and the reviews and visitors are 86 meeting at the committee. As I understand, these guests, more than one and even more of them, and as well as these assigned talks on it, doubt, so strongly, about these plans. There was a lot of anxiety. They were particularly concerned about the pioneers who are taking their first steps. There was concern over support for pioneers and pioneers and innovations in the scattered areas of the country, the settlements. There was a special concern about what would happen to construction tests when the New Creation Center was laid down. There is no need for many to comment on the importance of these studies in this country, since building a house that we have done in a way that is very different in its own way so that it is not fixed. A recent building is being ripped down because it is not based on Icelandic and Icelandic weather conditions. There is not enough knowledge behind the building, and an institution like this natural special role is to play. There was also concern over the business of a technical facility, which I made here as a subject, a financing of its financing, and a hazy errand, and a vague role. In other words, support for innovation is being reduced, and many guests expressed concern about it. There's been a little talk this afternoon, what I've heard from a lot of clever speeches, about this sort of organization as an adaptor. It's an intermediate between industry and the Academy. It's a transfer between industry and creative articles, creative parties, and it's an intermediate between creative parties and academics. It may be a better illustration to compare it to a type of transportation center. That's all there is to it. That's all there is to it. There are people with knowledge. There is fuel, and everyone can look for the services they need if their flower is to flourish, not just to wither. It's very important that we keep this symptom on hold and it won't be too much media control. In this regard, I want to remind you of an excellent discussion that took place here at the Assembly Hall of Days on cluster policy development, the discussion on the top of a report. Tourism, industrial and innovation minister for the shape of cluster policy in which everyone was all concerned about the vision of which the cluster policy is to be introduced into Icelandic employment and the ecology ideas it contains. And if I, Mr. President, allow me to quote myself in that discussion, I spoke there that a good dress was like a beautiful Icelandic bed where there are countless little flowers that live together and feed each other in ecosystems where they are not a threat to one another but that are in cooperation with each other to live and thrive. I think this idea is now, to shut down Iceland's New Creation Center, not to be in the spirit of this cluster policy, on the contrary. She's upset everything. If we resemble Icelandic employment, where everything is full of some lovely little flower that needs to feed and thrive side by side, this action is like some type of natural disaster that threatens this spell, or perhaps it can be compared to when, suddenly, a series of sheep bites. This is big. This is about how the Icelanders have planned to adjust their affairs in the future, how they intend to give more support to their professional life, and how they intend to create a healthy, strong, successful, professional life. Most important, how Icelanders plan to continue to be a powerful society based on a well - educated people here who choose to raise their children and live here, not anywhere in Europe or elsewhere, which is by no means the means possible. I know someone else is. Senators have also made this a subject of publicity, but I am still laughing at the comments of Kristján Leósson about Iceland's competitiveness in international comparison, which must claim to be a bit off-limits. He states that Iceland was in the 13th list of Global Innovation Index in 2015-2017, while it was in the year 2018/2020, at 20,◯23. Sit down. This is not really acceptable. He also noted that among Iceland's main strengths in recent years there have been a number of published scientific fields and the percentages of research funded by foreign funding, but among major weaknesses, there was a low ratio of high and intermediate technology in domestic production and export, and the land is lower on the number of graduates from scientific and technical schools. That's where there's little fog in it. This is linked to all of it because an environment that encourages innovation and prism and the head only creation, a creative environment, attracts creative people, who once again produce valuables, both of which will be counted in crowns and pennies and spiritual values, which will produce beautiful human life. Taking into account that activities such as those conducted in Iceland's New Creation Center with vague plans for technology can prove to be a very dangerous game. A few last words, just the staff. Among the things expressed in these thoughts about the bloc and these calls for the booth to be removed - even if it is never plainly said, there is somehow another thought that we institutions, which are listed within these booths, do people with something unnecessary. These are unnecessary jobs that are in a national economy. Somehow it seems that the plan is that these people can find something else. I think it is also a very dangerous thought because the people who are engaged in public service here, whether in school, health systems, or in specialized activities such as those in the hands of the New Creation Center, all of us are needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u105	V.E.G. President. I'm thinking of a proposal for a conference resolution on education policy for the years 2020,2030 from the General and Education Committee. The aim of education is to provide excellent education in an environment where all can learn and all are important. Thus, education is a guide of perseverance, courage, knowledge, and happiness, and it is designed to support the vision ahead. A clear policy on priorities in education and knowledge development increases quality of life and value. It lays the foundation for a stronger community. This policy of education was taken on extensive consultations with stakeholders, including the U.S. published in a crossword puzzle. A total of 38 comments were received that were positive to the course. The reviews made some helpful comments that were addressed. I'm not going to read the whole committee opinion, but that's a lot of stuff, because it's a big, important case. This is where we're laying the lines for the next decade, how we see the education system developing and developing, including in line with the needs of the economy and in response to technological development and other changes that occur rapidly in the community. As noted earlier, a number of reviews were made up of the committee, and the committee also received numerous members, though not all of them. I have to say that, topv. For my part, the reviews were exceptionally rich, and they contained all the things that were very important to the work of the Committee. These were not repetitions but new and important viewpoints that we took into account when we decided how the committee's view should now be made and whether and how the adjustments should be made. The red thread, which all clients agreed on, is the key to the development of academicism. It was emphasized that implementation programmes followed by this policy will be conducted in a close conversation with a strategist and that measures are financed. We can come up with new and new policies indefinitely, but to get things done, we need to follow the budget, as we know. The follow-up of the policy was also emphasized, and it would have to be a clear priority, setting priorities where all goals will definitely not be reached in one phase. It was also pointed out that it was important to look at the work that has already been done. Here in the Committee magazine, we list a number of reports and various groups that are involved in education. That work is important for continued work, that we do not forget what has been done well so far. The Committee gave the opinion that policy was primarily aimed at education in games, elementary and higher schools, but would not take into account the ever-reeding system, the so-called fifth foundation of education. In view of the rights of the Committee for Education, it is intended to address all aspects of the education system, ranging from high school to university and the ever-and-renewing system. There was much discussion, and there was to be a great convergence on this point. The Commission's right to education policy is intended to frame the emphasis that will be placed in the foregrounds of education for the next ten years. Some details and measures will be provided in the induction schedule, but the first schedule should be submitted and indicated by a minister within six months of the agreed proposal. In light of the Committee, it is important that at the time of induction there is a clear work programme and policy, including priorities, cost evaluation and definition of responsibilities and roles for the induction and implementation. This point I would like to highlight entirely because it is often so, not just for us in the management department, but in companies in general, that people agree on the importance of projects and changes, but also often lack of follow-up and that there are measurable goals and clear responsibilities between parties so that things are not involved and there are very little work to be done. That's where I want to stay, my chief. President, and underscore this, that capitalism, priorities are clear, cost estimate, responsibilities, measurable goals, and follow-up. This is vital if we are going to succeed and achieve positive and essential changes in education. In this article, there is a chapter on equal opportunities for anyone who is one of the main objectives of education. The reviews mentioned, and there was a considerable discussion, a study offer for those with disability. There is still a lack of sufficient educational opportunities for those with disability, and it was noted that in the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people validated in Iceland, educational systems should be implemented at all levels without separation and life studies. The committee claims that this will be taken into account during the induction of academic policy. It was also stated that students of a foreign background would need to be kept in good arms so that they can stand equal to others, as well as to ensure the availability of students in the country to study appropriately and generally for all groups of society. In terms of the more widely distributed areas, the committee also stresses the need for us to look forward further to using existing technology to provide the services of people far and wide around the country, to increase access to and strengthen study. The Covid epidemic has given us some insights and may be a factor in this. Most of us have come to know more about what it is like and what opportunities we have to use our technology to gain new knowledge. However, this technology and increased access to studies are equally similar to those with disability, perhaps because of their disability, other communication methods, or because of other barriers, traveling around and around. This may make it easier for them, e.g. to pursue education, so there are tremendous opportunities that the committee wants to stress, further use the technology to balance people's status. V.E.G. President. The committee also speaks of the need to consider the early support and interaction of services. It is necessary for all children to receive a proper service and proper support so that they do not miss out on opportunities for study and development. In view of this, the Committee points to the bill of the social and child - care committee on integrating services for the benefit of successful children, 354. Of course, this overlaps partly with the implementation and induction of academic policy and must be looked into. The committee received reviews - now I can't remember right now, I don't have the folder with me - where we were pointed out the importance of development tests. We wanted to have it in our opinion because this point may be more important than you can see at first sight, i.e. that tests for development are first available and second, updated with respect to current research and information. A mature test of the student's status is important, and it is important to identify where the student is so that he can be given the services and support that may be needed. The objective, of course, is to give everyone equal opportunity to study and support, as I said earlier. Hence, we need to be able to meet students where they are standing. We committees were advised that the tests used here do not meet the requirements for the latest IQs, general developments in the environment and the knowledge of children here on land and technology development. There is no organisation or public authority responsible for the development of a local country's test. It's obvious here, the highest. President, there's a lot of offenses. The General Information and Education Committee considers it very important to be laid up and taken into consideration for the implementation of educational policy. I have to say that, topv. Mr President, this really surprised me. You somehow assumed that everything would be as good as it should be because it's such a huge foundation that we can meet students and help them and make sure that we want to be there for all children and people. This is not to be forgotten at work that lies ahead. The next chapter of this article discusses basic lessons. To make a long story short, consider the importance of ensuring the teacher's working environment. We are going to graduate a number of teachers every year, and teachers have increased the number of people, but at the same time people with teachers are not necessarily teaching. Of course, there are a number of reasons. But part of the reason may be that the teacher's working environment is simply too demanding and possibly not enough to prepare teachers for the complex environment they have to deal with. There is a possibility that they need to be taught on different methods of teaching and to increase, for example, the need to be taught. Children's education, security in digital society, financiallocks, and a number of other things that may have been missing a little at the teacher's school. Of course, for the teachers to be able to teach all of this, they themselves need such instruction in their studies as well as, as I said earlier, preparation to deal with a wide variety of students and different needs. Society is not alone today as it may have been 20 years ago, let alone 30 years ago. Then we make room for school design and how to strengthen a teacher when they are in school and are taking the students and helping them and teaching them. It's a tough job, it's a demanding job, and the work load on teachers is generally very much. They may not only be teaching in the classroom but also often have to deal with complex things that arise in the lives of students and even entire families. This results in tremendous stress and stress. So there's a little bit here, chief. President, in stressing the importance of being visible to professionals in the education system in order to provide the services of children who need specific measures and also to strengthen and support their teachers so that they can receive and care for the diverse school systems. It also shows that in order to stand up to our neighbors, professional classes need to be better able to get into school, thereby reducing the pressures of teachers and giving increased support to students. This is where we have students and professional counselors, social counselors and psychologists and such professions, occupational coaches and things that are very important, to ensure the best working environment for teachers, as well as to support students in the schools. The next chapter discusses the qualifications for the future and the opinions of boys in the educational system, but the study shows that up to 34% of boys cannot read for themselves. Boys also return to high school and college worse. We discussed this extensively on the committee and received reviews and information that were very illuminating. This point, the educational status of boys, needs to take a special look and find effective ways to overcome the problem. We focus on taking in a more variety of reading skills and making sure that reading skills and reading skills are transferred into our modern world and that students are really able to read for their benefit. To date, much emphasis has been placed on speed measurements in reading. This is an important point to include the committee for further consideration at work. It is called a national covenant for locks that began in the fall of 2015, but it was a covenant that had the goal that all children can read for their benefit at the end of high school. The project was financed for five years, and it is a major investment. The Commission therefore feels that it is important that during the implementation of the policy, this project will be reviewed and that the continuation of the policy will be considered, in line with the importance of the policy, including: in a sense of reading. Then the judicial committee will see the importance of not defined too narrow a lock. The art of culture, financiallock, intelligence, technology, and nature is all the basic skills that the education system needs to be able to build up with individuals and to make good use of the community. In addition, it is important to highlight digital knowledge, environment and sustainableity. They believe that it is important for students to know how to look for information, to appreciate their authenticity, and to take advantage of the information they have. In this context, libraries, especially textbooks, are important. The committee met with representatives from our textbooks, as well as with their reviews. School libraries play a role in children's education. There's been a lot of discussions about professional, industrial and technical studies. The situation is that we have rather lacked people there, I don't know how to say this, but it may not have been in fashion so far, I hope it's changing, taking such a course. This has been strange because we need a wide variety of education to support the nation's economic life and to increase its prosperity. We need people with creative thinking, who can look a little outside the box. This is especially important today when all this technological development is as fast as it is. We may not have to throw what we once had, but we need to keep it to the best of our life, but we need to run faster and be alert. Work, industry, and technology have always been important, but especially now. The committee puts it this way in the opinion that more is needed because young people are better acquainted with this kind of study and are more familiar with the opportunities of such a study and are also presenting it to primary students so that they can gain insight into the industrial and technical branches. This may increase the likelihood that people will choose to study at their age. Then there's also an important point here, the highest. President, regarding information, not only to basic schoolchildren, but also to those in the labour market, i.e. to emphasize academic and professional advice and presentation and information to all, especially those with little or no formal education. People can see better in the tools they have been able to reach the labour market to improve knowledge in the way they need the workforce and also to strengthen their position in the labour market. At the same time, it says here, the highest. To consider whether there is a need for a school syllabus outside the traditional school system. Because the workforce is constantly changing, we need to respond to it in education. This means making sure that working people can improve their ability to comply with the job drive on the knowledge and ability of employees. The committee was advised that the long-term lack of education and skills is not available in the labour market. This is something that clearly needs to be adjusted. Our neighbors have such long - term cards, and we can do that work. It pays long term, especially with regard to the fourth industrial revolution, as stated here, where the results of such a predictor make it easier to shape educational policies and improve the interaction of education systems and a labour market. During the treatment of the problem, it was noted that in education, there is no information about education code that describes qualifications for the school-level and professional school-definition requirements. In addition to the Icelandic programme, if it is now being made, obligatory the education system, and easier to compare with other educational systems in Europe, which are also based on the European qualications frame. This would increase the possibility of the Icelanders'search for additional knowledge abroad, or perhaps not necessarily more than simple, making it more accessible because their skills were consistent with other European educational systems based on the European skills frame. You know, when you have a lot to say, time flies from you, but I'm way out of line. President. In the next chapter, about the quality of well - being, the Committee evaluates it to increase the importance of the services of psychologists as well as academic and professional counselors and sociologists within the walls of the school. This has to do with what I said earlier on the job of teachers and services to students. The foreground quality section refers to technology and a digital world as well as changes in technology, security, morals, and young people. Care must be taken to ensure that all have access to technology at all times and that the school system does not reassemble in these digital changes. We discussed a number of study articles on the committee. Then I'd especially like to point out the review from India, I think it was - the ones who follow the talk may be able to correct me if I'm wrong. It has to do with this digital development. With the development of telecommunications and telecommunications and all these digital changes that we witness and participate in, the potential for the production of the digital study material has increased dramatically. The Committee discussed the preparation of the study material and the need to increase its version as well as to update the study material. There is a requirement for flexibility and individual study. The study material needs to be adjusted, as well as the requirements for this and is designed to form, is a good way to revise out - of - date study material. It is as if there is not enough time to determine whether the material is still in the way of time. Here is a phrase in the committee's opinion that there is a need to increase the printing of the digital subject at all school levels. This could be viewed by other northern countries that are far superior to ours, so systems exist and have been tested for several years. The committee points out that the publishing and presentation of bookbooks for high school has begun on the roads of India, mentioned earlier, and is still in an experimental stage. The committee believes that with the digital study aid of the entire school system, the school system will become more equal and modernized, and it will be easier to update study material to the rhythm of time. In this context, the highest. President, the judicial committee makes it important for everyone to receive the study tools that are appropriate. Use the potential for digital technology to produce and publish educational data that is appropriate for all. No matter what lines of communication they use, everyone should have access to study tools that we would like to have. It thus opens up opportunities for those with a different learning disability, as well as for disabled people and others who might have better access to appropriate study material, which would more often be updated to the needs of society. In the opinion of the Committee, it is important to emphasize digital skills. Digital skills cross the limits of policy support and emphasis. The experience and knowledge of other northern countries should easily be based, since most of them have set special goals and have initiated action to trust this aspect of education. That is, as I said, not just about study subjects but about the general educational system. This is the case with digital skills that must be considered at work ahead of time. V.E.G. President. There's only seconds left in my speaking class. I'm not going to read about the changes made by the Committee, but they're in the document. Under the committee of the above - mentioned publications, Páll Magnússon, Guðmundur and Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birggis Birgir of Ármannsson, Árnadóttir Örún Örún Örjörður Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunllótir, and Olga Margrét Cilia, who sign in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u106	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. The field of education for the years 2020,2030 is full of beautiful, elegant words. And even more words than in policy itself are mentioned by the name of the greater part. I've heard all those words before when we talk about education. Mr. President. Don't get me wrong if I say this, it's very important to talk about education and emphasis and what it is that we want to do to educate our young people so that they can meet challenges in life and get the chance to learn the rest of their lives. Hv. In his speech a senator spoke of the need for funding to implement his policy. I notice that there are results and that they should be set up, but there is no record of success. I'm a little surprised that the committee hasn't made it that one of its proposed changes would then have to evaluate the results, whether they had been caught after a certain time. With the funding, Mr President, we've just been talking about this past year. The budget for the 20222/226, but it does not say that they should place capitals in ambitious education. Nor does it say, if I recall correctly, in the budget for the year 2021/2025, the future vision of the government. I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether this is a half purpose, as she mentioned earlier, if funding does not follow this fine course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u107	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter for the counter-sponsored. Yes, indeed, the course is not repetitious, but the words are beautiful. That's right. We must have heard them many times before, too. Education is an important beginning, and as I said earlier, the reviews reached the Committee all very positive, and people in general agreed that it was time to pursue educational policies and start this work. As I tried to stress my language, on smaller projects, education is a firm grip on all the work that must be done, which, in turn, will be divided down. In this context, the committee stressed that there would be a great deal of consultation with the professionals associated with specific tasks. We also emphasized the need for priorities and costs. There would have to be a clear responsibilities, and there would need to be good follow-up and just measurable. I thought it would be in the commission, but I may have seen it somewhere else. However, in my talk, I said that goals needed to be measurable so that regular evaluations and compliance with the goals set out within each project can be made available. It needs to be a very strong project management over each project. I may be able to do that in a second answer, but of course, financial support is needed. I can't express myself about the financial program, I haven't even submerged it yet, but we'll start talking about it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u108	Mr. President. Hv. A senator does not need to discuss or read a new financial program to find out whether to expand his education, for it is the old financial program, which is the government's vision, and we have considered it, and that is exactly critical that there is not enough money in education or structure to be spoken of in that direction. Work, industry and technical studies are discussed. Get young people to learn more in that area. However, President, in recent decades such goals have been set up, and high school has tried to introduce it, as well as basic schools. They've created books and videos and cards, and I don't know what, and we're still in exactly the same percentage between class and book study. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she sees something in the community today as different, so that it works better than in recent decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u109	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say about the financial program that it's certainly true that we agreed on a financial plan, that I think, in November. We'll start a discussion tomorrow about her update. But education is, as I said before, the first step and I assumed, at least we emphasized on the committee that when plans and projects decline in accordance with education policy, they should follow up with the budget. I hope so. At least we'll put it on the committee opinion. In terms of growth in occupational, industrial, and technical studies, I think the development will be an increase in the number of students in these articles. We are, for example. with one issue now on the General Information and Education Committee regarding the university, which would support that development. Also, a positive debate in the community on professional, industrial, and technological studies is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u110	Mr. President. Thank you. A pilot, w-w. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, for bringing us this committee view of education. I'm glad we're in the hands of education to the year 2030, this is a decade. This area is wide cover, high goals, and most boxes are checked. But there are a few things we could use as easy as possible. Hv. A manager went over some of them, and the committee's opinion highlights a point that is simply set free in academic policy itself. I just want to talk about a variety of cultures. Iceland is declared to be a multisession community, with some equipment on it, but in Iceland, there are now some 50,000 immigrants, about 14% of the nation, and there are legitimate citizens in themselves. I don't think this academic policy is sufficiently considerate of that. It's hardly a matter of course, but it's in the committee's opinion. I'm asking why. A senator will see if she feels that this is an inexhaustible and acceptable assessment and how this was discussed on the committee. The same is true with regard to study evaluation. It is close to those who suffer from disability and problems. There is no mention of study evaluation for people of foreign origin, all signs indicating that they will not receive their rights, that they will not enjoy the education they have acquired in their own country. What does it say? A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u111	V.E.G. President. I may be able to answer these questions as if I expect to. paritaprevir The Guðjón of S. Brjánsson are happy that academicism has developed. At least I understood his speech like that. As I said earlier when I answered why. paritaprevir The new Oddný Harðardóttir is a fixed education policy and is determined by a very high level of work that will be involved in the implementation of individual tasks related to different groups, such as people of a foreign background. Hence, because the committee is pointing to things that she feels need to be looked at when work is continued, it is considered unusual and with many points, more points than education itself. As I mentioned earlier, there were a number of reviews and many visitors on the committee, and each guest had a number of points that improved the subject and opened our eyes to things we had not figured out. That is why we felt the need to list these factors, such as the ability frames, the tests of development, and other factors that do not necessarily fit into such policies. She's just a guide at work. A policy is never detailed, with a list of everything you need to do. It's another step at work. As the senator said, we mentioned in the very opinion of people of foreign origin and added them along with other special groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's the point, the introduction of education is, of course, the key to achieving the set goals, as follows, in the conclusion of the policy. I'm surprised that in this educational policy, this important aspect of adult education is being avoided, for this is a special feature of education for the rest of our lives. It is the ever - increasing education centers and the educational centers that play a vital role in society. And because we were talking about innovation here at the 4th part of the council today, they can do just that. Despite the often mentioned fifth support, as mentioned in the committee, these institutions have been very insecure about their activities and governments and have not given the place to which they should go. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u113	V.E.G. President. The role of us senators and members of the council is to improve matters that come from stewards and when we feel that something doesn't match or something is missing, we agree on these in committees and with adjustments and other suggestions that we put forth to discuss in committees and halls. I hear what you're saying. paritaprevir The Brjánsson J.sson's S. - fearing husband has read the committee's opinion very carefully, and that is exactly a fine consideration of the importance of this fifth foundation of education. I got a special question about her here on my way out from what? A senator and I agree that, of course, we should highlight the fifth foundation, which is very important in the education system, and we certainly need to go to some additional job to ensure the work and status of the institutions in the process and re-education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and, actually, the whole committee for this committee's opinion and change, and I have no doubt that this was a problem. Like I said to the first round. I realize that it is always difficult to establish policy priorities, and we don't want it to be too big and too big. I see this committee has added something, has some adjustments. I'm just going to say that I like this very quickly, and I don't doubt that there's been much work to do. Of course, it's really good that we have advanced in education. I think it's very important. Of course, the result is important, such as why. The committee puts it well, that a set of priorities is then made, perhaps not all the goals that can be met in one phase. Well, then I'm just wondering if I'm gonna have a gyp. I heard part of a talk coming from you. paritaprevir This case is addressed to our boys by Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and I am referred to in the committee's opinion. I don't know if I understand the correct conclusion that there's no adjustment motion that is directly involved. Okay, then I get it right. I wondered what the discussion is, what the committee saw that we needed to do about it. There is a chapter in the section entitled "Japanese Opportunity Opportunities for All, They Talk About Disturbation, Foreign Origins, People of the Country, and When It comes to the Sensitization Approach, It is referred to as the need to increase the number of people in equality and gender. But I wondered: " Don't we also need a policy that doesn't have such a sexual approach to the educational material, so that we approach the sexes in different ways? We see that boys don't seem to be feeling well enough in the school system, they don't get the same results as girls. [[The president calls.]] The question, then, is: Do we not have to change something in the system itself simply to offer them a better education that is convenient for them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u115	V.E.G. President. The committee may not have worked on making specific arrangements, how to change the position that boys are in according to the statistics we have. They need to be employed, as mentioned in the opinion of the committee. It's now, and it's not just about boys, that we're always with people different, with different needs, people with disability, disorders, genders, different backgrounds, etc., and needs different approaches. That's why I say for my part that we may need to have more variety and more selection, different approach to institutions of education. At such times, they may be able to choose better from school after an incident, as appropriate. We may still be a little stuck in the form. These are thoughts that we may need to look ahead at, but the committee, such as these, did not think of some possible way about the boys, which is not necessarily the case with experts. However, this is a work assignment that needs to be considered in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer, and I agree. Actually, I think we need to do more than look at it, we just need to do some action. I find it sad to hear my boys say that school is just for girls, that it's just made for girls, and that it liked girls much better, and then see the conclusion that all too many boys can't read for themselves. There's a lot I'd like to mention, and then I'll just do it in a talk later. I can see here in the committee's opinion that the number of male teachers has been reduced. I'm going to commend the highest. Education Ministers in particular have been able to increase the number of students applying for the training program, and this is of utmost importance. It is also discussed in the committee's opinion that we see certain aging within the class. Then I also ask: Is it not important that we make it our goal not only to increase the number of those who want to apply to the school but also to increase the number of men who apply and then return to school?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u117	A respectable president. Yes, I agree that we need to increase the number of men in the teachers'class because our boys need, and various studies indicate that, models at school, and they may find them rather in male teachers, at least in some way. It is also an assignment, and I just look forward to listening to a talk. A senator may be able to convey her ideas about how, first of all, we could be better able to meet boys in the school system, especially to strengthen them, and also how best to achieve the goal of raising male teachers because it is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u118	A respectable president. We're here on the Council's Educational Policy proposal for the next ten years, or nine, from 2020-2030. It became a very good discussion on the committee, and it came to us, as one authority pointed out, visitors who made a lot of good decisions and made good data at work, and when we put this committee into consideration and look with us to the future. First and foremost, I want to say that this is a line of work ahead of us. It is divided into three induction periods and, at the beginning of each season, a plan should be provided together with action and guidance. How important it is that we are able to speak what we are doing, especially in the school! I think there's been a chance of improving the system even further. The first schedule should be submitted within six months, i.e. At the latest in October. It would be fun if we were to do so within that framework, but otherwise it will be in the hands of a new Minister of Education in October to recommend such an action program, if it fails to succeed at the remaining election time. These plans were emphasized in cooperation with all those involved, but I especially want to remind young people of the counsel. I think it's very important, when the induction plans are started, that they be brought along by young advice at work. They are too often forgotten when we are dealing with them. Of course, this needs to be followed closely, and in the opinion of the committee, we point out that there is also a need to consider the work that has been done so far. There are a lot of data, reports, and so forth, which can be used and thus speeded up instead of starting over again or something else. We are hereby working together on the development of teachers and school directors. It's, for example. A report on study and employment advice and many other outcomes, on the role of cohesion tests, because they have been very much involved in the discussion, on education of children and young people with diverse language and culture background and, as mentioned earlier, on recent training in the classroom. So there are some things we can use at work ahead of us and speed it up. It's the right thing to come up with the criticism that this education policy is supposed to include all over the education system, from the nursery to the ever-real education system, and that part just got a little out of the way. We offer here to take into account the development of the strategy. When we were discussing this, we were also discussing that there would have to be a clear work programme and policy, priorities, and all of that, whatever responsibilities and activities needed to be carried out at any given time, and the implementation of the measures under each circumstances, i.e. that it is clear who is responsible for the priorities of the projects that will be put in place at any given time and who should follow up on them outside the General Assembly. I spoke of the need to consult with everyone earlier, and it says here that it applies not only to the students in school but also to contact the youth council. They often reach out to more diverse groups, and I think that can be a plan. Of course, now much and often have been discussed with those with disability, and that I have taken up in a body hall myself. What a great work that is yet to be done! There has really been one way to study at the university, especially after students finish high school, and it's only in HI. It is certainly not acceptable that students from all over the country really have to take up and go there, and they can't, because of their disability or otherwise. It's important that we look outside the box, I don't talk about, in view of the experience we've gained in the code by telecommunications and so forth, that students who are disabled can enjoy it just with home or home school support. That's where we've got a shot. Of course, all students, especially those who are worse at the system, need to be kept tight in mind as students of a foreign background. I mention again in the country, that all the students can find a proper study wherever they live and where they come from. The knowledge of the technology we have acquired here is of utmost importance. Then there is the support we would like to talk about when it comes to school, and at the council, it is the matter of social and child - care ministers, which are being integrated in the ministry of children. It highlights early support, interfaith in service, and cooperation across language groups. This is very important when we think about providing Bible students, anywhere in the country, to support us. I don't think it was necessary to be overly expensive or complicated. The teachers'class know this very well, as well as those professionals who have come to such support within the school system. I agree with it when it comes to promoting special milestones when it comes to equality, gender, and its effects, as well as such instruction for teachers, so that they can provide it. Thus, students become aware of their positions and attitudes when looking to gender rights, both in the workplace and at the same time as in the study. We have discussed many years, decades likely, a variety of studies, i.e. that not only book study but work, occupation, and art should be available to students. If anyone now had the answer, why hasn't he done better yet because it's not just about money but about attitudes? It even turns to the parents'attitude, which encourages their children to finish the student's test so that they have some future possibilities. It is recognized that this is one of the major factors in choosing students to study, and this may be part of the fact that boys, because they have been mentioned, do not necessarily feel within the study system. I agree with a pilot, I think it's a song to change now. There's been a lot of emphasis on this lately, and they have been trying to push it a little healthy, and I hope it will work. I feel that society has a different attitude but it has often been, that you feel it more in conversation with people. I really hope that there is something that we soon see results and that students, boys and girls and all sex, get more out of a variety of studies and break out of this sensory education and choice of work. It is so important that many come and help break the glass roof. It's a bit dramatic when you get a review from psychologists who tell us that the tests for education are out of date, they're just ruined and can't be used, that there's no responsibility for their presence and how much they're supposed to meet the criteria they should be. In this committee's program, we invite a minister to reroute it and correct it no later, so that the good instruments would be used to assist the students in need, and schools will help teachers and staff to assist them in the best possible way. When discussing teaching and working in school, we need to consider that it is good. We hear too much coldness in the teachers' class that tells us something isn't exactly what it's supposed to be. We have, for example. did not reach the criteria we intended for when it comes to nursery teachers. There are too many unskilled people, who are clean and all of them, but we have set the goal of increasing the number of educated people. It hasn't worked. We need to get our hands on the work environment. We need to get our hands on the remuneration show. This needs to be a well paid job, so people will last for it and enjoy going to work, and I'll say again, not only women, but also men and all the sexes that want to work there. There was a view that certain aspects of teaching need to be improved, not just from different teaching methods, which, yes, are certainly there and are in the teacher's study, but from the sexual education and security instruction in digital society, all kinds of locks, financial locks, and what else it is, and to teach about the diversity of society so that teachers are better equipped to communicate it to their students. It has been observed that not all feel that they are in a position to do so, so that it is a good idea, and it has been discussed that they are not well considered in the study. We also discuss in the panel about other professionals in the education system than teachers, and this is usually related to the discussion of the resources that students and children need in the school system so that they will have the best they can do and be helped to improve in learning. Its variety is very important. A student who worked in a school outside of the teacher and general supportive staff was a professional therapist, coach, psychologist, and professional therapist, so I personally know what such a cross-cutting cooperation really means, and I follow students in a much better way. They're doing much better, it's just that simple. One of the things we need to do, as mentioned here, in order to stand up to the neighboring countries is exactly what I've been going through. When we talk about skills and knowledge development, so to speak, staff within the teacher community, we're not just talking about teachers and school directors, but, uh... The professions I've listed. So I would especially like to prescribe students and professional counselors because they have a role in school, this is a legal term, and have a legal term, e.g. Being in every elementary school. Regarding the ability for the future, and you can talk a lot about it when you know the sector well, you only go to the reading program and what it belongs to. I have been a spokesman that we focus, not just on reading speed, but on reading ability. It is of utmost importance to be able to read, and in my opinion, the first thing we should do when we are teaching our children to talk to them about what they are reading to see if they understand the words and their context. That, in my opinion, shows the ability to read for the benefit of yourself. Of course, we've had a national contract to read and deal with it, and this is one of the things we think we should look to when we're going to the extension. As we have read and listed, there are all kinds of locks, and apart from what is stated in the Committee's opinion, technology, information lock, nature lock, and all of this, it is important to be able to evaluate e.g. The digital information you seek. You see, when students began taking home tests in Covid, they came up with questions about whether they could cheat and so on. I don't really consider it cheating because it's mainly the ability to identify information that you find online because it's not all true. That's one of the important things. I would also like to agree that the libraries are an important part of having a good time reading and enjoying social gatherings, school groups, and so forth. It teaches students how to make use of the museums and to increase their interest in reading. Regarding back-up, industrial and technical studies, we heard from high school students at a meeting of the General and Education Committee, and it says in their reviews about another subject we're considering, that it's too late to start teaching students about what's ahead, which may be part of the fact that students are late to make their decision and ratio rather in accounting because the rest are going there, and there's some shepherding activity going on. I want to reiterate, because I only know what I've said here a few times, that students and workers especially have the role in basic schools to teach students about choice and choice of jobs and things like that. I just urge all those who make this happen to keep it steady, both in high school and in high school, what's ahead, what it means to do something for them and what it takes for you to go to such or queer college school, that it's done rather early than late. Here we come only to, a respectable president, that maps need education and skill when we are looking at the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. Although I'm on the line that we're supposed to learn what we want, not necessarily what society calls after, a very important conversation is to take place between students, parents, teachers, and staff counselors as to what lies ahead. At the end of the hearing, a respectable president, there is only talk of study articles and study projects. One of the things we need to keep in mind is that it is not to reinvigorate a portion of study material but to increase the production of a wide variety of media, not only of the book but also of the digital form. We also need to combine and integrate a little. It is being published beyond just those of the government's study tools, e.g. is published in general books that are new to study. The money is to be used well and to have conversation and cooperation with such parties. A respectable president. Now it's almost time. Finally, I'd like to say that it was forgotten by our policy that Icelandic Sign Language is just as correct as communicative in human relations. It's very painful, but we correct it in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u119	A respectable president. When I asked to give an answer, there was a why. A senator did not yet talk about reading, which is what I wanted to have a place to say. A senator, of whom I deeply thank you for the speech. We discussed this at a meeting of the Committee, and we agreeed that there were a lot more to go on. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in view of her experience as a teacher and experience in school activities, how she values a national contract of read that has come to be of no experience. The campaign began in the fall of 2015, and it is not apparent that the government has been effective in its efforts. At least it's looking at me not us, for all research tells us that the time of this massive and costly national campaign has gone down dramatically. Could it be that there is a fundamental lack of understanding of how to teach and that emphasis is usually wrong?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It may first be saying that I am not sure that the campaign has failed. Despite our situation, they may have benefited someone. Of course, there are many ways to teach children to read, and that may be one of the things we need to look to. There are certain methods used within school, sound method, or what it is, and I'm not sure that we should make one use. We're here talking about meeting children and students where each person is, and I think we should look first to use different ways to teach children how to read. And then, as I told you earlier, I think it's really important that when children start running, help them understand the context of the words by talking to them about what they were reading. At any rate, I have found that to be the best result, and I have used it with the ones I have taught to read, both my own children and my grandson. I have found that, of course, our students or our children are in a completely different reality than we were, so we may need to try to find different ways. Of course, I also know dyslexic children who welcomed the computer because they could, for example, enjoy it. put a colored card over and read better, and suddenly they saw letters that had slipped together before, etc. We need all tools and tools to help children become readers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for that answer was good. You see, I don't think it's easy for the generals to make some rules about how to read. We cannot accept the law that a certain method of reading should apply rather than that of others. I think there's a time when the general or counsel may be involved. Rather, it's just like that. A senator took the key here to meet each person on his own, to meet each child on his own terms, and then to focus on the teaching of each child's traits and the relationship that you have with the child. It may be a strange question, based on my life's work, on books and books, but may we still focus too much on this particular skill in children, that we sentence children too early from a game that does not master these speculative skills but has some other skills? We may let them be struggling to learn to read and thus concentrate on their best learning years of weakness rather than on building up their strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u122	A respectable president. This may be the main point: We must not judge children and students too early or rather than let them pass away so that they are doomed. It is that feeling that we are talking about so many times, both boys and girls in this regard. Of course, exciting material - information that they love to work at - needs to be placed first. There are so many ways to do so. I think as soon as the interest comes from what they're doing, whatever it is, your skills can be enhanced. Like what? A senator mentioned them as building, and they can be discussed with them a word related to it, and they can be brought up by an increase in vocabulary and the context of the parts, where they are strong. That is primarily what we must do. Of course, it doesn't take me or any other members of Congress to say that the system has not been there and that it has not been able to do so. As mentioned in my talk, it may be too often that we do not control and that is even the case. Because students are not calm enough, there's a lot of harassment everywhere and all around. As teachers, we need to find ways to meet them in all the harassment that comes on them every day, and there are all kinds of demands they feel they are facing. Ever since they're small in high school, they have a wide range of challenges that can't reach themselves. There are many good ways, and I know a great many of the school's employees and teachers who are doing very good things to help them find a measure of calmness, so that they can concentrate on learning to read, and that, of course, is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u123	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. That's a reason to welcome the academicism of 2020 and agents2030. I was gonna come up here and talk to you. A senator has something to do with public health. In the water from the highest. Health Minister is a public health policy. Now I make it clear that school and education environment are so diverse, and the grades of many courses are crucial to the formative of each person's life, and it is certainly impossible to put on educational policy that is a complete list of everything. But in this fine educational program, we provide a specific vision and our primary objective. In the three-way induction program, we are expected to see the target and cost of action. In this public health policy that I've read, and was in consultation, it emphasises that it is written into all other paths. Here are some things that are about to read, and public health policies speak of health benefits to strengthen and support the individual in taking responsibility for his own health and for the prophylaxis. In the chapter D.1, health issues and D.6, however, there is no mention of human health and support for the individual to that extent. [[The president calls.]] Nor do public health officials say that there is no health lock. I'm going to come to a later answer to questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this charge of public health. I can honestly say that it may be one of the things we forget sometimes, whether we're creating policies or something else, that this is a conversation. It is said that teachers, students, and other professionals work together, to produce better results, and, of course, to communicate. This may have been an approach to a minister's health, mental well - being, prevention, and well - being. In fact, although the word "ethnicism " does not happen to them, what I listed is truly part of human health. As the senator mentioned, this is not a complete policy. But I can agree that all that is increasing in health during the formative years of education, from high school to high school, especially at the high school, where there is a high school level, is important, and in school's main course, there's a considerable emphasis on public health. But there is always a better way to do so. I'm sure this is one of those things that the Minister of the jury, who is supposed to do a strategy, can choose to do so and make this even better than that. A senator thinks it's a good idea to do in the D team.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u125	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. This should only be a indication that when we're working with policies and commands that we're going to make policies talk and work across the Ministry, and people's health and education are very clear examples of the need to do so, then we can improve things. Certainly, things are turning to public health and locks are one of the factors. But people's health, as defined by the World Health Organization, turns toward spiritual, social, and physical well - being. Then it is what public health policies preach, which is promoting health benefits, which are also of utmost importance. We need to understand terms in different fields and can accept, as is said in public health, responsibility for our own health, and knowledge and support. I wondered how such a conversation takes place between recruitment when working with a policy-making subject. There are many benefits in our environment. We're working more with direction. I mention laws on public finance as an example, that is a policy environment that we create there, and in a number of other areas like this, when we are talking about education. But I think we need to improve when we're working together, really working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u126	Mr. President. I agree with it. One senator says, it is very important that we see more real success when they are being developed into communication with one another. There should be some sort of coordination in the scheme, i.e. in the Board of Directors, which you would have thought should be kept in mind. As mentioned above, all these policies go into consultations, so they should be able to make comments on this, both within the board of directors and before the cases go there, etc. But this is somehow the case, so each minister has his own, and that may be part of the fact that it is not under anyone or something. However, those comments can certainly be made when the matter is addressed before entering the council to put a little more thought into the matter. We have agreed here some policies which I consider very important, health policy, equal policy, so I'll mention an example, and of course these policies have a somewhat cross-cutting approach into everything we're doing. Although we can say that health is the physical, mental - health benefits are spiritual, and prevention is part of the health or well - being of everyone, I agree that health benefits may be one of the things we need to stress in the daily teaching environment. A health lock is not just about to move or something; it has so many other challenges. But it is often associated with something like that. I agree with the main criticism, which I heard hadn't. A senator is serving here, focusing on policy taking into account all other policies between recruitment practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u127	Mr. President. This was mentioned in the previous discussion on the subject in one outstanding situation. A senator says that the education program we are discussing here is based on the basis of a group of work assigned to the forward party in 2016. As you read a policy like that, you might be more aware of this because in itself I would have held the highest. A minister of education would have more ambition than a reference to politics and would create education 10 years ago. What might be spoken of as an example of the extent of the holes in the direction it is presented is this opinion, which is very high in interest and likely more pages than such. And then I commend this committee party, which I'm not involved in, there would have been a number of things that are better involved in the course itself. What is missing, e.g. So much for this policy is goals, there are no goals, not even goals like that. It doesn't say anything here: Where are we going to be in 2030? There's nothing about it. The person standing here will make that confession here and now that he had in mind making adjustments to this course, but he saw his immortality because if there had been a change of motion, you would have had to write this policy more and less, and for that, it simply isn't time. What you can do about this is point out the most desperate course in the hope that when work continues, it will continue to be built on the outside, etc. There is one very interesting thing about this academic policy. There is no mention of the mere statement that there is an independent, functioning school, their role, in the way they can cooperate with the activities of the public educational system. I'll just mention an example that's naturally obvious, Holla Policy, Verso, HR. This policy is ignored by institutions or devices such as this one. I feel really bad because if we're going to make a complete picture of the education system, we'd have to have it there and some line on how people envision the role of these independent institutions or associates in the education of the nation. And in itself it can be said that this does not include the mention of a process of self - education that exists, Mimir and others. There's no mention of that. There is no mention of their role, what it should be, etc. It's one thing. It is true that there were many reports of this course and many of the visitors. There's a lot of talk in the committee's opinion that a great deal of money has been coming up with these guests, etc., which is exactly right, but it doesn't really find its way in here. The most painful thing you may miss is that the education system in Iceland today is not suitable for boys. Not a word of it is mentioned. It's whether or not you're going to try to frame it in the ten years below. Mr. President. We're always talking about it at a council, and it's in itself annoying, that it's a total panic that especially boys come out of high school without read. Everyone agrees it's terrible and terrible. But we're not doing anything about it, not anything. Now I'm not an expert in this field, so in itself I'm not quite sure how to deal with this problem. But still, I have not seen any suggestions, specific efforts, or anything like that in an effort to correct this course. At one time, I think it was 1970 if my memory didn't fail me, Fifty percent of students and girls. It's 30/70 now, if I remember correctly, and high school students are 70% girls or women, while 30% are men. I think, Mr. President, just this percentage should show us that we need to make some arrangements. I think we're going to have to start talking in a few years about equality with reverse prowess because it's quite clear that it's going to be the same thing or this development will continue, that's gonna create a problem. We're good to go. There's actually one thing that's not in this academic policy either. There's been a lot of discussion about the need to promote industry and technology, and that's true. It must be done. I would have thought that in a policy like this, there should be some guidance on how education and employment can come together in a way that aims to further capture those who fall out of school because book studies are not suitable for them. Usually or very often, it is boys, unfortunately. There are no attempts in this direction. It's, for example. alone now going east into the Far East, and there is a cooperation between the plant at the Cradle and the East Educational School at Nessús. It is to learn that from the High School of Education at Ness buyr will come excellent students, highly educated industrialists. And I'm told by the people who work in this sector and live and stir in it, that in the same way the learning school of the Sheep is one of them, i.e. West High School of the Northlands to graduate quite excellent students. Now I'm not taking these two schools out to belittle some other school, no matter what. What I'm simply saying is that if we have such sceptres or articles as exemplary, we should try to transfer them to the rest of our experiences as we can to make this essential teaching as effective as possible and as effective as possible. We may then find that before the committee, a group of students, very well - spoken and logical children, basically told us about their sins, and they did not need to do so. They asked: "Why don't we learn financiallocks? Why do we not learn how to complete a job application? Why do we get a job presentation in the last three weeks of our last school year? It's all very good questions, and you ask yourself, " Why? It was an experiment or campaign at the time, I don't know if this experiment is still going on, at one basic school in Reykjavík that cooperated with Hellish activation, and with basic schoolchildren, they were invited to see the workplace, they were allowed to see the job position, and they were given a salary note. And the last time I knew that this team had come out, 14 girls began learning electrical activation because they were striving to bring both sexes along with the results as well. We may need to do more in both directions. We may need to have a job presentation for boys who are going to book school on how attractive it is to be a teacher, that is very possible, or how attractive it is to be a nursery teacher and to work with children. Maybe we need to do this, I don't know. But one thing is certain that we need to make a decision in this matter. The policy set here as a guide, but without making decisions, without setting goals. It was shown in the case of an official earlier that this policy was a big blow to work. This may be true, but I ask: Why, then, did not much work have been put on the course immediately, more work than has apparently been put into it? In itself, it does not hurt what is said here, but it is like a political decree; it should be sought and sought, and so to speak. But there is no serious policy on where we are going to be at one of our given times and how we are going to get there. That's why I mentioned earlier the independent schools. That is why I mentioned earlier the cooperation of schools or education systems and occupations. A few years ago, I got into a company that runs the biggest slide shop in Iceland and, Mr. President, for those who don't know, the answer isn't really there, but when you know it, it's totally obvious. The largest slide plant in Iceland is at the Insari, the shorthand producer. I asked a fine woman there that I met at that time how many of them had but a sliding job. She didn't tell anybody. I said, "Why?" Because no one has asked us to, she said. We're here with a company, talking about cooperation between the education industry and the working world, top companies just in this area, Assur, Marel. I met two years ago the director of a major electronic company. He has many unskilled people who do well on their own. He said, "I wanted to educate these people. " I would've wanted my company to be a champion for these people. According to current law, it can't be done. So I say once more, "There are possibilities like this all over the world." I've done it a few times to meet a very good trader in Hafnarfjörður, who has run his business profitfully, that I think, minus one year, for 50 years and has a very good carpenter and ship repair. He's said it to me several times that he's missing one in particular. Now we don't have an Icelander who's probably 30 years old and not a lot of smiths, but this fine man who has all this experience told me: What needs to be done is instilling in people who go to this study proud of what they have chosen. And I'm gonna say one more thing. A few years ago, I met the head of education at the National Institute of Business and we were discussing it, it's Thai, we were discussing it five, six years ago that same problem, that especially boys fell out of school, they wouldn't be getting back into trade school until late, and eventually, etc., if they did. I said to these fine people, "Why don't you show young people, young girls, how much money a trader earns on his career? Since then, it has been discovered, and it may have been known, I don't know, that industry's biography is on average or generally higher than a university student. With this, I'm not recommending that we pursue a university education specifically, since it occurred at the time of my former life when I worked on it from the end of the day. The European Union in Iceland has entered the European Union, but then it stopped at about five o'clock, when this was the turning point of a mission from the European Union. And what was she most worried about in Iceland? The level of education. It was all a big surprise, the education level in Iceland. That was about eight years ago. They said, "Yes, it's simple." Icelanders graduate fewer doctors, fewer macorticoids and fewer with BA degrees than many neighboring countries. I remember that at that time, people drew the image that Iceland was at this point in the same place as Portugal and Greece, with great respect for both nations. But I believe that in our goals, we will not necessarily follow in their footsteps but may be more involved with what happens here. What I wanted to say is this: this policy, this document right here, is kind of like a non-important cornea. It's such a dictionary that alone doesn't do anything. I'm looking forward to a plan that's going to be on within six months. I hope there's ever a time when you can see and show, and let it be known where they're going to be, where the Icelandic education system should be, and what's in ten years' time. What's the finish line? What is the goal? I have to say one last thing, Mr President, because time flies here. In high school, I would have thought that there was good reason for special study disability, e.g. dyslexia. I would have thought perfectly desirable that such a thing would be addressed and a plan to help the children with learning problems, whether they are dyslexia, autism, ADHD, etc. It's done here in one sentence or something, but I would have liked to see more meat on this bone. As I said earlier, I was not following this committee party and I feel that this policy is the way it is here more than content.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u128	President. I've got this committee party coming up from the General and Education Committee because I'm very into promoting policy and policy development for the future. I believe it alone is a step in the right direction, and I hope that this will lead to a total of those working in the education system and working on the education system so that they all will be there. I just wanted to mention, before I go into my own speech, what the Þorsteinn was talking about here, i.e. looking at people who are learningable and who have an analysis. It is also possible to take the other branch, which is that society may just have to adapt itself to persons by diagnosis, that it is not always being taken outside the average group. I'm on the committee opinion in advance. When I started reading policy, my first foundation was just the same as the opportunity for everyone. I'm sorry that there's no intention of using sexual expressions in policy, especially because, a few months ago, there were approved laws on sexual autonomy. In 1st. says, with permission of the president: ▪ This law applies to the right of individuals to define their gender and thus aims to ensure that their sexual senses are accepted. In recognition of a person's sense of sex, it is a practice to use sexless speech and, among other things, use the so - called hygienic words that have appeared on the scene in the past few years and meet the requirements for grammar and other crafts that are expected to fulfill Icelandic words. Thus, this field of education, which is to be a basis for advanced education in Iceland for the next decade, should be based on equal opportunities for all genders and should reflect the reality of students who define themselves outside the traditional ambiguity of biomimetics. It must be part of promoting educational systems that ensure access to everyone. This must mean that respect is given for the physical immunity of students, gender characteristics, gender, and gender. With the permission of the president, I'm going to quote the fistula of Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, a professor of Icelandic grammar, that appeared on his Web site on August 16, 2020. There he says: ▪ Although those words are raised by people my age, most of us have come to realize that they are no longer appropriate and that they are used by them. It's normal - and not so difficult. The matter, however, becomes more complex when it comes to swallowing a language - both the use of a male as an abstractity, as well as the use of a man and a combination of the word to both (or all) genders. I know that many women and sex - mad people feel that such language is impossible, that it cannot be referred to. We need to take that feeling seriously and not immediately dismiss it. If the use of language as everyone needs to go to screening, or is it ordered to have a contour to a mixed group, can't you just change it? It is possible to say that everyone needs to be screened (as was recently done in the media) and that people are ordered to go to an environment. In recent years, the '78 organization has had a so - called colony competition, looking for what is called hierarchies to get an Icelandic translation of certain queer terms and words. The website from A to A has also included a variety of concepts involving gay studies, culture, self - image, and politics. Therefore, the Senate and the Ministry no longer have any ignorance or memory when it comes to adopting a variety of sexual expressions. We do not all define ourselves as men, and we do not all define ourselves in advance to a certain book of the heronorthian community, which we are raised by many. Thus, it is possible to search many places to ensure sexual indiscriminate use. I would most much like to direct this to all recruitment programs, committees and Ministers who are working a text approved at the General Assembly. However, I find it especially important to point out this point in academic policy, where we need to be careful about allowing children and young people to talk out of their own reality, based on their own self - image. Once again, I reiterate that we are not all straight - and - as - usual, and policies and plans for the education system must reflect it. By permission of the president, I'll be able to quote here only in text that I ran into the city page in Reykjavík: Achieving that all are homosexual and communicative and that this is normal is in order. This is because it is believed that homosexuality is natural and that it is superior to other sexual tendencies. Also, there are popular ideas about gender, sexual organs, that there are only two sexes (males and women), and that real women follow the accepted concept of femaleism and real men after the accepted ideas of man and sex express their gender in a typical way. At the same time, a question mark is applied to those who experience and express their gender in a different way. Minor stress is something gay people experience and adversely affect their physical and mental health. Minor stress is the result of being able anywhere and at any time to become prejudice, silence, discrimination, and negative speech, and even violence because of its gayness. This is something that comes with the community we live in, i.e. Non-general always criteria. In other words, queer people never know what kind of reaction they can expect because of their gayness. This may lead to distrust and insecurity in some queer people, regardless of their individual rights. As we have seen, during the discussion on this academic policy, children and young people who make good use of the education system feel very anxious and uncomfortable. Feeling unwell may include It has developed from the feeling that you do not belong in the environment of most of your life. So to provide an education system for all of us without discrimination should be a priority, and one step in that direction is to make sure to use wording that covers all of us. Finally, I'll be able to quote the second fistula of Eiríkur Rögnvaldsson, Professor emeritus: ▪ These words seem strange and even foolish to many. That is normal - new words usually act strangely on us. They need getting used to, and it takes time. Many words that we use thoughtlessly and thoughtlessly each day were strange when they first appeared. In the last century, Professor Halldor Halldór Halldórsson said that a new word would have to be used 60 times to get used to it. Try it!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u129	A respectable president. It's a pretty wide education program, and there's a lot under there. Five primary goals are set. Plans are also being made to make the best of their goals: large opportunities for all, top - order teaching, quality of the future, well - being, foreground quality. It's fine, it's very good, but nothing in general. Skills, well - being, well - being, equal opportunities, first order - these are good, beautiful words, and full of good intentions; yet, we are in this system daily coping with feelings of distress, uneven opportunities, varying quality, and so forth, as long as this school system becomes a people. But it is good to set goals that are noble and sound even if they become a little like the principles he set for Þórbergur, the son of Þórðarson, that he set himself every day and broke as hard as then wrote them up in the morning. It is to make good intentions, but it would certainly be more convincing if the financial program that we are going to discuss in the following days was to include a growing number of students in the school system during the year 2022, as it was this year. However, in this financial program an increase in unemployment is expected. We know that the school system plays a key role in unemployment, and apart from it, the school system plays a key role in the Covid situation in which teachers and other classes working in school have been in the lead role and have done an invaluable job and school being, happily, a sanctuary for the children. School is our children's workplace, the place where we live, the place where they work all day long from early in the morning until after the day, the place where their lives and lives are, and the idea that some children are uncomfortable in that place. It is worth talking about what is well done. The number of teachers has increased as a result of targeted measures, initiatives important to continue and to remain because, as stated in Iceland's Teacher Association on this education policy, one third of teachers will disappear from jobs during the first few years of teaching, i.e. Several deaths will occur in the profession. By permission of the President, I continue to say in this review of the Teacher Union: During the next few years, large groups of teachers are retired, and newborns do not fit in with the needs of the school society. The situation now is that only 905 partners of KI are less than 30 years old or 8%, and looking to partners in KÍ, 30,035 years old, they are only 1,102 or 10%. It should be noted that in these numbers there are instructors in play, basic and high school. It is clear, therefore, that there is a great and defined need for action. This, says one reference work, is a good reason to agree with the teacher's relationship. There is also good reason to look to the discrepancy that has been taking place recently in the teachers'class. The level of school needs to be greatly strengthened, and this is far from reaching standards that are supposed to be about two thirds of those serving in play schools who are trained as teachers. It is far from a set of standards, and I do not want to cast shame on the work of the good people who are working at school and who have very much experience and knowledge and skills in their profession and who have served for a long time in preschools without obtaining formal teaching skills. Nevertheless, the training of teachers provides the necessary basis for this work if it is to be done well. I just want to mention a music school that sometimes wants to be forgotten because they play a very important role in youth development. We often talk about the value of hobbies and sports activities, and most of all, let me reduce the value of prevention that we already know. At times, though, it is forgotten that music also has a tremendous preemptive value. Musical study develops specific qualities in children that enable young people to succeed in other areas as well. It is known that music studies develop the brain and brain functions except that children who practice musical and music study are less likely to be led into disorder. The same applies to art studies. There I feel that I have a considerable amount of work to do. As for the study of music, it may be that the principal music course has not been revised for 20 years, and music school law has since 1985. There is a full need to revise both. And in this regard, I would like to remind you that Icelandic musicians have worn the wealth of land and nation in many lands and may be the most proud Icelanders we are at the moment. Art studies, all kinds of art and creative articles, I feel that there is a greater need to be a fuller part of school education than there is right now. They need to be better informed about their status from high school and high school. Then there is an art program that should play a key role in all school activities, and the emphasis on art needs to be much more than it is now. Some have taken up this work and technical discussion, and I agree with most of the things that have happened in the past. Councilmen. I think, as with art, it needs to be added together and to work together better. It is unfortunate that students will be reminded of some kind of resistance between book study and training, on the other hand, at work. I think there needs to be a much more link between employment and school life and that the workplace should be able to receive students much more than it is now, and there should be no barrier between those who want to study at work and then back school studies. It's supposed to be interconnected and cooperative. Many words can be said about reading. As I mentioned earlier, in return to what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, it is not appropriate for the general body members to be in the field of learning in the country. However, here I would like to say that it seems to me that a national agreement on locks has become a bit counterargument, more like a national agreement on illiteracy, almost as if it were an effort to increase the illiteracy among children and young people in the country. Mr. President. The school system, as we know it, may still be, without fully realizing it, originally designed to create officials and officials, lawyers, priests, and philosophers. Such classes, such people gained authority over a certain vocabulary, a specific debate of power, and then were able to use this wording effectively. In some sense, the system is still built around this core, i.e. to gain a basic knowledge and then to build on this knowledge and to use it in language that gives evidence of the authority of the individual in this knowledge. Nevertheless - and this is what I want to put in context with what I said earlier on art and creative articles - we young ones and young people do very little to use the language in a living and productive way and in a pleasant way, e.g. by making and bullshitting and playing the case with study. We'll have our children approach Icelandic as if she's foreign, i.e. Here is a language that they really don't know and will never fully learn. It's a very difficult language, filled with very difficult grammars and exceptions and rules, and although these children may know the language when they arrive at school, we pretend that it is just a collection of difficult rules that they will never be able to handle. It's not a device to create and play with. But we do know, Mr. President, that in the past few years society has not necessarily been built by officials like this with old songs, priests, or lawyers or philosophers, although such people do well. Such knowledge and such education have not necessarily been a requirement for a student's study, or generally a few tests, or so a lot of schooling, to make a success of life. And I come here to men who have not been given much for the book, as it is called, some of them. They have been able to obtain education, knowledge of all kinds of employment. They have been able to hang out there, often in similar fields and games of children around them. However, there are indications, unfortunately, that the ways these men have had in the past and through the decades are becoming tight, even closing. With this open labour market, unschooled men who are not specialized in certain fields will need to compete with specialized workers from other countries who can do just as well if not better. Mr. President. I'm not going to give extra consideration to the five main goals I mentioned at the outset of my speech or to go to the stitches on the particular purpose of reaching that goal. They are very general; in the front row, equal opportunities, abilities, well-being, quality. These are goals that make it difficult to go to the stitches on exactly how we can get them out. I'd like to mention one thing at the end that I thought was a little striking. I made it a joke that I entered, when I had high school policy on the screen, the word game, looking for a game. You remember the good song: It's a game to learn, a game I love, to know more and more, today more than yesterday, and so on. You see, I think playing should be like a red thread through our education policy, that should be the password. Learning is supposed to be a game to learn, and learning is a game alone. When children play, they're learning, just as young people do. I think there's a lot of good work to be done, so they say, in the school system, and I think we have a lot of creative and good, smart teachers who give up. But I think there's too much about children finding it even early that they don't meet any of the school programs, and I don't think that the transfer from high school should be so sharp. The children should never notice that they have stopped playing. They shouldn't have stopped playing. There's supposed to be a game to learn and learning to be a game.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u130	Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator, not just because I think the lyrics of the proposal are poetic, he's so bent that every action is almost like a hiccup, but because he talked a lot about reading and reading. It's supposed to be a game to learn, but it's also supposed to be a game to read. The Committee reviews the importance of librarys, especially librarys, because something needs children to read if they are to achieve all their qualifications. But collections of books will not be available in nothing. Then I can think of a report of a team of students who were won for the city of Reykjavík for a decade ago that covered these same matters; boys' reading problems; a girl's experience in the school system; and all of this. Even there was a number of them. proposals to cooperate with bookmakers, Reykjavík, and the research agency to promote, not increased editions of study books, but just books for young people. I'm asking if it's not part of the problem we're facing. A stream does not spring from empty soil. magazines from museums that are bursting out of new and exciting books, translated and originalized, ambitious editions available to their children. [[The president calls.]] Do we not need to examine this aspect, and was it discussed on the committee rather than simply referring to the libraries? [[The president calls.]] Don't we have to talk about what's in museums?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Here, he has a very important and complete point of view on the experiences of children of books and on the fact that books are a natural part of the daily life of children at the schools and at the homes of children. Sadly, for years the libraries have been successful. In textbooks and libraries, there has been not enough money to buy what has come out of exciting books. I know that the textbooks that are many and powerful in this country have been determined to publish exciting books for children, for all genders, books that appeal to children and children should be able to enjoy on their own terms. But it's not good enough that children get the message that books are dusty in a corner that nobody cares about. It needs to be new food, and new books need to be available all the time. [[The president calls.]] I think the textbook should be able to see to it that it can be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u132	Mr. President. Now we're what? A senator of about the same age in this job, not with a very long political experience, compared with some people. On the other hand, we live in the experience of having wintered 2018/2019 agreed to a synonym to promote Icelandic as official language in Iceland. It said, with permission from the president: ▪ The practicality of librarys and public libraries will be improved and given to students and the public. Emphasis will be placed on the access to new and varied material in Icelandic languages. We are, in effect, saying the same thing in the form of a suggestion here two years later. I wondered: " What has happened in the meantime? The fate is the manufacturers of the material to fill the libraries. The libraries need money to buy books. The writers need support to make or translate them, and they really need to spit on their hands. I'm worried we're doing the same thing. We're always talking about locks and the need to develop libraries, and then nothing happens year after year. The same could be said of other legalities that we are discussing with regard to education. I don't think that education was mentioned in this hall in the last decade without pointing out the need to promote equality education at all schools, which is still a fundamental part of education in the main school course and has been for decades. [[The president calls.]] Somehow, there's never enough. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps the question would be, Was there anything that happened to the Commission regarding the implementation of a policy for the institutions of our textbooks? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u133	A respectable president. The committee showed that there was a need and a need. We only read in one way: With reading. Children learn to read by reading and by practicing daily reading, a specific time a day. Once children have learned to read, they are extremely productive. They absorb books at an alarming rate when they are invited to watch. This needs to be met by making sure that there is an endless selection of books. I know that Icelandic writers can produce books in long trousers, and I know that their posts can produce books in a way that makes them attractive. What is missing here is opening up schools for this. We are still trapped in an arrangement instituted by Jónas frá Hrifla. Yet, he had the advantage over the secular authorities that he himself could write life - giving and interesting textbooks that had a powerful impact on people. We need to open the way between the manufacturers of the reading material and the recipients of the children's reading material.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u134	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing of academicism over the years 2020-2030. There's a lot of things to say about this course, but I think the core may have passed by. Harðardóttir A G. of Abraham who has had a lot of experience with this group, she reminded us that there is little new in the words that appeared on the magazines we have here in front of us. To a large extent, this is a general policy, a popular vocabulary, a familiar theme, and everything to be a persistent theme that has been repeated for years. I may miss the big educational objective of this policy. You see, our education system is one of the most powerful motor forces in our community. It's through the education system that we create for the future. We use our education system to answer the question, What kind of person do we want to have in 30 years? It is the education system that directs how our community is building together, how a person is likely to be an active part of modern society, and how we are living and all of us have a happy future. These are questions that hopefully, even though they are not asked, will be answered. Part of what the answer consists of are basic aspects of education. These are the basic components displayed in the main course. These are factors that deal with laws about the different levels of school and that have been a red thread in the educational system in recent years and even decades. I'd like to mention some of these basics. First, I'd like to mention the equality factor, which has been one of the basic factors, according to the primary 2011 course, which I think we've stopped talking about as the main course, even though it's possible that it's only recently stopped, but it's been in the law even longer. The 2008 equality Act says, with permission of the President: At any school, students will be instructed on equality, which includes: It should be emphasised on preparing both countries for equal participation in society, such as family and employment. This text was then published in revised equality laws that we agreed on here earlier in the winter. In view of the fact that this has been a law letter and a basic component for decades, depending on whether you look at it, it's almost easy to read in a committee list, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Internet also considers it important to take up and promote special stages of equality, such as gender, that could do much to bring future generations into consideration their status and attitudes when it comes to sex rights in education and at work markets. This is almost consistent with the 2008 law of equality. But why has this not been carried out in such a way that we don't have to set this up every time we agree here at the council any educational policies? Clearly, just posting letters does not work and expects the system to accept and implement them because the education system does not automatically function as motor power. That is what needs to be supported. Equality has not been achieved in the educational system, which is governed by law and primary education, because of its lack of money. They have lacked emphasis on teaching. It has lacked the opportunity for a teacher to reexamine so as to become better teachers in equality. This has been repeatedly pointed out by teachers, of students, of a variety of people from the school community who see that this fundamental factor is not fully fulfilled. Hence, the level of education is actually less important than the strategy it will follow and the financial resources it will be put into place to implement it. It is where the very essence of policy will appear. In view of the fact that the school community is made up of numerous groups, it is very important to agree on the implementation of the programme, or on the implementation plan as it is called in the motion, to be wide and open. I'd like to mention another basic aspect of education and how it appeared to us. It is the fundamental factor of democracy and human rights. This is an aspect that goes beyond just into the classrooms because teaching people democracy happens not only in class but in the community that is created at school. As a result, students get something to say about how the school is being expelled, how the organization is organized, talking to students about how this school community develops. Like equality, we have received tips, especially from young people, students, or newly educated people, that these basic factors are seriously deficient in our school systems. This is especially helpful when we discuss a decline in election age, where the managers point out that school is advising students with the tools they would best have to become strong participants in the democracies community. This is also reflected in the need for a self - burning grass - based group, such as our education system, to communicate with the council rather than to be specifically called by the Ministry from the users of the ministry to this proposal. Nor was the people of our educational system saying any new truth. However, for the democratic scheme to develop the school system, it is also good to mention events from the last summer, directly associated with this academic policy, when the new reference schedule of basic schools appeared on a government puzzle and was said to be part of the policy of education. At the conference, it said, with permission of the president: The purpose of change is a sustained low outcome of students in Icelandic and natural sciences that have been observed repeatedly in the PANSA results. ▪ The results of students cannot be ignored. - I feel that this tone is terrible, a respectable president, and I hope the government never talks to children like that again. But what is the parole of the Ministry of Education of these allegedly failed students? Yes, putting into the air an idea of taking all of these lessons from the study schedule to grade 1 to 7 and cutting it very much at grade 8 and 10 and changing all these classes in Icelandic and natural language. Without consultation, it's coming out. Young people involved were not yet contacted. It would have, for example. You can listen to the young people who attended the Synod less than a year earlier. One of the findings in the Children's Council report, given to all government ministers at a solemn ceremony in the Ministerial Resident, was a unanimous call for an increased choice in elementary schools, not to dry it all up, as the minister suggested to punish students for lack of success. In addition, this idea describes such a strange approach to education that it is the quantity, not the quality, but the quantity. So on the day, in most comments given by teachers, people pointed out that there would be no improvement in the number of classes, but there would be no improvement in the number of new study sessions, so that teachers could go to school, take courses, do things that they want to do to be better teachers. That's where we come back to our education that the education system is not going to be an automatic motion force. It takes something to knock the motor. When it comes to teachers, it is simply a matter of paying them and making sure that they have time to do more than just standing in the classroom. I'd also like to mention here the different needs of different groups, especially because there has been a little talk about the position of boys in the school system in connection with this conclusion and in the general educational system; this is one of the insistents, and I'm worried that this overemphasis in the discussion of boys'positions, because they get worse out in reading tests than girls, let people forget that other groups have other problems in the school system. Girls feel worse than boys on average. Transchildren feel worse, they feel the worst in the education system. Often, the needs of disabled students are not cared enough. Students with an immigrant background earlier out of school. These are all groups we have to put our arms around, and we don't have to get into putting too much focus on one of them that could weaken the support of another. In this context, I would like to remind you here on a report by the NYU for the benefit of boys directed by Helga Vigfúsdóttir and returned in September 2011. I choose this document more than anything else because I like that it's just as old as the main course to show how far back the discussion of this matter goes. There are many practical suggestions in the service group that may lead us to wonder whether this need a lot of thought is needed, if we can't just start putting things into practice. One of the suggestions in the group is to strengthen a book version because it will not be read unless people have something exciting to read. If children taste it and become big - working literature as well as well - read children, the schools will be very quick to become a desert for them. They've just read through everything that's legible. So we need to respond by filling these textbooks with new and exciting books. But in this study report on boys'academic success, there is also an interesting suggestion that I would like to draw attention to the attention of the president. There's a suggestion about girls' feelings and study support, possibly the other side of the coin, something that's good to keep in mind so that we remember to keep the focus in all groups. By permission of the President: In view of strong evidence and information in the data that have been examined by a special working group on a girl's well - being, the team suggests that the girl's well - being is set up. Two things are particularly subtle in theory, the anxiety of girls in school, and the potential for girls to be diagnosed sufficiently early in the context of special child service. You see, there are many pots broken in our school system, and we need to make sure that all our children are comfortable and that any action taken to improve the status of a group within the school community is based on the premise that they have a positive influence on all students. The entire group should be able to lift even if we are lifting more than others. Then I just want to think about how far the future will go. Here we have an education policy that reaches the year 2030. Is it particularly long when it comes to education? The primary course is from 2011, which is farther off to our time today than 2030. Children in the 1st grade would be expected to enter 10th grade 2030. It's an academic policy that doesn't even cover one round of high school students. I wondered if we need to look to the future a little further as we set a policy on this system. Then I could have considered, or at least it might have been appropriate, to mention especially the urgent things that the world is facing in view of the future educational system as one of the solutions to the problems. Then I may especially be talking about the climate, but it would also have allowed the United Nations'global goals to be established in general. But as I said, the course is a stroke, and it is commonly said. This may be reflected in the fact that the course itself is 2,700 words, but the opinion mentioned above is 3,400 words. [[The president calls.]] We'll see what induction plans will reveal in the months to put meat on your bones. In this regard, action and financial support are to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u135	A respectable president. Thank you for your fine speech. I think the two of us are gonna be all right. Only the young boys and the discussion that is urgent will be discussed by men. True, schoolchildren's problems are quite unique. A girl's problem is also filled with anxiety, but boys'problems show when they struggle to master reading and they often complain that they do not find themselves within the school system and are spoken of as being unrealistically demanding for those with whom they are having difficulty. You can often hear about it because there's a shortage of male models within the school, there's not enough male teachers there, and they could be role models. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion of this, whether there's any point in the fact that school is too feminine. Although one should be careful about talking out of one's own heart about these matters, I can tell you here that I had quite a lot of male teachers when I was in elementary school and high school and women's teacher, and I can say that the men who were born with something nice for themselves, that they were not at all the right models in life. [[The president calls.]] But the women were so much better to me. [[The president calls.]] All I want is food. The senator for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u136	Mr. President. I may first have to mention that I am not the world's greatest expert in the combination of the teachers'class or the effect of that combination on the class position. But I believe that in the school system, such as in other parts of the community, the group there is as varied as ever. In recent years and decades, the trend in the school system has been that the gender division in the teachers'class has become much more extreme, but it also reflects the values of society. It reflects that these jobs are not worth as much as others, and these are usually linked to women's status, and they also have less pay. Maybe that's the big problem. If we go back to the lock, there are studies that suggest that this difference between boys and girls can be compared when they crawl into adulthood and when they're about 20 years old. But what is quite clear is that a man with less education gets an average higher salary than a woman with more education. This is the negative effect that we need to clear out of our school system, such as anywhere else in the community. There we have expected to have the solution to the principal solution sem the Prosecutor, Olga Margrét Cilia, has pointed out to burn down the fathers'empire. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's probably the best thing to get this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u137	The President reminds us of the point of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u138	A respectable president. We're discussing academic policy here, and as I said in my previous discussion, much is very good in policy, especially in the fact that academicism has arrived. I think it's important. Of course, any problem is when education is put together for all the schools. We do not want it to be too long or too detailed. We want it to be foreordained. I'm going to start by saying that I find much really good at education, but the nature of the problem is, I'd rather go over what I think is lacking, i.e. What has been a bit of a discussion this afternoon, and I mentioned in an anti - Witness reply earlier tonight, which says boys in the school system and the fact that they do not seem to achieve the same reading skills in basic schools and girls. Too often, they do not experience the design of the school for them. Then I'll be referring to the discussion at the kitchen table at my home. I have young boys saying, "Mom, you're always talking about equality, but there's no equality in school. Of course, it is tragic that some may feel that way. That's why I may speak for a certain sensory approach. Let me mention in this context the Halla policy, which is based on the approach that the sexes are separate from the work and that they are especially viewed as needs. According to any information, e.g. There are no measurable differences between sex performances in reading at the University of Hjalla. To say that I'm not saying that education in Iceland should be like Hoallism, but I think it's important that we have variety when it comes to our shoes. It should be noted that this word is widely used in education. We talk about a wide variety of educational backgrounds, and we talk about diversity when talking about teaching in the highest order. It's important. What I personally feel is missing from a discussion of diversity is the diversity of the sector. You see, I am convinced that a variety of basic forms of management - because it is such a popular reputation for our political and school systems. This adds to competition and competition is good. At the same time, people should have decided what to choose for their child until the child is older to choose for himself what school he is attending. I'd like to see a little more work with these factors. It was in opposition to the fact that boys in the school system are spoken of in the leading section of the committee, which says, by permission of the president: While the reports of the reports given to the committee pointed to a more serious level of educational status among boys, the results show that up to 34% of boys cannot read for themselves. These positions and possible solutions were widely discussed, and the committee believes that they will be able to handle the problem and find effective ways to overcome it. But I can't see in changes the policy has to deal with this in particular. Then the General will again review its activities with the Commission and make sure that exactly what is being said here will be done, i.e. to monitor the situation and find effective ways to overcome it. I have mentioned one way that I think is useful to them, and there is a sexual approach in the schools. Now, especially, I refer to basic schools as we talk about reading skills and diversity, both in policy areas, as well as in the management plan. Then I'll just come in like a dog. Councilmen, or members of the council who spoke before me discuss the matter among themselves, i.e. a man teacher. I think it's very important that we increase the number of men in the teachers' class. In his talk, there was some question. paritaprevir Sæmundsson thought we had to approach gender equality in reverse terms. It is because we are too accustomed to talk about gender equality that women's positions need to be considered and that women are down there somewhere. Of course, that's a misunderstanding. When we talk about equality and equality, of course, we're talking about both sexes and all sexes when appropriate, just on the grounds that a society that uses everyone's power, businesses that have both men and women in governments and in management places, is simply more successful. That's why I think it's important that we multiply male teachers. Then I'm going to say, because we've discussed the salary of teachers and only their work environment and concerns that the increase in the number of teachers in the class could have a very positive effect on the teacher's salary - unfortunately, it's ridiculous. But somehow there are remunerations in unions that we talk about as feminine, with more women or more women in the vast majority, simply less. So I think it's one of the things that really matters to improve the quality of teachers, so it still adds to the fact that teaching becomes desirable and even affects the working environment as well. The factor I mentioned earlier, polymorphism in the business format, I think, is also a way to improve the quality of an ideal teacher. What is very characteristic of these Typian women's classes is that those who graduate from high school are often under those professions, and most often they are women, whether they are preschool teachers, elementary teachers, caregivers, nurses, or others, usually have the choice of working for the public. I think the diversity of business practices makes these parties competitive and that they can choose a working environment, can choose an employer. It is simply very important in the work environment, in terms of pay, and in terms of just all competition in this sector. I think it matters because we always have to be on our toes, and we always have to compete to make our education the best. A respectable president. I'm not going to have this much further, but as I said earlier, I'm just mentioning the factors that I'd like to have discussed in high school. I reiterate what I said earlier: There are a lot of great things here, and the main thing is, of course, that we've come to an academic age. But I would have liked to see a slightly higher sensory approach when it comes to this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u139	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, which was interesting. I can't agree with all things, just like the previous speeches. A senator, though, had many fine points. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she believes that this educational program can work, that it can be proved successfully and with great force, by means of the financial support presented in the budget of the 20226 years ago. Now it is the first step to arrive after six months and is not specifically expected in a financial program adopted today in December. I can't see that, at least there's no special budget. Counts 'em out. A senator has to make adjustments to the financial program in order to meet the ambitions of educational plans, or does she think that all of this is within the budget? In the field of culture, art, sports and youth, e.g. expected 17 billion in 2022 but only 15 in 2026, for example. There is little change in high school, college, and other schools. It's just a budget that's standing in place over the five-year period. Do we not have to correct that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very opposed to this and for giving me an opportunity to discuss this matter, for I believe that in this case we disagree, as some others do. You see, I don't think this philosophy is about - I repeat: not, that we need to increase money into our education systems. I think exactly what we're supposed to do in our infrastructure is streamline them. We are to set priorities there and thus succeed. In fact, I think there's a basic difference between our approach in politics. I don't think it's about any more money. I think it's about how we spend the money that goes into the system. We have plenty of measurements that we put a lot of money into the basic school system, I'm going to take it on special terms. Sadly, though, the results of international measurements have not been consistent with that. Then I'm referring to the PISA polls and how much we put on the GDP in the elementary school system. Money has been greatly increased to the university and to some extent in high school as well. But I think our approach in this, and indeed in so many of our infrastructures, is turning number one, two and three on how our money's spent. This does not mean that we are always calling for more money. Rather, it is about our organization and priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting answer. If I've noticed correctly, then the question was, "What?" A senator in his talk that may be the way to improve the quality of a teacher to allow more men to enter the class. The question, though, is: Who will pay? Do we not have to assume the increase or improvement in the interest of teachers in the financial program as well as for the public community? How can you tell? A senator visualizes the dresser's benefits, and where should they enter the school system if they are not to make more money from that government? Then there are a lot of emphasis on training in this policy. However, schooling is far more expensive than academic study. It is not possible to marry a student just against a student in an academic and practical study. We're going to face a lot of technological progress, and it's gonna cost us equipment and shops, and everything possible, all sorts of education equipment that's gonna cost money. I assure you, after spending the early part of my career in running a staff school, that you can't expand your education by dating students for a book study with high school students. To teach technology, you will need extra funding, both in instruments, in equipment, and in human resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. Maybe we'll start with the last thing that ever happened. A senator came in on work and industry and technical advances. Of course, I agree that it takes more to teach such a study than a book study, where you can have more students in your classroom and your kids reading your books themselves, but in the other case, they need access to all kinds of tools and tools. Hv. In this regard, a senator mentioned the advances in technology that we observe and a certain revolution. In fact, there I think that I may be an opportunity for practical management when it comes to technical advancement in the school system. Then I can come to the telecommunication program, but it may also be that technology itself leads to more efficient solutions from the educational system, as it does in the workplace and elsewhere. That's right, and I mentioned it here, that, in the long term, I think the teacher's pay needs to be raised and, of course, it's kind of awful that there are two women here and they're talking about what the education should cost because we're going to grow men, and that's going to raise the pay for teachers. Of course, that is completely absurd. But I believe it, and I thought it was a problem. A senator in some way agrees that this might happen. I don't see the need to increase in the budget that we'll discuss tomorrow and the other. I suppose it's inside that section, and in fact, we've decided the framework of the secretary of finance. I assume that inside it, they are the highest priority. Education Minister has shown his plans for industrial and technical studies. We see a considerable increase in it in these last phases, and I agree with it. A senator's opinion on the importance of our upholding it. My other methods of management, as well as other men in the teachers' class, would result in a pay raise: I realize that the largest part of school management expenses is pay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the biggest team in the world. I think we need to remember that the increase in teacher's salary for a long time and it will probably at some point affect the cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u143	A respectable president. We're here discussing education policy to ten years, education policy 2020 ◯2030. I'm going to allow myself to read only from the introduction of an article with this education policy, which says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Creation is a key to opportunities for the future and one of mankind's major motor forces and prosperity. In times of inequities, uncertainty, and rapid technological revolutions, the nations of the world must prepare for an ever - increasing variance and ever more complex challenges. The future prospects of the Icelandic nation depend on the competitiveness and sustainableness of the Icelandic educational system. Success is based on a well - educated person with creative and critical thinking, social skills, and a good hold in English and foreign languages to cope with global challenges. This text is very promising. Then you wonder: Here is a proposal to conspire academicism for 2020-2030, where the Council concludes that the education of students should be further advanced to 2030, according to a policy of education. Purposes, prospects, and educational policies themselves are made up of over a page. And then these nice words come here, but then, in my opinion, it'll be a little hairy and I feel a little bit like I'm reading some campaign brochure. It is certainly said here in the final meters that induction is the key to achieving set goals. But I feel very little about being discussed in this educational program on how to reach the target. The aim of providing well - educated individuals with creative and critical thinking, with a wide range of social skills and ability in English and foreign languages, to cope with global challenges. This must be our primary goal, to get our people, our children, and our youths into life as well - educated individuals because education is the key. There is very little talk about how we will achieve this success. I miss something not seeing how and what we're gonna do to get it out. New creations in education, variety of studies in this amazingly modified world. We feel very little about it in the schoolrooms of the country, unfortunately. You wonder, " Should I rather be looking at future science in teaching with a few basics, which all must master as English and foreign languages, such as reading and writing, calculate, than that other subjects will be much more diverse? ' The variety of arts, trades, innovations, technology in all kinds of futures, that our choice of students will be much more, that we stop thinking in these boxes because somewhere we're not doing well enough. I'm not saying that we have failed because we are doing well in the society of the nations. But when we compare the effectiveness of Icelandic children and young people with the results of young people in countries we want to compare with them, we do not do very well. First, I want to talk about my first class. The school is the foundation. It could use better than it is now. The experience of many who leave high school in high school might be more mixed with playing and learning, and the fact that this film from high school can be more beneficial, that will not be these overexcited differing institutions that come with the child. Of course, this can be seen by the number of employees working with a group of children who in one afternoon change from three to take care of a group to care for a group alone and to sit still at their table. I'd also like to discuss thebbreviated week of work. We're a little busy with our workweek short. I'm sure that we, an Icelandic country noted for our hard work, who learn from infancy that the work gives us dignity and that we all will be better off working and working and spending more time and being a lot at work, and most rarely coming home than in the past few years, we have suddenly realized that just being at home and meeting their family and cultivating one's own life can also be rewarding. Then I wondered, " Should I take the next step in my short work week and watch the shorter weeks of work for children, preschoolers, elementary schoolchildren, and high school youths? ' Whether this trend in the school system might have three-way schools, three-way elementary school, and later a double elementary school, where half of the study group was in the school before noon, and the other half after lunch, in school, from 8:30 to 14.30 or 15 and then taking time off, perhaps there's something we should reevaluate. Could it be that we should let our children play more, do less work, increase the game, and thus increase the quality of our children's social skills? Hv. paritaprevir Before tonight, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson spoke of readings, and he spoke of health benefits, the importance of learning to read in his own health. I agree deeply with him. How important it is that we discern the importance of good health and how we can improve our health! But I also want to talk about mental health and mental health and our well - being in the school system. In education, with the permission of the president, one of the greatest challenges of the day: ▪ Careful attention should be given to the emotional and social health of students and to improve the quality of daily life that contributes to the best of their well - being. As a youth, churches to promote mental health are one of the most important things in youth and therefore emphasis on fostering the protective factors that weigh more heavily on mental health during childhood. Again, I wondered about the introduction to those words in high school. How should the people's mental health be guaranteed when we are so involved in school? The Committee of Public Education and Education Committee considers that the services of psychologists as well as professionals and sociologists within the walls of the school, as well as the greater education on mental health, should be emphasised on the apparent increase in anxiety and mental well - being among children of the educational system. They consider it important to ensure the responsibility and coordination of services and to form a comprehensive school service that takes children early in life and provides them with the services they need. How do you get it all together? What actions do governments envision? Will they suggest that in the field of education, where we teach people to teach them, there will be a special campaign for mental health? Is there something to be inserted into a syllabus, the social service to be included? What about support for parents of children? One of the best investments in every community is teaching children from an early age to develop protective aspects of mental health and how they can be used in their children's daily life. Importantly, mental activity will be taught in the field of education to support the teacher's ability to impart this instruction. Why am I thinking about this much? Yes, because there has been a lot of talk about the child's well - being in the school system. There is a significant increase in the use of anxiety in girls in the schools of the country. A significant increase. Tryggvi Hjaltason, a founder of fire, returned a review of academicism to the Generals and is thereby a very interesting package that he has also introduced in the media. He cares a lot about boys in the school system, and his tips go very well with the Parliamentary decision of the United States Parliament party here for the 4th-year Action Programme, timed, and financial support, where they score at the highest level. Education minister, raising the way of boys in the school system. Why? Yes, because 35% of the boys are unable to read for their benefit in high school graduations, it is twice the proportion of girls and a considerably higher proportion of boys in other countries we compare with. And it's getting worse. It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... There are 10% more boys today than there were in 2009. In reading sense, there is a higher proportion of boys in a lower level of skills in Iceland compared to the OECD countries, and this is a special Icelandic problem. But it's not just reading, Mr. President, which is a problem. The problem in Iceland. It seems that the ability and well - being of students in Iceland are worse than in other OECD countries. Icelandic children have 34th of the 38th place in developed countries when it comes to educational and social skills. Again, I wondered about the short - term work week for children and young people. When we are in a bad social situation, it may appear. It appears that they are in 34 of 38 seats among developed countries when it comes to education and social ability. How are the children in school? 40% of the 11 - year - old boys in Iceland are very comfortable at school. In school, 46% of Icelandic girls are comfortable at the same age. 76% of the 11 - year - old boys in Iceland experience excellent training from teachers. 84% of Icelandic girls are well supported by teachers, and WHO, the World Health Organization, points out that this is a major difference. This is one of the highest differences seen in the gender report. Boys get lower scores on integrated tests, increasing the difference between the sexes as they live longer in school. In fact, the study shows that teachers commend boys as girls, but it also shows that boys get far more attention in school than girls do. Much more attention is being paid. However, research also shows that the attention the boys receive in the school system is far more negative than positive. They get quite a negative message at school. Why is this? For example, the feelings of both girls at school may be the result of such feelings as a girl's distress because they don't get the attention of teachers at school, boys feeling unwell because they get more negative attention, at least is so that they get lower grades. More than a third of them are unable to read for their benefit in high school, the suicide rate among 10◯19 - year - old boys is no greater in the north than in Iceland, and Icelandic 11 - year - old boys are champions of pornography. A third boy falls out of high school. In the United States, there are more men without high school education at the age of 25◯34 than in most other Western countries. 24% of men in this age group have not completed primary school, but the ratio is 15% for women. 24% of men, 15% of women, and the difference is as great as in Iceland, an equal paradise in Iceland. We're world famous for being the best on equality at the same time, as it is in the Icelandic school system. Why doesn't all of this prenuption suggest this, to improve the interests and balance between the sexes of the school system? The fact that there is so much confusion between the sexes in the school system will lead to social problems later on. The goal of 4.5 in the UN's world target is: ▪ As late as 2030, gender discrimination in the educational system has been eliminated. In a proposal for a conference of academicism for the years 20200/2030, it is not one word about the status of boys in the school system despite all these tests and all this discussion over the past few years, all the discussion that someone in the community feels quite enough about and that they are always talking about how bad boys are in the school system. But when those who are making Iceland's policy in education fail to comment that this very inequities between the two sexes in the school system, you obviously need to speak higher and higher and more and agree to the Synod proposal of the Union's Congress on an action program to improve the status of boys in the school system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u144	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. A senator because she is the head of a welfare committee on top of everything else and came here to consider very important aspects of education that affect the health of students of the school system. The Committee of Public Education and Education Committee says that the services of psychologists, students and therapists and sociologists must be increased within the walls of the school. It is now, for example. very soon since we agreed to commit psychologists to health insurance, that the payer of health insurance should include the services of psychologists, but it had no financial support. I would like to ask myself, " Is this just such an empty promise, a promise of a ministry that is under pressure to provide too much? ' While the services of psychologists pay a great deal of money when the entire effect is combined, it costs. These people have to be paid. It has to be hired. Has a what? A senator in his role as the head of a welfare committee somewhere comes across space in a financial program, the one being removed now but was introduced in the fall, to cover the costs of this service that we agree to be very important?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and must tell about the psychiatric funding, first of all, that, of course, it was thrown off the table immediately, within 24 hours after the General Assembly agreed that psychological services would be part of the health insurance system in Iceland. So that psychiatric service is unappreciated in the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, and quite clear that it will remain, at least for the next four years if this government continues to be authorized. There's no money to grab these students. Nowhere is it said to finance any form of psychiatric activity, but this should just happen somewhere else, possibly at home with no support. Only with regard to the psychological services provided, of course, increased financial support for mental - health services has been given. It allows children to attend a psychological service. There are very long waiting lists, and very few are doing this service. If we look at this from the school and education system, we have this education system that, after about two thirds of college studies, and possibly half of schools, a child has become an adult and falls out of all available support in this regard. For a student who cannot take bills to a psychiatric union, it is impossible to obtain psychological services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u146	A respectable president. I'm not old enough to have ever had a checkbook, but I wondered if this section on the well-being of the school system, this part of mental activity, is not just a rubber check, if it's not just an empty promise of something that's inexpensive and that's just an idea. There's probably nothing particularly beautiful on the part of a minister. But I didn't want to spend any more time with it. I thought of--what. A senator spoke of bridges between school stairs, and I wholeheartedly agree that they need increased flexibility, that is, just part of letting the school system reflect more fully the diversity of people who go through them. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A senator on the first bridge that enters the nursery. We've just agreed to accept the prolongation of birthworm from nine months to twelve months. At an assembly, a bridge must be built on the part of the countryside so that children can go to school right after they are born. But nothing is going on with that masquerade, especially now that our rural communities have serious problems with losing their income in Covid and raising their expenses. Is it not a matter of time that the head of the welfare committee is not headed for a disturbance in that matter? We're talking about the first year of the baby's life due to one year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u147	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I'd like to talk to him about a rubber check. Yeah, I'm actually having a rubber check to talk about mental activity like that, but having little or nothing to do with it, having no solutions, and not getting a conversation with the banker about how you're gonna get out of this or solving a case about buying something or depositing in the check you've already written. Then the question may be, because we're talking about psychotherapy, whether the council error proposal is a possibility of a complete checkbook that can be done in this way. You see, there were 20 magazines in each checkbook, and at one time they could be written quite a lot without anyone asking if there was anything in the bank accounts. Of the fact that the bridge gaps from maternity to nursery selection, it is true that the rural communities are in very different shapes. Granted, there is a growing number of places in Reykjavík, building many infant branches here to do so. Unfortunately, however, the head of the advance party returns the highest. Government Ministers and the government were rich when it comes to a more balanced exchange and a more reasonable exchange of income between state and rural society. [[The president calls.]] There is another discussion that we need to take later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u148	A respectable president. Of course, there is a fundamental basis for a clear, social educational policy that is being carried out in a systematic way. This proposal for a conference resolution on education policy for 2020-2030 suggests that further education should be undertaken to 2030, which is, of course, the good. The general list, I'd like to say, is fine in education, and I'm among those who sign a committee opinion about it, in the foundation because I support the direction this is won and put forward and that it is in the background. However, I feel that the policy for my taste is full and that I would want to see a clearer coherence in policy development, the results and measures of success and reevaluation, that this would be more clear than found in the general theme. These points are not addressed in education itself. In the course of academic policy, the defined emphasis is without any question as to how to achieve it. To establish good and important aspects of the policy, such as a higher team of students, increased recognition of the teacher's work, improved post-school jobs, advanced art and technical education, increased and improved learning counseling at all school levels, some action must be taken. Some consultation must take place; some goals must follow increased financial contributions. But it doesn't say anything about the routes. It doesn't say how these common groups should be carried out. There is no need to deal with the introduction. Our committee magazine explains that education is designed to frame emphasis that will be placed in the foregrounds of the education system for the next ten years. It attributes some elements and actions to the induction programme. However, the differences would have been more natural and would have been better if they had been submitted concomitantly, where the priorities had been discussed, what the focus was within each category, how to measure results, how to follow-up, and what to do. Zeal would have been an abundance of good things. The responsibility of different people would well have been defined. All those factors could have shed light on the course itself. The policy would have been clearer and clearer, the aims and means, by means of a follow-up plan. I'd like to mention a few things in particular. First of the points mentioned in the committee opinion and in terms of viewpoints heard on the subject, i.e. the course should have been fully developed in preschool, elementary school, and high school, but the course should have been discussed in the course of learning and re-education and learning at that stage. It has no real emphasis to form, and that is to my mind. The big thing that I wanted to do and that I have been discussing today and tonight is about reading and reading. I am among those who present a question mark to the approach in teaching children to stress their speed. It's still the focus of reading lessons. I'd like to say, this focus at speed. I give a speech tonight that has given me the importance of focusing at least as much understanding as speed. In fact, after having had three children at the elementary school, I have to look to the study material in this regard, the study design, and the publication. That's where things change perfectly. There I think we could do better as a community by bringing children books that are fun and tickled and that have more focus on how much more the study is reinvigorated than ever. In this way, we show children the respect they deserve in their studies. I'd like to agree with the textbook's review of the subject that deals with the important role of the Institute of Education in this context. In my mind, the policy of dealing clearly about the work of the National Institute of Education and the Agency's connection with school work would have made it clear, for example. Embrace a future view of study evaluation and its development, but also on study projects at all school levels. I think there must be something very important in the context of planning to be more effective in reading and reading children. It's not that I want to sound in a way that things are necessarily bad at the basic schools of the country, but I think the book must be a key to attracting children to reading. I also want to agree with what is stated in a letter from the Board of Library, which says that it is unfortunate that libraries have not been put higher in the motion. It is true that the library is only very brief. Of course, the libraries play a very important role in school, both in the school activities of children, but also in the formal and informal training of adults. I'm in that the library, both the good library and the digital one, is an important key to locking children and the key to opening the book's world. I'm sorry the library can't be mentioned in this context. In the chapter on equal opportunities for everyone, we have not yet been able to form clearly how we are going, for example. to help read and even opportunities for students of foreign background, children who have English as a second language. Of course, there is a key question, a basic question, especially when we consider the percentage of foreigners in our country. I would have liked to see a better understanding of how we're going to achieve equal opportunities, how we're going to secure the access of these children to the language, the Icelandic language, through the lock, and how we're going to ensure equal opportunity of children in this regard. Education also discusses a wide range of educational cultures, as it says, without the direct discussion of independent schools. The variety of schools and schools does not result in a wide variety of educational backgrounds. The diversity of schools on this course or in school and not on business plans is not the result. Independent schools are discussed in the law. That's where they're recognized. Of course, it is known and is known that such activities create an opportunity for a degree of innovation and diversity in school and are an important and enjoyable addition to the public school system. They are also part of a future education policy. They could have been turned in a decisive way. The point, the list I began with, is fine as far as they can go, but it remains to form a course. The review and review of individual teams within the policy framework should be taken into account. I think it would have been very good to put it very clearly that during the 2020/20-2030 period there would be a predetermined evaluation, and after the events a review of how to achieve it. As I reasoned that at the beginning, I would have liked to see a clearer presentation, not only a list of goals, but the pattern of progress in which to be targeted, that in the induction was also a space for reassessment and after the events reviewed, it would be more clear to the closer priorities and focus within each category and responsibility defined in a clear way. All of this would have shed light on the real content of our policy. Of course, the course will not be much alive until it is actually under way. It is a defect that the induction programme has not been discussed and performed concomitantly. This would have made our policy more clear to all of us, and the discussion of academic policy would have resulted in the loss of a better landing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u149	President. I'd like to spend a few words on some aspects of education, end up important issues, for the next few years and decades, at least a decade on this policy. This has led to the problem of boys in the school system, which is interesting to look at. In view of the numbers of high school graduates, land, age, and genders from 1995-62019, I'm going to cite a summary of the Árni of Gunnar Ásgeirsson's son, it was seen that high school, university, doctor's study, and additional studies have increased in those years. This fact is remarkable in the face of other problems that may exist, but despite it, the number of graduates from these school classes has increased. In terms of population growth, this is only altered, but it is very difficult to perform an analysis because, for example, it is very difficult to do so. increasing number of people with foreign citizenship in different ways, men increasing e.g. More than women, and there's a lot of flutter inside. However, taking into account this, the number of high school graduates has actually decreased after a crash, which is interesting. This is true both of men and women, yet the number of men has been graduated. The figures in this number are a little more complex than they look at the first vision, for although the number of track - numbered men of these schools has increased much more. This comparison, despite the fact that the figures say they are doing well in general, looks bad if we just talk about a number of graduations from these school levels. So the story is not entirely said in the discussion that has been here. While there is a problem among certain groups of boys, there has been an outstanding success among them. This seems to be a contradiction, but it doesn't have to be. That is exactly what this is all about. I've completed my studies, and I've been going through the education system about twice. After finishing high school, I went back to school as an instructor, then taught as an instructor in elementary school before going to college and to a doctor's school, where I learned computer science with special emphasis on study computers or academics. There, I wrote a few articles on education, caused by presidents' permission, i.e. analysing the evidence behind people's learning. I find it a little interesting to examine the academic policy in this regard that I'm not that of the trend in education computer technology, taking into account data that can arise when students are studying, studying, and they produce results. It provides specific information that can be used to intervene if students do not respond to tasks or do not participate or do things like them, there is much more early intervention. My project, for example. was about to examine people while they were doing their assignments, whether the computer system could predict this before the student gave the assignment whether he would succeed or fail. The analysis was very accurate after all. I was kind of surprised at how accurate she was. In fact, the main forecast was just how much the student participated in the study, how often he was able to read and read the study, or what other students added into the discussion. Just the simple change, this part, gave a huge deal about how the students went into the study. Here I have often mentioned the developments that take place and could be better used, as it were, artificial intelligence and education technology, in the discussion of boys'positions, how some groups are in a bad position, but in general, the educational system was being successful. When it comes to changing things in the education system, it is so difficult to support these changes, for despite the failings of present education, which affect certain groups and certainly need to be adjusted, there has been progress in the past few years and decades and, in fact, always after all. Is it possible to change the education system in a way that produces greater results? That is a question we always need to ask ourselves. That's where I'm going to find some basic points that need to be in education. There is access to the evidence that we, the public, are helping to create, access to new knowledge. There's a problem there, e.g. At a university level, whether public funds will be returned to public property on the test results. There are certain walls that keep the funds we add to our knowledge creations from becoming our common property. It is responsible for opening the bioavailability and the academic freedom which is e.g. being suggested, and necessary, into the constitution. We're in an interesting place in education. We are in so much development and rapidly developing as a society of technological innovations. It's been a bit slow, if we could put it that way, both during the council and in the educational system, a certain slow generation, I would say. It is certainly difficult to develop new technologies constantly, especially without the fact that there is research behind them in one way or another. There are tremendous opportunities for future education, and we need to consider more closely the development and technological development that can help us improve education for all and especially for those who fall between and those who actually miss the train. The education system is one big train, and you actually step on a nursery. If you get kicked off the train somewhere, the train will just keep going. She has been doing this since I was in school. It has been tried to better-invent an individual course of study, and it works out and down, and the consequences are as they are for many other reasons. But surely we should seize the opportunities that technology offers and do better than we have done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-23-72.u150	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of members with a bill-change proposal to legalize the various legislation related to rural affairs (participation and Korean epidemic). This is the opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee available for transport. 1078 and this is No. 478. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them, reviewing the comments on the subject. The bill is presented with authority for rural society to be removed from rural financial laws for a longer time than is currently being done. Then, to meet the local rancor because of the crown virus epidemic and to increase the privacy of rural society through the collection of real estate bills, the report is submitted by the Commission. These are proposed to change rural legislation, allowing societies to cope with unusual situations, such as epidemics or natural disasters. I'm just going to include a few items that are discussed in the committee opinion, but in other respects refer to a written committee opinion. The committee received comments and tips for the 3rd Team. the bill that is proposed for rural society to reduce or lower the risk of tropism due to real estate taxes laid in a job house in the year 20200/2022 for currency users who have significant problems due to the colony's pandemic or clients who rent housing to the operators under the same conditions, on the basis of the rules established by rural society. Clearly, the source given by rural communities in the bill to reduce or reduce the growth of property taxes demand is universal and provides considerable scope for the development of rules, conditions, and criteria for such implementation. The committee, however, feels that it is necessary to stress the fact that it is solely responsible for the implementation of such rules and is therefore not obliged to do so by local authorities. The Commission is aware of the view that the delay in the collection of property taxes and the decision to cut down or decrease growth may affect rural business, to create an increase in loan costs, but it should be noted that the aim of such measures is to assist viable companies, who have suffered a significant temporary loss of income to maintain seawater, thus ensuring long-term taxation of rural society. Therefore, it is important to make a decision that local governments have the responsibility to set policy and decide whether such rules should be set on the basis of the democratic authority given them to make decisions on the financial issues of a community society. The Commission stresses that in view of the scope given to rural areas for the implementation of such rules, each community is looking for ways to achieve the most efficient implementation. In view of the Committee, it is not necessary to make a specific recommendation in the legal text that local communities are allowed to call for data from the tax due to sectoralisation, and, on the basis of the directive, local communities can call for all the data they think are necessary to determine if you have significant problems with the Korean virus pandemic. It is then stated that it is possible for rural communities to be united in the rules of rules of rules, but where circumstances in each rural society differ, the committee is important, although it is important that rural communities be given a final decision on the implementation of regulations that should apply in each community. The Commission suggests two technical modifications to the bill, and they have no material influence and therefore do not have to be specifically attributable to it, and then the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with the two changes. Under the committee, Bergþór Ólason and Árnason Arnam, who were absent from the case and signed as a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson signed in advance and then wrote Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé under count as well as Director Liné Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir.
