ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u1	Mr. President. The logic presented in this case is that it is all about national emancipation. All right. This may well be the case. But there is the possibility that this could limit the bioavailability of less - than - life loans. It may not be. But because this made a double point, and it's not completely clear to me that this will have to do with the desired result, I'm going to sit by on this matter. It's not that I'm directly against it, but I'm not entirely convinced of the evidence, and there's a danger there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u2	Mr. President. There is a real danger that this situation will result in the loss of the potential for money - related loans to buy houses and build up property. Our goal should be to do the opposite, to help people build things up progressively. But it's not for that. The problem had already become quite significant, as many have been aware of the lack of loans, no credit ratings, despite paying higher rents than it would be necessary to pay. This is against the positive and important goal of making it possible for most people to have a home, so I don't support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u3	V.E.G. President. This case is big and important. We're on the less part of the job committee, me and him. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isoffason, this was proposed by a deliberation proposal, where we believe it would have required longer time and more development, it would have had to be developed earlier. This is a big, important issue that takes a long time to process the issues involved. However, we are not opposed to the situation as it is presented; we would have had to do it much better. That's why we have this contraband to refer the case to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u4	A respectable president. I was going to explain our position on this matter in general. We agree that this matter needs to be won much better. It is a key factor for the entire population in the country, especially for our country's settlements, that electricity forests are strong and powerful. We've seen it, including. In the storm last year, so it isn't. We've been neglecting these infrastructures. We need a strong Landsnet, and I'm afraid the step being taken is not decisive enough to promote special status and strength of the Landsnet just to meet the normal national requirements that the people there, companies and homes have rich and normal access to electricity transport. I'm afraid of this step that's being taken, so I can't support the whole thing, believe that it needs to be won much better, and it'll go much better down on top of it, so we can keep a better grip on Landsnet so that the Landsnet won't be the sole section of the Continement of this case. They need to think more about it, and that's why we're going to sit by on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u5	Mr. President. As the president mentioned, there is some kind of agreement to end this matter soon. So I won't take this far, but part of the deal was to propose a change. paritaprevir This is where Árnadóttir Kolbrún Aardandóttir could communicate, which is a great improvement. Despite this, it is a fine matter, and although a man spoke well of it, there was a lack of equal communication between athletes and other youth members, as it were. magazines, the comments of the KFUK and the Young Associations. Change done. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún's annual Árnadóttir is supposed to make things right. I am content to read the paper with the adjustment proposal, for it is very clear that it explains it. It says, by permission of the president: For children and adolescents to grow up, exercise and youth is important. It is suggested that the same rules of payment for youth - oriented movements as for sports playmates are based on the effects of the crown virus epidemic. This ensures equality regardless of whether they perform the sport or the youth service of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u6	President. I just wanted to come up here and realize that we're gonna be supporting this, but we're gonna have a new plan. The current law allows the jobseeker to lose the right to unemployment benefits of rejecting a job, even if the job he receives is in no way compatible with his professional experience and education. We suggest that the right to improve is not lost when an individual does not reject a job that is in accordance with previous employment experience or education, and I suggest that we support that proposal. Surely we would not want to force people to work that does not qualify them in any way by threatening that people will otherwise lose their rights. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u7	Mr. President. Group members support the extension of the measures presented here. It would have been preferable, though, if we had received some information on the table in front of us during the progress of the problem on how these options have been implemented. Today, it was reported that out of 1,000 jobs created by a special campaign of the government, some 900 were male and about 100 women's jobs. We have in front of us that women and people of a foreign background are the ones who lost their jobs, who ended up in the full - time service, in the Korean era. It's often good to think a little bit ahead when you're going into major operations, and I encourage the government to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u8	A respectable president. Pirates and I do it. This is a minimum limit to meet the number of people who are out of work today, that jobseekers are not left behind to the companies who have been encouraged to contact the employment agency and report them if they reject jobs that are inappropriate for them. We've heard from the labor movement that it fears that people are being reassigned to the tourism services at a much lower price than when they were expelled from the tourism service before Covid started. Now we add to the oppression that they can be reported so that if they don't take some piece of shit with lice, they'll lose their jobs. We are just making a minimum requirement for people to refuse employment that is not appropriate. As if it wasn't just natural in a welfare community? Oh, boy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to continue a little discussion about this other quality. It's like I went over here at 2nd. I often find this class of subjects to be of little importance to the interests and rights of human victims rather than to punish bacteria. I'm not minimizing its importance, and hence this bill, this is a very important matter. I expect it to be legalized, indeed, with all the votes, I suppose. We'll see about that. But as I said to the 2nd. victims of human halls are sometimes forced to engage in illegal activities, such as drugs or anything similar. As far as I can see from the news and the evidence of the past, it's still a problem. This will only be considered at the end of this series of articles. There are words that make you feel that this is not a problem, that victims of human halls are not punished for the illegal conduct they are forced to participate in. The problem, however, is that what I have seen in the news after the law was accepted does not completely rhyme with what I have seen. I'm not going to go back to the foul language I mentioned here last to the 2nd. Since a Spanish woman was sentenced to prison in Iceland for drug abuse, although it was totally clear and totally undisputed among judges, prosecutors, and everyone who was the victim of a human hall. It was undisputed, and no one said that she was standing in this by herself or by her own will. Yet she was judged. It was 2014, I think. A report in 2018 also showed that the South American police were concerned about the legal situation, but the laws discussed in the report on this bill are from early times, dating from 2013 years earlier. I think they've come into effect in 2009 or something similar. So it's been a problem, it seems to be, at least, a problem enough for Southnes police to worry about it, and that alone is a problem. However, there is another factor that I feel I must mention, and it is not necessarily a pleasant subject for the council. I just want to start by saying that I speak here completely and only for myself, not necessarily for all the rest of Pirata's members. In Iceland, pornography is still forbidden, i.e. The production and distribution of pornography That is almost unique, as I see among liberal democracies, but I recently saw in the news that Lithuania was also banned. It's legal in Sweden, it's legal in Denmark, and that's legal in Norway. In fact, it is legal to some extent in Turkey. I think the reason for this is that we haven't quite taken that conversation to the end why exactly what we want to do is to have pornography banned in Iceland. It is good and blessed that people are against pornography or are concerned about the negative consequences of it. Pornography does not fix these problems, nor was it put in order to fix these problems. It was not by feminists to save people in the sex industry but by men of the 19th century. Only men were involved in making those laws. They did so in as much a fathers' era as possible. It's just a historical fact, a respectable president. I know people sometimes feel tired hearing this, but it's like this. This does not mean that victims of human halls who are forced to participate in making pornography in some way are somehow rescued from that situation. It is not the influence of that prohibition. The effect of the ban is that victims are punished. That, in my opinion, is morally wrong. It is, in my opinion, antifeminian, that feminists don't agree on this, and I think we should remove them from the law. I mention it because I feel that this discussion is the same as I am about this case, i.e. that there is much more to it than the victims, the victims. More emphasis is placed on punishing someone to prevent something from being done, which is quite understandable to the point of view and the importance of this bill. However, at the same time, it is forgotten that there are also well - meaning candidates and well - meaning legislation that can have negative consequences for that group. The business is another sort of case we've been discussing here quite a lot, and I hope that some day the Senate will run away with it. It's the same story there. It involves aversion to drugs, which can be completely chemical and natural and legitimate, and that results in a loss on those who suffer from the problem, you see drug abuse users who have suffered from problems with their consumption. It's morally wrong, as far as I'm concerned. We should not punish people for their problems, nor may we have problems, nor may we later have problems. Of course, when it comes to pornography, it is not a new phenomenon. Pornography is produced and distributed worldwide. It is hoped that no one will be surprised that there is much more than the free supply of pornography on the Internet today, more than any human could ever want to watch. I hope there's a complete explanation, and there's no disagreement about it. I know that some people are opposed to pornography because they tend to reduce the production of pornography. I would point to the fact, a respectable president, that it is not. That's a fact. People can dislike that fact, but reality is just what it is. Whether we are concerned about viewing pornography with negative results or that youths view pornography with negative results, such as their view of it as a sex education or something like that, pornography does not fix that problem, nothing. It just doesn't do it in any way. Not only does it save a child from the negative consequences of pornography but it does not save the only victim of a human hall who is forced to participate in making pornography and spreading it against his will. That's not what the law does today. I see what. A senator shakes his head and rolls his eyes over this speech. I realize where that attitude comes from, and I even respect it. I just want to make a mistake that doesn't mean that pornography is harmless. I can't believe it's harmless, I think it's a real danger because of the indistinct availability that young people and children have of pornography today. I think we should take it and we should do it seriously. I agree completely that there are a lot of pornography in which violence takes place, pornography that is demeaning to women, and other people too, and I find it bad. Pornography does not save it, does not change it, and does not improve its concern. It is not necessarily fun to listen to this talk, but I also respect it. But there it is. It is our responsibility here at the Council to face reality as it is, even when it is unpleasant and also when something needs to be pointed out is unpleasant and pathetic. It is our responsibility to create legislation, however, that does the best we can to protect the rights and interests of victims, to sufferers, not only to follow the wicked one as important as it can be but also to consider the rights and interests of those who are exposed to law. It's not a coincidence I mention this in the discussions on this subject and in these situations. Earlier this year, however, OnlyFans became an extensive discussion of a Web site. Time does not last me to review everything that really matters there. But there are people in Iceland today who sell their sex content on this site for a price. The tissue takes 20%, I understand. These people appear in the media and say that they do it voluntarily. I'm not in any position, and I don't think any of us in here are in that position, to tell these people what they really think, what they really want to do or what circumstances they're in. Rather, we should listen to these people themselves and receive their viewpoints and accept their views and language credible. This group is in the strange position of being condemned by various sources in the community, some of them just think it's disgusting, just hate it simply, and it's seen in the disgusting places these people get. Other people are concerned about the interests of these people; they don't believe that any human would do this except because of child abuse or the terrible circumstances or something like them. I'd like to listen to the people themselves who tell about their situation rather than what any third party in town thinks or I feel personally. We simply cannot afford to decide for other people in their circumstances. We have to listen to people ourselves, the people in the situation. If we do, we hear very clearly that there are certainly shadows in this world, but what will be clear is that even if people are in the darkest circumstances, the law of law is so today that the police could confiscate these people's income and could be charged with sexual misconduct by the law of law, 210. .................... that deals with the production and distribution of pornography. A respectable president. If we are concerned with the interests of human victims, we must see that it is simply not civil, it is just moral wrong, punishing these people, no matter what the circumstances, no matter what we think we may say about these situations. It's moral wrong, and we shouldn't. I've written two or three thistles on this subject, and there's no exception being turned out of what I'm saying. That's all I expect. It's such a subject that people just seem to feel like they're turning out of it. For myself, that's dishonest, and I'm just gonna get my full throat. I will not allow this group of people to be more concerned about their own career and to make up strange motives for others, just to be able to express how much they hate pornography or the sexual industry. It is good and good to hate pornography, and it is good and good to hate the sex industry. That's not the point, Mr. Honorable President. We all agree on that. But we should not punish victims because they are immoral. I did more in this discussion than I planned in the beginning. But it is now that when such a tambourine subject, which is rarely talked about and people like to forget, a discussion is released. Although I support this case and, of course, support it in punishing a man's room, we must not forget the victims of the law. We must take it to heart if our laws are so strong that people who are oppressed, victims of human halls, hesitate to contact authorities or cooperate with authorities because of fear of negative consequences. Then there is one attitude that I have observed with the authorities and with the people in general. They often act as if the negative effects of their use of others were not major, not of special importance. Again I repeat: We must listen to the victims themselves, to the victims themselves, to the people in the situation. It is the people who are to instruct us. We should not tell these people how they feel or what their circumstances are; we should listen when they are due. We need to be able to talk about this aloud, and we must be able to make decisions that are so that we face reality just as it is. We don't have to like him. We don't have to agree with him, we don't have to go through with him, but we have to understand him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u10	Madam President. Let's talk about it. The senator was interesting. I felt as if she were spoken by two men. I'm going to try to ask them both, because one man spoke of his sympathy for victims of human halls, how difficult they were, and what it would be necessary to do for them, which I deeply agree with. But the other one spoke of allowing pornography. How these two things must fall together is completely hidden from me. Hv. A senator spoke of listening. I wonder about it, and there's one question to why. Senator: Has he listened to the representatives of the Stepamoths? Has he listened to the representative of the parenting professions who have pointed out that the pornography industry - pornography is going on and on. A senator seems to believe that we should just give in to it and accept the fact that this is the case. We may also be expected to accept it if the public is driving very fast. Then we will accept it only, but we will not put more severe wood on it. I have to admit, I just don't understand. There, there was an old - fashioned attitude in the speech of young men. Senator. He seems - and he corrects me if I'm wrong - accepts this old myth of the happy whore, i.e. That women and women, especially - pornography, do so only voluntarily, deliberately just do so, under no pressure. I admit, I just don't understand. That's why I'd like to ask both questions. Councilmen whether the above is the point of view; sympathy for wrongdoing; or allow pornography. Moreover, pornography leads to further violations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u11	A respectable president. Sadly, this is rather a typical attitude. I must say, I myself am a little amazed at what people find difficult to understand, not punishing victims. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u12	Ask them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u13	We do not punish the victims.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u14	Ask them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u15	Hv. A senator asks if I listened to the representative of Stepamoths. And the answer is yes, of course I have. Of course, I have also listened to the views of those who have been in the sex industry, perhaps enjoyed it first, and then lead them to some dark valley, some repugnant thing that the person wants to get out of. In none of these cases, I know that it is appropriate or moral defender to punish those who face the problem and face oppression. That's what the porn ban does today, and that's it. It simply does not have the effect of reducing the production of pornography or its distribution or access to it. It simply doesn't have that effect, a respectable president. I challenge it. A senator reading the law. It doesn't have that effect. Refuseance with pornography does not contradict the refusal to punish victims of human halls. It simply does not contradict it. But, hey. A senator seems to think of this as similar to the drug issue, i.e. that drugs have negative consequences and to make sure that people do not use them still have negative consequences. We need to punish people for the problem they are dealing with on account of the phenomenon. That, a respectable president, is only irresponsible and immoral to me. I'm worth what. A senator, though, is as pleasant as others are. Congressers and certainly many people here in the community, that people don't seem to understand for reasons I'm not ignorant because it's a very simple point: not punishing the victims. Well, that's not the focus. We're here to punish the slaves. We're here to punish those who make the manor. We are to punish those who oppress other people, not those who oppressed themselves. I don't know how to explain this any better, Mr. Honorable President. As for the happy whore as a dog. A senator then mentioned that I did not discuss it or whether it exists because of that, a respectable president, in my opinion, it has nothing to do with it. Adultery - whether happy or not - should not be punished.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He did not seem to have listened to what I asked him about. He says he's against pornography and he's against punishment. But the senator is not against pornography; he wants to allow pornography. This isn't the first time, Madam President, that this fine senator will step on this deck and understand all matters much better than both the other. It is a wake - up to lose such a council member who has the highest authority in many matters and then can lead them astray. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: If he wants to allow pornography to be allowed, thinking that engaging in pornography would have no effect on the offer, the interests of those who are working in such a way, and the need to do it, they are hurt, perhaps. The senator will allow all pornography, including, for example. Child pornography? Because manalis isn't tied to an 18-year-old plus. Manor goes down to her babies, and the pornography industry does not ask about social status, status, or age. So I'll have to ask him what. A senator, since he wants to allow pornography and says that it is even the only way to overcome it or to make the matter worse than it is, whether this planned removal of pornography involves him on the part of child pornography.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u17	A respectable president. When you drink the cup to be bold about these matters, you have to answer such foolish questions. The question is a foolish, respectable president. It is foolish for the reason that if we were to sit here and discuss some sexual behavior that had been once considered immoral or somehow wicked, if someone came up here and said, "Hey, free people have only their own bodies, you can treat your own body as you would like. " Then let's go. One of the officers here would say, " Can children be abused? ' Wouldn't that be a foolish question, Mr. Honorable President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u18	I didn't ask you like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u19	Hv. A senator just asked me like that, a respectable president. [[Up front.]] There's a fundamental difference between adults and children, such as why. A senator well knows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u20	I didn't ask about it...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u21	I don't have to explain the difference. Senator. There's no one here... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u22	The president asks the senators to stop talking to each other. The talk has been made according to tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u23	A respectable president. There's a fundamental difference between adults and children, such as why. A senator well knows. He asks this question to mislead the discussion, as is sadly common if someone dares to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u24	Questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u25	There's a difference between adults and children, a difference that's obvious, a difference that's legalized. Besides, I'm not talking about porn being all right here. Pornography is a real threat, a real problem that results from it. What I'm saying is, we're not supposed to punish the victims. I would like to ask in return, a respectable president: If a child becomes a victim of a child who takes pictures and shows them, should the child be punished? Should the child be punished? How Would You Answer? Senator? [[Up front.]] The answer is no, it should not be punished, of course not. Why not? Because it would be immorality, a respectable president. That's the whole point. Hv. A senator would like to draw this into some personal view of pornography and pornography or such. I'm sure we can talk about it. But that does not change the fact that we are not to punish the victims, a respectable president. That's what I was talking about. Hv. A senator can continue to try to mislead the discussion from something else. I'm gonna stick with this stuff.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u26	Madam President. Listening to what is bad is always interesting. A senator and a good opportunity to exchange words in reply about important things, as we have done before, we did it on the 2nd. this case. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ Mansal is a gross violation of human rights that violates the privacy of an individual. The violations are directed against the freedom of violations and the most sacred personal rights in order to use the person's body, hard work, or knowledge in other ways. We're here on a very serious offense. We hear it from the police, and we read in police reports that it's about this and we think it's very likely that this violation will be involved in this case in Iceland and it's terrible to think about. But the points I was going to mention in this round of things. A senator is the penalties of lawbreakers. I think I know what. A senator is well - equipped with the bill, the one attributed to the back of the report. There is a law on the treatment of criminal cases, as well as in general penalties that should ensure that perjury wrongdoers are not punished. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he considers these provisions to be beneath him to be insufficient. As a result: If he believes that he is, has he thought to make some adjustments in this bill to correct the situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u27	A respectable president. I must admit, I myself am a little confused over the situation. The reason is the time line in the legislation. At the end of the report, we will see that 74. g. a general law of penalties is decreed that punishment is not readily available when people are forced to act. When I read the law, it looks okay to me. The problem, however, is that this cold is beginning in 2009. The report discusses this 74th paragraph. General penalties of 2009 and 26 pars. The European Parliament's Convention on Human Relations and, above all, about 146. the treatment of criminal cases where it is said that if a crime has caused an unusual degree of suffering on the part of the defendant itself, or other special reasons recommend that the public interest demands it, it does not require a lawsuit. If I just read it this way, everything seems okay to me and I can see that the authors thought it was okay. However, in 2014, this young woman from Spain, who suffered a bit of an unpleasant treatment on the part of her tormentor, whom I'm not going to repeat, is clearly punished by us as a victim of human hall, which happened after this legislation was given. Why? That case never went to the Supreme Court, as far as I can see it, so I don't quite know how it would end. I wouldn't fully trust myself to propose a legal adjustment proposal at this point because I don't quite understand where the problem is. Is this some kind of misunderstanding with the officials of the system? I don't know. Is there any other law that gets in the way? I don't know that well enough to trust myself in providing a bill. But this calls to my attention when I read this otherwise fine bill because, as I say, the sufferers have often forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u28	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I thank him too for stressing the importance of this matter. Clearly, the author of the bill and the report feels that this is of great importance, as this is discussed in a number of ways. I see why. A senator believes that a judicial committee may raise questions in the matter, and I wish him good success in researching the matter so that he can understand it. Madam President. The report gives a detailed consideration to the risk assessment report by the State Marshal, dated in May 2019. The report states that there is much evidence to suggest an increase in prostitution in this country, and part of it has to do with foreign groups of crime groups. The report goes on to say that Iceland is the destination for human halls, especially construction halls, restaurants, and tourism, and so forth. According to a report by the U.S. Marshal's House of Analysis, by permission of the president, a large increase in the number of trustees is shown to increase the risk of mansellers. I'd like to see what I can find out. A senator's attitude and attitude toward this statement by the governor, who is considered a reason to promote and highlight and reiterate this report by the important and effective bill we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and important question. Now, by taking refuge, they are in a more delicate position. They can be badly damaged, especially when needed, e.g. to earn money from a job, to have a special authority license to do so, a limit I don't fully understand myself if I'm to say exactly what it is. No doubt we can talk about it on a better occasion and hopefully in relation to another matter. But when people are placed in a sensitive position toward the authorities, it is easier to blackmail and abuse them. That is true of all people, including those who find refuge. If they're put in a position where they have to watch a lot of the system - fit to do everything right, let's make no mistake, that they're in a lot of trouble if they do, for example. minor violations of the law or if they do not meet any requirement for working or losing the rights to get help or something like it - they are easier to abuse them. It is easier to abuse people in such a situation. This is one of the reasons why I personally believe that to reduce such problems and situations of oppression, people should be motivated and made easier to act in general without being intimidated by the authorities or afraid of any consequences of being candidly exposed to the authorities. This includes the link I have actually mentioned here in connection with another matter, the link between reducing the level of oppression and the degree of oppression between individuals on the other hand and general liberality. I'm just saying that freedom isn't just good for some romantic idea. It's not just dancing naked in the rain that's great about freedom. Freedom is also good because it reduces the ability of individuals to oppress one another. That's why we're supposed to be liberal, the lawgiver, and we're supposed to have laws that are as liberal as we can get away with. However, we also need to understand and discern where the responsibility lies. For example, we should not lay responsibility for their offenses. We are to hold the bacteria responsible for it. [[The president calls.]] That's what makes this bill, and that's why I'm on it, but I'm sorry there's more to check on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u30	Madam President. We're here to discuss the changes to the common penal law, the man's law. This is a two-change process according to this bill on 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a penal law. As the bill says, the definitions are being adjusted and the wording is made more accurately. It is designed to strengthen human law code and is one step in the efforts of the Lawgiver to strike a armored city for victims of human halls that may appear in various forms. The story of the law, 227. a, the past decades have been a history of change. This law was first set in 2003. It was meeting a Protocol to the United Nations Convention against internationally organized offenses, i.e. The Palermo deal, and fight and punish for business with people, especially women and children, as an article in the Palermo book. This law has been changed since 2009 and 2011, and we are here looking forward to another change in the bill. I think it's a good change. It is attracted to man's penal sensitivity, particularly in order to improve the protection of victims even more so and to facilitate a lawsuit against those responsible for these violations. These changes are particularly leading to the development of corresponding legislation in other parts of the North countries. A GREA report in Iceland, the European Parliament and Council directives to prevent and fight against human trade and the protection of tolerance. Also, the 1930 International Jobs Agency's approval of forced labor, validated in 1958 by the Icelandic government, and of the 1993 International Jobs Agency's approval of the removal of forced labor, validated in 1960 by the Icelandic government, as well as the accounting for the implementation of forced labor, has been agreed by the European Commission from 2014 as validated by the Icelandic government in June 2019. It can also be said that the United States was late. The government was late. The Palermo deal is from 2000, and it's also a book. The northern countries soon embraced themselves. During 2004, 2005, and 2006, the entire North countries had validated this agreement, but Iceland did not until nearly a decade after the Palermo deal was approved. We were a little late and we're a little late to take action on these matters, that's right. Hopefully there will be a change. There I would like to mention our contribution to this legal group, which is the Central Party report request to the Minister of Justice, at the highest level. Minister of Justice is required to comment on government and government measures due to the rise of organized crime in Iceland, which has been discussed in the state police analysis reports for the second decade without our failure, at least not enough, at least not in the way it would have been necessary. This disaster has only increased in spite of the fact that the intelligence department is in a number of reports, from the beginning of the 2007 department, warning of this danger that we are facing. This was done by a 2015 report, with a 2017 report, and finally by a report of 2019, where the risk of the disaster of organized crime groups is deemed massive. The risk has increased year by year, and the rise of these groups has been very high in this country, but the word has been spoken for faint ears, most of it. The media has, with this request for a report to the highest level. Minister, request the highest. Ministers will report to the council what has been done, as well as what governments intend to do about this crisis. We feel that the evidence is so great that there is a serious problem with discussing that there will be no more pleasure and that people will not be able to sit around and see this even more. One feature of our report request, submitted a few weeks ago, and unanimously agreed that this report would be made, the "F" needed to get the highest request. Ministers report specific matters to the General. It was listed as being of action and that it will be reported to the council. The "F" team is asked whether there were measures to prevent people who seek international protection in Iceland, because of their poor social standing, from being abused and oppressed by various ways, such as a human dealer, or what measures are planned to counteract them. Madam President. It might be said that the sentences of the rules discussed here, i.e. Where laws are being strengthened, strengthen the laws of law, is part of working against them. That's right, Madam President, but better, if possible, because the police call for a complex operation. The strength of lawyers is certainly one of them, but there is much more to be done, e.g. The police need to be strengthened, given the authority, the weapons, which are enough to counter this, e.g. research warrants, equipment and legal authority to counteract this problem. This is certainly part of it. I'm not going to go directly into the expressions of these regulations, the human laws, but there they are just making the word more specific. A- team 1st. The bill is strengthening the introductory language of the law and endeavoring to cover the wide variety of forms of a manal house, which may be, as is stated in the 1st, to misuse people, to abuse another man in prostitution or in other sexual ways, to exploit humans in forced marriages, to abuse people in slavery or slavery, to abuse people for forced labor or forced service, including the misuse of people to beg, or to misuse people to commit criminal action. It's described in exactly the bill, which I'm not going to read here, Madam President, in what it can be, how it's done. This is being strengthened. On page 18. 10 in the 2019 diagnostic department report on this point, i.e. the manal hazard, says, with permission of the President: ▪ In Europe's largest cities, criminal groups associated with certain ethnic fragments are prominent in organized prostitution. - Wingism is often considered a man's form. - The Albanians and Albanian groups are very important in this regard. The groups involved in many other criminal activities in Europe, such as dealing drugs, money thefts, and organized theft. By forcing refugees into crime, those who are actually responsible for organized crime can reduce their own risk. The report goes on to say: Information suggests that organized prostitution has increased here in the country over the last three years or so. The report of the analysis department in 2015 included: it was shown that this trend was involved in the growth of the nation's economy. The police believe that part of this operation, at least, is linked to foreign organized crime groups, which may again depend on the assistance of people and their facilities on the land. Street prostitution is not much in Iceland, but prostitution sells. magazines in close groups, such as drug trade. During the past few years, there has been a growing number of prostitution advertising on Internet sites and community centers directed in Iceland. The report goes on to say: ▪ Mansal takes on the following factors: - Getting people, moving them, delivering them, hosting or taking over. - Illegal forcedness, depravity, threats, illegal deception. - Sexual abuse, forced labor, organ resection. Go on says: ▪ Available data suggests that Iceland is the destination for human halls, especially construction halls, restaurants, and tourism. The report of the diagnostic department then reviews the statistics of the head of state law on man's affairs from 2015 to 2020. It says that 74 human affairs came into the table of the police and touched 88 individuals, but only one of the 74 cases went into a lawsuit. Less than half of them were investigated or investigated, but in most cases, or 38, an announcement was followed by observation and not started. No observation or investigation was made in some cases due to insufficient data. Then the report says, Madam President: The foreign route shows that victims are not the only ones to go to the police. This is the point. Mansal is essentially a sin that is very secret. Mansal is by nature also a minor offense that is not charged. Most people don't care much. Mansal is also a violation of violations of violations, or the offender who is abused often does not want to express himself or even deny the offense. So, Madam President, this is a difficult time to investigate. Now I'm rereading my report: Thus, scholars may have limited information value for the potential range of mansal areas in the country. - Exactly. Hence, most of the information and clues based on, not on a number of criminal cases. Then, with permission: ▪ An illegal transport and smuggling of people are involved in organized criminal organizations. National crime groups that have settled in many European countries are very active in this area. Police data indicate that foreign citizens have been exported to Iceland in an organized way to receive man trade and abuse. In 2018, a extensive human physiotherapy began. It seems that a foreign person has organized people across borders around the world and has finally moved to Iceland. I'm going to open this reading, but I'm going to finish my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u31	Madam President. I believe this matter is very much needed and good and very good. We are discussing this in the same situation as the nation is waking up to the fact that they live in what might be called a changed reality in their country. We have reports of a tragic event in the city, and police are reporting the conflicts of organized crime groups. The police tell us in the news that there may be 15 people, perhaps a number that varies. Police are telling us that there may be 30 people involved in the crime in each group. The police inform us in their reports that Iceland can be the destination for lawbreaker users. Madam President. The report that follows the bill that the battle against the human race is a joint project of nations and is specifically cited at the United Nations level on November 15, 2000, for a contract against international organized crime and is referred to as the Payermo Convention. On that same day, the General Assembly adopted a special account of the agreement to prevent, eliminate, and punish for human halls, especially women and children. There's talk of the Palermo Protocol in that regard. The reason is that the contract presents basic measures needed to prevent international organized crime, and it presents specific measures for the battle against the man - made trade. As we have seen, in this case, for the final speech. The speaker, the Icelandic government, was not quick to validate the contract and the booking. On the part of the Icelandic government, the contract and book were signed in December 2000 but were not validated until 10 years later, in 2010. The report explains how combating an individual in the European Council is being undertaken. It is the basis of a contract for anti-Man trade, which was proposed in 2005 to be in force in 2008. This European Parliament is supported by the Palermo Protocol. The report we have in front of us says that it has a much more detailed value on human halls within a country as well as on a multinational human hall. Furthermore, it still counts regardless of whether an organized crime group is behind a man - made body or not. However, the report says that the Palermo Protocol is based solely on man-sales that occur between countries through organized fracture groups. We learn in the report that the European Parliament contains laws on several things not found in the Palermo Protocol, such as the regulations for expert protection and information protection and legal requirements. The European Commission also stated that in February 2012 the European Parliament's contract was validated by the European Parliament. In addition, the report on the actions of the Icelandic government against human sales points out that the European government introduced the first panoramic action programme against the mansalist in March 2009, and it was due to the end of 2012. Then the government introduced other such measures, and it was due to the end of 2016. It is then noted that a minister of judicial matters presented the issue of government action against a man - made dealer and other practical measures in March 2019. The report says that there have been a number of primary measures to prevent prevention, secondly to protect violations, thirdly to investigate and application for human halls, and fourth, cooperation and consultation within the country and internationally in this field. It also states that one of the activities presented in March 2018 is particularly focused on reevaluation of laws, regulations, and administrative directives in the field of mansalium, which says that this bill is a part of that work. Of course, Madam President, it's fine that the legal ground is being reinforced, as is here endeavoring to do with this needs and a good bill. It is also attributed to the report, and very illuminating, that there is a specialised European expert group on human action. This team of experts is characterised by the abbreviation GRETA. The task force has visited Iceland on two occasions according to its role, to monitor whether Member States meet their obligations according to the contract in an adequate way. It is reported that two reports were published by this panel of experts, and it is specifically referred to as a clue or, rather, a criticism of the arrangement here. The report says that the criticism was not a requirement for an underdeveloped marriage, a forced belt, or a pressured crime in Icelandic human law. It continues to take into account these indications of the specialist group called GREA in this bill, and it is good to know. The report is allegorically referred to the warnings and tips given by the police, especially by reference to the date of May 2019 state police investigation. According to one report, there are many evidences that prostitution has increased in this country and that part of it has to do with foreign groups of crime groups. The president's permission goes on to say: Then there is evidence that Iceland is the destination for human halls, especially construction halls, restaurants, and tourism. There is also evidence that foreign citizens have been exported to the country in an organized way to receive man trade and mismanagement. These are very strong words, Madam President; foreign citizens moved to the country in an organized way to put up with man peddlers and abuses. The report goes on to show that - and this is a direct reference, with permission from the president's permission: ▪...a large increase in the number of trustees increases the risk of man traders, where their poor social standing makes them dependent on the abuse and oppression. Also, looking at reports from state police authorities, which are few and are quoted in a more precise way than I have the opportunity to do this here, it may be seen that until 2015, human halls were mainly seen in connection with prostitution and sex services, than in 2015, which is then some kind of vendery year in these materials, would be a change in the fact that more manorization programs, such as a trade hall, especially in the construction industry, restaurants, and tourism, are being observed earlier. And there's some other: 'Counsels and carriers on drugs.' There are things that have been done. Police officials have been issued instructions on human operating procedures. The report attributes the 2010 State Marshal to produce literature under Mansal ◯ Information and Police Work Programme. This should take into account man's investigation. These instructions have been updated, that was done in 2020, and done even more accurately. Says it's a testimony to the increased emphasis on this department in the police department. Then we will discuss the implementation of the man's standard, and it would be interesting to review it. So, Madam President, I'm going to see if I don't have to come back for a second talk to discuss that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u32	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a very important matter about human halls. I'm doing this for the first time in the Hall of Congress, even though we're in the last phase of the discussion. At first glance, I would like to say that this is a pretty good thing to do. The purpose of this change is well considered right now, as explained in the report with the bill. Looks like they've done a pretty good job. Changes in the law of the general penal law of human law are being referred to in accordance with legal development elsewhere in the North countries and, of course, with regard to international covenants and GRETA statements, as noted, the European Council of Experts on human action. This tells us that there is an urgent need to keep an eye on evolution. It is claimed that a criminal organization is always ahead of the legislator, so it does not help us to be a bit of aggressor in this regard. Surely you can agree with the words that appear on the bill, that the struggle against the humanist we strive to remain in is the joint work of all the countries of the world. There's no other way to look at it. It has been a number of years since, in the year 2000, that a U.S. U.S. embargo was approved against a U.S. man - made U.S. legislator, who has often been a good guardian of good and important matters, and against the international crime that is natural. It was called the Palermo deal. In addition, a special publication was adopted to prevent, eliminate, and punish men's halls. Again, there are women and children in what is the most sensitive position. So we're on the other hand with the Palermo deal, and then the Palermo Protocol, which's the understatement. The treaty was signed in 2000, and we Icelanders met to validate the agreement in 2010. As mentioned in talks, it's a little late, but that's how things are now sometimes. The Council of Europe has had a good look at this, and we have followed through. But we've been at a low level, and I'd like to say, and I've followed very closely over the years because the state police department has repeated, even yearly, reports on the situation in broad context. It tells you that people do their job really well. In this bill, we are also counting on prevention. It is of utmost importance, and it is almost good for us to pay attention to mentioning prevention in this regard. The protection of violations is being discussed, and it is discussed in the case of a man's prosecutor. Of course, we're here on cooperation. It must be a very good and effective cooperation, since this is a global problem. All I want to do is enter a chapter about the GREA group, which is a group of experts who have given a number of states to guide and take out the methods, procedures and regulations we are, for example, in particular. ... herein Iceland. GRETA has produced a report both to Iceland and to other countries, where this evaluation is introduced. There are two reports that are particularly relevant to Iceland. The first was published in 2014 and the second was published in 2019. The report that later made it particularly critical that there is no mention of forced marriages, forced harnesses, as mentioned here, or the forced violation of human law. These points are taken into account in the bill. It's very good in my opinion if things can work so that experts come with tips, and so is the lawgiver, including the European Commission, which presents issues that take into account this expert advice. It also includes the evaluation of the State Marshal of Crimes and especially the one we call organized offenses. The U.S. Marshal's office set up a special field of diagnostics and began to operate in 2007 and has observed how this has been developed. The department has published a report almost annually evaluating the measures taken and how society has developed. And speaking of this development, it is the first time in a report published in 2015 on the work hall. It is put in a special category on human affairs. There was hardly anything about working room until then, which tells us that there are always new ways to break people's hearts, just to profit. First, organized prostitution was discussed. At times, it has been associated with so - called poles raised on land that crime groups could first take root. Surely, it is the right thing for those who know how to say it. A new report from the 2019 State Marshal's Intelligence Department says that organized prostitution has increased here and that part of it has to do with organized crime groups. Iceland is one of the main destinations for human sales. That fact alone is not particularly good. It also discusses construction halls, restaurant drivers, and tourism. It's fine that it comes out and is mentioned this way in the bill, and it shows that people are watching. It also discusses that foreign citizens have been exported to the country in an organized way to receive man - made sale and abuse. The report of the diagnostic department is quite black, and it can be accessed on the site. And there are a few, the reports. I've only looked into this report, from 2018, and I have to say that it contains very detailed and well discussed the situation and how we can behave. It is also discussed that the growing number of trust seekers increases the risk of man traders, I want to agree with it, just as a large growth in the construction industry will promote a construction hall that is related to the construction industry. I would also like to say that the growth of tourism could increase this danger. So it goes beyond that. In the news not too long ago, e.g. They were discussing how people were invited to sell money out of insurance companies, just by driving on lamp posts and then going and getting insurance benefits. Would that not be part of the problem in the next diagnostic report? This bill also discusses other legislation in the North countries. It speaks of legislation in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Finland. Then, when it comes to saying that we've been pretty late to validate our part in the Palermo deal and the Palermo Protocol because Denmark validates its contract and accounting 2003 and it seems Norway has been the same year. Sweden validated the accounting and the contract in 2004. Finland was in the same place, validated the Piermo Convention in 2004 and then the 2006 accounting, so we're on a similar level. But it is quite clear that the progress of the law below is certainly in harmony with the change in society, and we can choose to say better or sadly depending on how we view this trend. I just want to give a direct quote here, with president's permission, because I think that's very important: This bill suggests a change in 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a is subject to human penal sensitivity in order to further improve the protection of the victims and to facilitate a lawsuit against those responsible for the fractures. In particular, the development of legislation elsewhere in the North countries, another GRETA report in Iceland, the European Parliament and Council 2011/36/EU to prevent and fight and protect ments and the approval of the International Employment Agency, no. 29 From 1930 on forced work (National Release), validated in 1958, and No. 105 from 1957 on the removal of forced labor, validated in 1960 by the Icelandic government, as well as the accounting for the Agency's release of forced labor from June 11, 2014, as validated by the Icelandic government in June 2017. This makes me feel that I am the key to the matter, so it is important to make this statement specific. Another good thing to see is that there has been an active consultation with the people involved. It is also noted that from January 28 to February 4, the bill was followed by no reports of it. It tells me that the bill is working well, so I'm not going to try to find any more material that says something against it, because it seems to me that this case is especially successful, so it's supposed to trust a rather protective person, especially women and children, and that's the big thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u33	Madam President. I've been involved in this case in the past and discussed more about a report made by the state police chief on the sort of instructions and procedures for the police and the information on human halls. The report is very informative, and I discussed it in my final talk. But I'd like to state that I'm celebrating this bill. It's a step in the right direction, and we in the Central Party support it. But all I wanted to do was enter whatever we can do as a community in order to get rid of the organized human criminal activity. It's a very informative essay at the University of Iceland, by Dagratta Blöndal, which is entering. With the permission of a president, I'm going to grab only a few points in that fine essay and encourage senators to study its contents, where it is a very good summary of man's activities and how it has increased in recent years. Now it is time for organized crime involving human halls to become one of the three largest international crimes after drug and weapons sales. This is, as we know, a violation of human rights in which individuals are forced into a function or service which they have not approved. Since human halls are usually hidden, I mentioned in my last speech that it is often difficult for law enforcement to determine if a person is a victim of a human hall. That may be a problem. Therefore, the U.S. Marshal's report, on police instructions and procedures, is very helpful because it is difficult to identify who are its victims. Those who practice human halls prey on their victims around the world. They find the people they lure into some kind of activity that turns out to be just criminal activity and human halls. These are usually individuals of lower social classes and traders often carry victims far from their own homes and usually into countries where they sell their victims, e.g. In prostitution. The more human knowledge is gained, the better the more the government works against a man - made dealer, the more successful it is to get this complete picture of the scope of mansalion and to stop this activity. After all, human halls are nothing more than modern slavery. This is an operation where human rights are violated and behind these crimes are criminals who take advantage of people's poverty and lack of protection. In many cases, those who become wealthy are seeking a better life, a better standard of living, a life of poverty, and an attempt to create a better future and a better life. They are lured into this activity by promises, deception, fraud, forcedness, use of force, threats, and abuse. It's obviously very sad, Madam President, to see people being fooled in this way, using all kinds of frauds, people who are just trying to find a better life span. Therefore, all of us are to unite in this, and the common people need to be alert to the evidence that human halls are taking place, working against this crime. With internationalisation, population migration has increased dramatically, and poor people living in areas where there is high resolution often have no choice but to look for jobs outside their own country, especially where unemployment is high and poverty is abundant. The main human tolerance is women and children who are usually pressured into sexual slavery. The victims experience physical, mental, and sexual abuse caused by the doer. It may be difficult to understand this and to understand why a person does not escape such a situation. Then we must keep in mind that this is a well - organized criminal activity in which the people of the world use the victims of oppression, i.e. They oppress them with discretion and obedience. We have to figure that out. In order to understand what it is, human halls need to understand its roots and the way it is built. There is a lack of knowledge of the man traders, both those who could help and the common people. The general public lacks knowledge and help. I believe that a significant improvement has been made in this country, with specific police regulations. However, we need to make sure that the police have the funds and support they need to fight this crime. I believe that, Madam President, I hope that Iceland will be at the tip of the battle against man trade. We have recently completed our session at the United Nations Human Rights Council, doing excellent things to show what we are able to do on a global scale and listen to us. Although we are a small country, I believe that we are a great international country when it comes to peace and human rights, sexual equality, etc. We have the opportunity to speak up, and we should take advantage of every opportunity to do so. I came into it in my last speech that we should take advantage of the situation we have in developing cooperation with countries that are our partners there; Malawi, Uganda, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. We need to promote that a single kind of human hall is being practiced in these countries, that is baby marriage, and that is so natural violence toward girls, maiming of women's genitals, etc. We're supposed to make all of this known, and we're going to keep an eye on the fact that the disaster is being overcome. Improving this knowledge with the police and the public would help governments as well as others in the community to identify those who are resistant and who are the cause of man's destruction. The demand and possibility of financial gain are the factors that maintain the man - made trade. Therefore, general education is so important in reducing the demand. This problem is international and we know it, and that's why I celebrate this bill. It is a step in the right direction for us to stick to our commitment and show by our actions that we are fighting against the calamity of human beings. Because the world's governments have to work together effectively in this struggle, international covenants are very important in this regard. They are naturally trying to prevent, punish, and eliminate this organized crime. However, these international agreements commit countries to combat human halls and to promote cooperation between governments, partners, and governments. We're supposed to do this internationally. We are to ask questions, how countries are fulfilling these covenants. It's just that it's not enough to sign any international agreements or agreements to fight something and then not tell the story anymore; just one pen's signature, and then nothing more. This needs to be followed. You have to follow through on what state you're doing in order to fight against a man - made dealer. We have this scene, e.g. The United Nations General Assembly to promote what state is doing in order to fulfill the agreements they have signed to fight the human race. These things have to be kept under surveillance all the time. Well, that's the way it is, isn't it? This has been discussed in every song of activity and service the way that human halls operate. In Western Europe, if we look there, women's use of prostitutes and sex slaves is increasing rapidly, unfortunately. That's what they're talking about in Global Report, an international agency that's monitoring. with these issues, that women and children are being transported mainly to the point of using them in a sex - market, but as a result of their work, human trafficking has increased rapidly and mainly in construction. A person's primary reason for becoming a victim of a human hall is poverty. For those who suffer a material shortage, there is a moving process, i.e. looking for a better quality of life, an appealing option. Trying to improve the standard of living is a bread of emergency, and that is exactly what criminals use. They take advantage of poverty and lack of protection, especially in women and children, in areas where job opportunities are very low and women are lower in society. It is often, then, that foreign women become victims more often, for it is far more difficult to escape in a land where the person does not speak the language and in an environment that he does not know, and there are no people who can help him. There is another factor that increases the likelihood of a man - made dealer, and that is war. Warfare, in turn, increases the demand for sex service. It's just a fact. Women are sent to soldiers for fun, unfortunately. They're bought by soldiers for entertainment. There are a lot of these things that are very hard to read about, that you can read stories, that you must say right now, it takes on you. I see time is up. I would like to continue talking about this, if Madam President would like to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u34	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the change to general penal law, about mansal. It's a bill to celebrate, and we've been discussing quite recently. As mentioned in the speech of the last speaker, poverty is the main reason why people get bored in these paths. It is eager to be lured into something by a loud party, not realizing what it is into until it may be too late. In my earlier discussion, I found myself talking about the office of the police and the fact that people are in town. It won't be better by the short work week. The police expressed their concern because more people were needed for work and that they needed funding. The concern of the police is tremendous, including what it says, because it is not equipped to deal with the difficulty of human halls, and it is growing rapidly in an even greater number of countries. The world is shrinking, and somehow international crime is moving around the world and to the north of the world, that may not be a good thing to say, but from here to Iceland. We, who thought we were the innocent Iceland or we were free of this kind, are dealing with this in ever greater measure. That's why this bill is very needed and should be welcomed. Because I was talking to the police, I just wanted to grab a hold of the bill's report, by permission of the president. It says: ▪ The fight against human halls is a joint work of the world's countries. On the scene of the United Nations, the General Assembly adopted a contract against international organized crime (the Palermo Convention). On that same day, the General Assembly adopted a special account of the treaty to prevent, eliminate, and punish for human halls, especially women and children. The contract presents basic steps that are needed for prevention in the battle against international organized crime. The account contains special provisions for the battle against the man - made trade. The Palermograph and the Palermographs were signed by Iceland on December 13, 2000. Then the Icelandic government validated the Convention on May 13, 2010, and June 22, 2010, book. And only forward, by permission of the President: ▪ At the European Council's scene, an agreement on human action was put forth to sign on May 16, 2005. It went into effect on February 1, 2008. The European Parliament supports the Palermography, but there is a much more detailed application within the country as well as a multinational mange. At the same time, it is true whether an organized crime organization is behind or not. In contrast, the Palermograph does apply exclusively to human halls, which takes place between countries through organized fractionary organizations. Then the European Parliament has a set of laws on a number of things not to be found in the Palermography, such as the regulations for expert protection and information protection, and the regulations for the criminal rights of law enforcement. The European Parliament was signed by Iceland on May 16, 2005, or on the day when it was submitted for signing. The Icelandic government validated the contract on February 23, 2012, to be agreed on by the United States. We're talking about a 20-year process that started with this deal. Thus, it has become an international team between countries to deal with the disaster of the human race. It is a gross violation of human rights that we need to build up and be open to how this work is being carried out. There's been a tremendous increase here in Iceland, and we've heard that Iceland could become a destination for perspiration. The increase in the number of prostitutes increases the risk of man trade, as is the case in the construction industry. Careful attention should be given to dealing with those who are working in that industry. As we have seen, human halls are becoming one of the most common crimes in the world, among the three most common. There are very interesting comments on this subject, and I would like to cut down a little bit on the workforce, with the permission of a president, which says: ▪ A hall of employment includes forced labor, slavery, slavery, or other abuse of labor [...], according to the 1st sentence. 1.mg. Twenty-seven. a. The bill is clearly laid down for forced labor, slavery, and slavery. However, the wording does not appear in the wording of the law itself. The definition of the term "work site" thus goes further in the explanation of the provision of a report than in the terms in the bill itself. - That's what they're pointing to. The Management Board considers it desirable that the term work room in the bill's penalty code is clearly defined and consistent between the wording of the law and its explanation in a paper with the bill. Thus, the workforce suggests that this harmony will be ensured and that the word "accompaniment " will be more clearly supported by the law and will be better defined in its explanation. It is also important to consider whether work under unscrupulous working conditions, which include: In that case, the health and safety of an tolerated person will be put to death, provided that this is done for profit, and that other conditions of the law are met. And there is an example in this context. It is also of great interest that the work force wants to see if the circumstances of those who do the various work can be considered acceptable. This is a review from the Foreign Institute, and it says about an underdeveloped marriage, with the permission of a president: A U.S. National Institute of Foreign Services notes that the concept of a forced marriage is not defined in the bill or other Icelandic law No. 80/2016 or marriage law No. For example, 31/1993. Despite evaluating whether or not an underdeveloped marriage is being asked for a general law of justice No. 19/1940 is desirable for the term to be defined. Among other things, there is a need to distinguish between a suitable couple or a preconceived set of guidelines that are practiced in some cultures and that have not been considered to violate Icelandic law. Finally, it would be normal to conform to the English word used in the comments [...] such as forced persons to beg, forced to marry against their will, or forced to carry out a criminal action that is to be made clear to any kind of action. They want a more specific definition of that. These are interesting tips. It is all too often that you have heard of an underdeveloped marriage that hopefully is not common, though. One such marriage is, naturally, too much. Then there's a review from Iceland's Human Rights Office and if I can cut it down a little bit, with the permission of a president. ▪ In terms of a bill report and comments on the provision of the bill, MRSI considers helpful information and explanations that can be made easier and easier to prosecute and conviction in human affairs. These include the review of the definition of a man dealer and the list of cases relating to actions, such as denying drug abuse for the next dose, etc. It also points to evidence that foreign citizens have been brought in an organized way to the country to serve as traders and refer to the poor social status of candidates for international protection, as well as to traveling workers and foreign citizens. Is it well, since there are practical situations in which people who come here on their own or as such are practical? au-pairs, students or even on family agreements and so it is important not to look entirely at organized imports of foreign citizens for practical purposes. So it is of many interest to look into this matter and read these reviews. Then there's quite a review of development aid, but since I see that my time is running out, I have to step in on it in the next talk and I want to pray to the top. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u35	Madam President. It is commendable that this bill is presented, in order to support violations of human rights, and to clear and sharpen speech that can result in legalizing those who practice such things. I would like to quote this talk several times in a BA report from anthropology in 2012, by Stefán Stefánsson. When discussing the definition of the man-selling, it says here, by permission of the President: When it comes to carrying people in an irregular way between countries or regions, there are many methods. People are promised a better job in a new place, a better life, and a fake. In some cases and in some camps, it is more affordable for an illegal immigrant to work than for unskilled persons or people with limited education often seeking jobs that do not require special education. One thing that encourages human beings is pornography. It has been observed, as it is well known, that with the Internet the availability of pornography increased dramatically. As everyone knows, as the availability increases, as the supply increases, pornography becomes more and more graphic and includes. to a much greater degradation of those affected by fractures, i.e. especially women and children. This essay says, by permission of the president: But with all its advantages, there are also a number of disadvantages on the Internet. One of these is pornography. Pornography can develop in various ways and differs from what people consider pornography or what they do not. In the brochure Pornography (mars 2012), pornography is defined as an open subject of words or pictures with a clear command and subjugation as a culture process in which pornography plunges into our day - to - day lives that approved and even admired cultural phenomena. Here is a study from 2012. Then it says: Pornography has increased, and more is becoming the focus of demeaning participants. The Internet also contains an enormous amount of advertising from companies offering a variety of sexual and escort services [...]. What marks the use of the Internet in the pursuit of pornography is anonymity, but in the pages that offer such material, it is usually not required to register with the right name. Mansal, often likened to modern slavery, is now the third most profitable form in the world after the arms trade and drug trade. Thus, human halls in themselves are organized, organized by gangs of crime. In this excellent essay I have been witnessing, people are often deceived to cross the border with a promise that they will have a better life on the other side of the border. In many cases, the person who is personally transferred, or the criminal or criminal organization who carries the person from one country to another, pays the cost but later collects it. It was not until 2002 that human halls first appeared in a public discussion in Iceland. I said it here in a speech the other day that it seemed like, as with many other things happening in the world, that the Icelanders often wanted to put their heads in the sand, falsely claiming that such things and things like that were not going to happen here in Iceland. But, of course, it's an illusion, Mr. President, unfortunately. According to BA report, when people are being transferred, they are often the focus of rich countries where the sex industry is large or where prostitution is either legal, or where there is much tolerance to it. We are naturally in Iceland's position to say that prostitution is not illegal, but buying prostitution is illegal. Unfortunately, the number of human sales matters in Iceland seems to have increased very fast, especially as demand increases, including followed by the pornographing that took place here. This is the way it happens, and this is what we all know, that the leading victims of human halls, e.g. Where there is prostitution, there are women and children. Last year, it was likely that following war battles at the Mediterranean level, tens of thousands of children are on the move through Europe alone, thus providing easy targets for the use of waste. It is naturally very serious that efforts are not made to unite families more after the wars there have been fought because, as always, conflict breaks out, it is women and children who become the first and most victims. It says here in this essay, with permission of the president: ▪ In definition of a man - made dealer, the situation of the victim must always be considered, but more often than not bad. In addition, there is always the possibility that an individual's rights are not violated at the destination, so human halls cannot be talked about at all times. It's not a simple matter to find out. It also says, by permission of the President: ▪ When dealing with irregular migration, they are often defined in two different ways. First, when people are smuggled between countries and second, when people are sold from abroad or within the country. There are two methods, if we can put it that way, so that people can benefit from the plight and evil conditions of the people for their own benefit and even for their own benefit. That's why it's not that it's unforeseeable that this bill is here and I'm celebrating it. But it is clear that we need to be on guard. There's one thing we have to try to block by some means, i.e. to control the pornography wave that now crosses the Internet, and especially over the Internet, because it is a very serious matter when entire generations of young men grow up looking at what they visit online, and some of them may be normal, that sex should be the way it appears on the Internet. Far from it, though. So it is not that this bill is submitted by unforeseeable Mr. President. A side effect of this porn wave is that here in Iceland is, for example, an example. increasing the number of situations that many people encounter, saying: The population population population population is growing here, so all of this has an enormously bad effect. There is no question that these events, whether in rape cases, I do not talk about group rape or ment, destroy the lives of victims for a short or long time, and at worst, have led to the death of the victims, often in their own hands. That's more than tears, Mr. President. The good news, then, is that police authorities and the highest authority. Minister of Justice has stressed support for that department of police here, e.g. in the capital area, where sexual abuse is involved. But then we come to another, Mr. President, who we Middle Classes have given much emphasis to each of the budgets in the last four years. It is to strengthen the police, support or secure the security of Iceland's border because of the fact that the police are underseat, as they really are now here, e.g. in the capital area, and throughout the country indeed, it cannot function as it should. It was found that those who negotiated the workweek shortening of the workforce, all the way around the state, did not seem to realize that the initial workweek's shortening would cost money, and secondly, it would require an enormous increase in the population, especially when shift workers are involved. We have heard this lately, called from the police, and from medical institutions, that there is a need to hire a considerable number of people. In some areas, such as in some clinics, it is heading for the summer when the work is going to be in serious trouble. It's headed for trouble. So in order to stop this, we must, along with this excellent bill, take steps to prevent people from being sold into this country, either in prostitution or in a business hall, as well as in public knowledge. An emergency must be avoided in ensuring borders and ensuring police and other authorities, customs and others, the necessary resources to prevent this. What we middle class have been offering in this regard, both in the case of illegal immigrants and those of the trustees, as well as on the border, has been called terror. It has been called "an alien dissension. " But there's no such thing going on, Mr. President. What's being pointed out is simply how things are right today or how we are, Icelanders, today as far as we have to do and what we have to do to prevent people coming in here that we can't see decently. It is that we cannot strengthen it to communicate with the society in which we live. That is why we need to control ourselves the number of people who seek and organize it as other nations have begun to do. But I see my time is up, Mr. President. However, I am not close enough, so I pray that they put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u36	Mr. President. We have returned to discuss this fine case from the Minister of Justice, who is being taken through the council. I would like to thank a minister for putting on this expedition in which specific adjustments are being made to explain the concept of human halls and other matters that we often discuss so that no one can question what is meant in the law. This is written by an expert in criminal rights at the request of a minister and should be welcomed with special attention. This has been discussed with a man - made dealer, who is very normal in view of the seriousness of selling people into slavery, no matter what their situation, whether he is in need of work or not. Sadly, those who are most vulnerable may be at the greatest risk of being loved by the human race. The bill does well with regard to the process in which this case was written and in some cases. An expert on how to negotiate it, reviewing what the United Nations has concluded in recent years. It is written in the so - called Palermo deal of the 2000 UN Protocol. It is very important to bear in mind that this is such a problem that the United Nations has decided to act on it, and therefore the Icelandic government, since the year 2000, when they signed the contract. In fact, they validated him ten years later and the booking. The European Parliament has also been very active in these matters. Over the years, we Icelanders have been well represented, both representatives of the Generals and, of course, the European Commission. It is important that we continue to be active in the area where human rights need to be taken care of, especially, in combating crimes that occur when humans take advantage of people's plight. The Icelandic government introduced the first operation program more than ten years ago, 2009, of course, until the end of 2012. Then another program was introduced to 2016, and then a minister gave us the focus of the current government on March 29, 2019. It is also important to recognize that mansal, some form of slavery, or what we call slavery, is a money exchange for criminal and criminal organizations, especially for those who are involved or part of organized crime, where people's weaknesses and their systems are being used, by selling people ideas of a better life that proves otherwise unproved, by holding people in bondage, or by any form of depravity that these criminal organizations allow. The bill considers something, but not necessarily very deep, about the government police assessment of organized violations. Of course, organized crime has an impact here in Iceland, just like anywhere else. Sadly, we see a very unpleasant trend in our neighboring countries where the problem increases and increases, and crime increases. Recently, we saw that more people are killed with firearms in Sweden than in other European countries. Who had believed that a few years ago, Sweden, the often so - called exemplary kingdom, would have a situation that could exist in this way? We've begun to see a very unpleasant record in this country of our uncle's country where some thousand Icelanders live regularly. Learning from this is very important for us. We need to learn how the Swedes have come through all of this, that the community has gone that way. We must not compromise, we are afraid to take that discussion, and we should ask ourselves, " Can evolution become similar in Iceland and, of course, react to it? ' It is of great importance that our analysts, whether there is a diagnostic department at the State Marshal's office or anyone else, have the tools and resources to offer tips on how we can react to not landing on the same route as our cousins and friends in Sweden. A report from 2015 from the State Marshal's diagnostic department is, for the first time, discussing the work hall as a special category of human sales, perhaps telling us that it has increased, that there is a reason to take it out specifically in this way. The latest report, which I studied in just a previous discussion on this subject, says that there are many indications that organized prostitution has increased considerably, and this has been linked to organized crime groups. In that case, the bill and the State Marshal's report specifically suggest that Iceland is the destination for a planned man-sale, and that the damage is immediately involved. No doubt there are reasons behind such things or that lead to such an outcome. Let's watch, for example. ... ontheworkforce. Because of lack of labor, gangs, crime groups, and ways of exploiting it, as those reports show. How important it is that we also look at how we can try to prevent offenders from coming here! I'm going to allow me to tell gangs, we're being used by gangs, and that's, like, an informative word, but I think most people who break laws in some way are now criminals or criminals. I think it's very important to look into it, while we're discussing this bill and hopefully agree eventually, to explain what it is as a human being so that we can reach more people who are being abused in this way. I also believe that it should be supported by our law enforcement agencies in increasing initiative law; I think it's called today; or increased premeditation; in all of this I'm glad they're making some changes. In fact, there is talk that the police will be given increased authority. It's my opinion that it's very important. I think it's better for the police to have the authority to keep a better eye on us than not. Of course, people can ask themselves, " Is there something right in my life? ' But now I choose to trust the police, like most Icelanders, in order to manage my power. Besides, we have a system to monitor the police work, and we may be able to increase it or expand it in some way, and we will discuss it, of course. But it is very important that Iceland's police have the authority to prevent or reduce the risk of such activity or other criminal activity. It is also important that we continue to ensure that our law - enforcement agencies can have reliable and good cooperation with their fellow workers abroad so that information and the kind of information can be communicated about this criminal activity that is truly going on. The bill discusses how the other northern countries have handled human halls and is intriguing. There seems to have been an excellent agreement with the company of the bill, including the U.S. Marshals, State Attorney Generals, local district attorneys, and others listed here, as well as the institutions of the Work Office and then the National Socialist Union of Iceland. It is very important for them to be included, for we know that those who monitor work places or look after the interests of workers are often in a better position than others to observe, reveal, or find that there are problems and other factors when such happens here. I'm going to tell you that it's highly desirable for the workforce to work closely together in preventing a workroom and that I have no faith in anything but that it's all on board, so to speak. Then there are others who have to act in other places. Here I had pointed out that it would have been preferable to use this opportunity to make good use of the measures we want to take to ensure that our law enforcement agencies have tools and tools and authority to carry out the surveillance they think they have to take care of in these dire cases of human affairs. Of course, some are more terrifying than others, but all of it is about the same thing; people are being forced into something they really do not want, or they are being cheated on in some way. Hopefully, this case is just a continuing step toward improving the law on these matters. This needs to be considered as the longest context and to try to connect as much into reality as possible, of course. What do we live for? What dangers exist? What are some dangers of not doing anything? Can we learn from the state of our friends and cousins in the north, e.g. Sweden? Where do they come from, and how are they formed? Why does this huge increase occur in Sweden? I think it's very important to study it and to conduct such tests before the council and the nation so that we can understand whether we can respond in advance in some way. Prevention is always important, and if we have the opportunity to take action before we are overwhelmed as many other nations would be able to do so. Then it is something we must benefit and learn from. It is often said of the Icelanders that they love most of what comes from outside. I think we should also learn them from outside and learn from what others have experienced, for it does not necessarily mean that we will continue in some way that others have gone through. I also want to allow myself to mention a legal program for Iceland adopted in 2012. This was the case with the first circuit overseer in 2012, at the 140th Council, which was adopted and instituted. How intriguing it would be to follow her along! Those who will stand here at the next council will hopefully call for a report of some kind or comparison or overview, a summary of how the legal program has been implemented, what has been carried out, what has been successful, what has been improved, and what has not been done. Doing so may help us to get to the bottom or to see what way we want to go. Are we good enough for the designer? Do we have enough tools and equipment to cope with these challenges? Do we need more authority? Has there been any evidence in the law enforcement program? I think it's very important for us to try to connect these factors with this case. The objective of this bill and others is, of course, very good, but we still have to look into it so big and so many factors that relate to these issues. That's important. Well, the committee's opinion... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u37	The time may have passed, but the timing is out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u38	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u39	Hv. A senator is welcome to make his last words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u40	All I'm asking is to be put back on the rosary, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u41	Mr. President. I was going to complete my coverage of the bill that is being presented where the bill of penance is being added to the penal court, the regulations of 227 a in the penal law. This process is being improved to make it easier to fight a man - made dealer, making it the best thing to do. In fact, the battle against human sales is the common responsibility of all countries of the world because it is a violation of no national boundaries. This on its own makes it harder for police authorities to work against it, but it also makes the victims more vulnerable to it because they are then in even worse circumstances. There is a strange situation, another language, and circumstances that they do not know in a new land. As is often true of human halls, both sex - based and professional halls, the people in a new country are not speaking the language, and that's why these too are difficult. And because it's the common responsibility of all countries, we Icelanders have to do what we do. I pointed to it in my first speech and didn't have the year, but we signed the Palermo deal and the Palermo Protocol by the end of 2000, but we didn't validate the contract until ten years later. This may show how far behind we are because Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland were years ahead of us. They both validated the agreement and the Protocol shortly after the turn of the century, 2004, 2005, and 2006, but we are far behind. That is why it is so important to encourage governments not to get up in this. Of course, this bill is part of it. There's a lot more to go on. According to a 2015 analysis report by the President's permission: ▪ Aggressive and man-to-be could be increased, including in connection with large increases in construction and tourism. Building growth creates a risk of illegal import into workers, and there are cases where the slave of the darkness is involved. Then, four years later, a report by the same agency said: "This seems to have been the case. It came during the day. Mansal grew in the period from the time the report was written in 2015, which shows the danger, to the four years later, 2019 report. It says: The police have strong suspicion of human halls in the areas mentioned and have grown rapidly in recent years also warned that those seeking international protection in Iceland, because of poor social status, may be subjected to abuse and even oppression by various sources. Such abuse is known in neighboring countries, and it is often associated with ◯ black employment. Obviously, such abuse is not limited to those who want international protection. From neighboring countries, women are known to be forced into prostitution and to be organized by a labor hall within the ◯ black economy. This is true of various services, such as massages, cleaning, restaurant work, belts, and pocket thefts. So this shows that we're not waking up. Since 2015, the problem has only increased, as shown in the text that I was reading from the report since 2019. This is not the indication of the analysis section. [[The president calls.]] - I haven't had five minutes, have I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u42	Four and a half minutes. The clock's paralytic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u43	So, Mr. President, do I get to move on for a second?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u44	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u45	It also states in the 2019 diagnostic report: The police estimate is that in this country organized groups of offenders, some of whom have considerable funding and strength, are employed. As groups of these men grow stronger, the police will have to be more difficult to resist. They are better able to hide their tracks and material strength, enabling them to buy expertise and to hide the profit of their business in legal business. [...] The influence of organized crime on society is many and all negative. This is true in terms of the number of crimes, the severity of the crime, the negative effects on business life and employment markets, including the ambiguity of the company's competitiveness and financial resources, the loss of the government, and the loss of income as well as the result of organized violations of violence, which leads to general safety in the community. [...] In addition, the U.S. Marshal's analysis department has also called attention to the fact that organized crime affects the safety level in the country. In a report in 2017, the U.S. Marshal's Analysis Department concluded that the level of risk related to organized crime in the country would be a ◯ high risk. In view of the information being transmitted by the police to the state police investigation, there is reason to be concerned about the situation. The situation of the planned fracture activity continues to worsen, which includes: appears in increasing numbers of accumulated cases and lack of initiative law. In view of this information, the report shows that human hazard level in the 2019 report is not a major risk, as in the previous report, but a high risk. We're always going the wrong way. We're always walking into a worse situation. Just at the end here, Mr. President: It is evident that the legal situation is in a way that her ability to deal with organized wrongdoing is very low. This is serious, Mr. President. And finally, here's what we're going to say: ▪ As discussed on the risk assessment above, it shows that without focus changes there is little chance that significant success will be achieved in combating organized crime in Iceland. I'm letting this be my last word. Police are calling for a change of focus. They've been doing it for years. We have to start responding.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u46	The President's right to a timer is not correct, and the president is trying to alert you as much as he can when the deadline is out, but speech time is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u47	Mr. President. I'll try to bear in mind to have my speech so that it falls within the 15-minute frame, but as we discussed, I might get one dingle when five minutes and 30 seconds remain to help me adjust what I'm going to come on. What we're dealing with in 3rd. is a matter where the main entry is a battle against a human dealer. We've been talking about this afternoon's investigation of the state police department, both the 2017s and the 2019 agents. Other legislation is a basis for the evaluation that the situation is becoming more serious in the case of organized crime groups and their conduct as the years go by and their footprints seem to become safer and more stable in Icelandic society, in Icelandic soil. In my first speech in this matter, I focused primarily on what is called a work hall in everyday speech. There is a wide variety of areas, and it can range from one way or another in working on the debt of the person who has an invitation to them, whether due to the transfer of a family to a family in connection with a flight, whether it is related to the approval of a potential employment permit in a place that would be viewed as a better economic location, we can talk about Iceland in that context, or whatever way it might be. It can, for example, be used. Make it possible for an employer to provide employees with housing and so on. So, of course, there are many things to look at in this regard. Then we have what is often presented in our discussion with a man - made hall, a prostitution, pornography, and pornography. Of course, more than tears are concerned with how the long chapters seem to have been handled and how criminal gangs are involved in this. Sadly, it is the cold reality that confronts us, and we are under obligation to try to fix the rule so that the status of the people in our community will be better than it is right now. I'd like to introduce to the committee a majority of the General and Education Committee under the publications of seven members, including the members of the Central Committee, which is why. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. It in general says under the Commission's discussion, with permission of the president: ▪ It was among the guests that the importance of increasing the rightfulness of the people who are being dealt with as well as the selective treatment of the man - made traders. The importance of the measures taken by government in anti-Man sales measures and other practical measures from 2019 will then be highlighted, as well as the call for a new policy and strategy against human sales. It's a little bit at the same well. The government's emphasis on human rights and other practical measures since 2019 has been only partially developed. I view the committee as encouraging the executives to go to the project and to use the tools and measures laid on the foundation in 2019 C.E. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, It states that the above emphasis from 2019 C.E. was placed on human government policy. In view of the continuation of the battle against the human race, the policy sheet was not set aside for a specific time, but [it] remains until another one is submitted. Thus actions are generally not timed but are timed for certain actions. The majority stress what is stated in the policy document that all operations are expected to be performed effectively and are regularly reviewed for improvement. The committee further encourages the use of the weapons, the methods that are available in the fight against man traders. We are simply under obligation as a community to ensure that the citizens are as freer as regards the provision of their own labor, time, and place. It goes on to say, by permission of the President: THE committee found some comments on the status of human tolerancers. In particular, the importance of appropriate support and management of all cases including taking into account resistance status, such as disability. Then the importance of a state guarantees that its members will not be put in custody when it arrives in the country that is suspected of being victims of human halls. Now I have to admit that I'm talking about this point without making a special study of the reviews. I'd still like to mention it here, and maybe on the day, I'd better have studied this point especially before I mention it here, but I'm still going to allow myself to be, if it's the worst person that comes here to the country, and could be the victim of a human being, it's possible to have a relationship and land in the hands of the police authorities, so to say. The chain that connects the person to the man - made dealer must thus be broken. I may be able to introduce it in my second talk to this discussion. My first feeling is that there could be a violation of this connection that the government, the government, communicates with this potential victim of a human hall. Then there may be some way to break this cord between man trader and oppressor. Then I'd like to come back to what I came on into my first talk, a work hall, in view of the fact that it is introduced into the committee's list of parts. It says, by permission of the president: The handling of the case showed that inconsistencies appeared to be between definitions of the labor trader's text of a-arms 1.g. The bill and the content of the report. A bill report shows that working room covers forced labor, slavery, slavery, or other forms of labor abuse. The law does not contain the word "employmental misuse" and it would also be worth considering whether a job room is also to be part of an unprovable work environment that includes. Risk of health and safety to sufferers As for this, I would like to say in general that we are under obligation as a community to ensure the privileged working conditions of the workers in whatever article they are working for. It is not only human kindness that makes sure that it is, but it is also a matter of market competition and fairness. Companies who use labor in this way have an advantage, let's just say it as it is. They have the advantage of their competitors who pay salary, pension money, and other fees and costs, keep insurance acceptable, work adminently, and so on. The companies who violate their employees in this way are ensuring an advantage that is neither fair, normal, nor the type of society should accept. In this context, we can review a statement relating to the flying environment. Eight European transport ministers recently wrote to the European Commission, where they urged particular attention to be given to the fact that the whole flying sector did not find itself in the position that social substitution and related forwards will be established at the market now when the airport is so much up to get out of the uncertainty state within the rulework, dress, and so forth, which was maintained before the pandemic. Happily, then, when we are getting out of that position, we need to be careful that certain sectors do not have a place for changing ideals and environments. I'll mention the flight as an example, but, of course, it's much more risky in other sectors of employment. Because I have been well acquainted with the art sector, I have often seen issues involved in the unpredictability of employees or debate over how pay should be calculated and what is being observed and what is left out in the streets. All in the same way is the fact that a business's competitiveness is on the market. Corporates that pay their taxes and fees, have a pact with their employees, begin the race in a worse position than those who never intend to pay their dues, whether it is to the government or to their employees. With this in mind, I urge us here at the General Assembly to make sure that there will be no misunderstanding about the fact that Iceland, the Icelandic government, the Allied Council of Iceland, take a man's place, and thus a working hall, a serious eye. A respectable president. I would like to ask how much I have left of my talk period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u48	It's two minutes, two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u49	It's been missed, like, five minutes, unless I haven't heard it. Two and a half minutes, says the top. President. Toward the end of my talk, I just want to reiterate what I said earlier. We are under obligation to resist, as can be, all that is spoken of in the everyday speech of human halls, whether it is a trader or a hall associated with prostitution or pornography or other forms of sex or other, a hall of ment associated with inmates, or whatever it may be at any time. As for the trustees, we do it best by directing those who come here through the global cry-in-the-country system. As regards the work room, we probably do so best by directing our business to the members of our business, who are obligatoryly responsible for society. It may not be that treaties of various government institutions and governments can land at stakes or companies that do not intend to be part of the community in the management of employees. Then there is the matter of pornography and its features that call for another speech. It is more important than tears to see how difficult it seems to hide from these materials at international level. I'm going to close this talk, but I'm going to enter the very marked point of my second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u50	Mr. President. I'm going to make a comment to the environment that we senators now have. The clock in the daemon does not work, the network to show us who is on the string file does not work, the data cannot be downloaded and no print can be printed out. This shows how much we've become dependent on technology here. I wish for a meeting to be postponed so that you can keep a close eye on how the rosary works, where they are in line, to print out the data, and to get some information. I've requested that this be done, and I want the President to be encouraged that we are now interrupting a meeting during the apparent solution to this technological failure. We senators have become so accustomed that we do not have the books needed to look up as they had in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u51	A respectable president. I just want to let myself say the same thing. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, head of the Central Party. It's kind of a monster situation at the Assembly Hall. Before I began my recent talk, I sat in our plural room at a Central Hall and planned to print notes for my talk. But that was not possible, which explains what those watching saw just before when I asked for it. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson saved me on the evidence I wanted here in a pita. So it is kind of ridiculous to continue working under these circumstances. Senators need to be able to download data, because while many of us are properly built up in the head, we need to be able to look into the envelopes and things on the Internet, and it's too hard to find a meeting while this is happening, I'm not even talking about who's on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u52	V.E.G. President. The first thing I want to do is commend a president for facing these pressures because it's not a simple matter. As I can see this, the trouble started when we were paying a vote on my proposal to perform youth service under government custody, which mostly discussed sports companies. I understand that there was a mistake at the vote, that the senators who wanted to support the proposal didn't do it because the tables we're supposed to use were not working. So, of course, I'll agree that we'll all be once and for all to get our system fixed, whether it's out of place or out of place. I even seem to be able to speak here as much as I desire for many minutes without someone being a bell on me, which is actually very good, but it shows how stupid it is to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. At my death, I expected but not that the Central Party would complain that things were like that in 1950. On the other hand, I have full sympathy for their complaints, thinking that there may be others in this house who have problems with this situation. We have many in council rooms, and we are trying to pay attention but do not see what the program is doing. It's a bit of an uncomfortable situation, except that the Internet is down here in the house and there's something else down there. I don't know exactly what the real solution is, but it might be a good idea to take a moment to sort out the situation so that things can work out properly. Although I may have compassion on the Central and other members of the council in this regard, I think my sympathy is the most evident concern of the Generals of the General Assembly, who are now trying to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u54	V.E.G. President. I also come up here like other members of Congress to ask that there be a recession at a conference while these cases are being pulled back. Although I'm now very ancient in my mind and I love everything as old as I am, you're pretty addicted to the Internet, even though it's infested and begging for it to be pulled back. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'd also like to make it a good thing. paritaprevir Kolbrún Árnadóttir Aarnadótir made some adjustment that she had in her youth case, which I know was more and less interested in supporting. But because the side halls were broken, the vote went out a little wide. If that was to be corrected, I am absolutely certain that this adjustment proposal would have been accepted, so I pray that it too will be taken very seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u55	Mr. President. We who have been raised by vertirs and hand-hugging phonographs do not allow ourselves to be shaken technically. I admire the president for maintaining his calmness in these circumstances and in the meeting, despite the technical difficulties here. But then we can't continue a meeting without access to a rosary, without access to information online, and some items that we need to be in touch. That's what I do for the highest. President that he is now posting meetings for a while while men are trying to get to the bottom of this. I've wondered because this lack of nets is also on the other side of the East, so it seems that the Alleglan system is at least a temporary collapse, and I'm going to see a president that he will be meeting us for a while and we'll sort this problem out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u56	A respectable president. It's not a good time for us if we can't hold a meeting without the Internet working. They did that for 150 years. I'm not the only one with the talks. It's better when we're out of the net. It makes sense not to keep track of the computer all the time. I suggest the meeting be held, the highest. President, and the next few days in this form.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u57	A respectable president. I have to say something. The members of the Central Party, which I don't often like to do, but maybe now I'm especially kindly now in the light of circumstances. It's not just that for some 150 years, things were done differently. They are made different now, and now they are not being held by signs that there is no network. We don't have access to a rosary or a schedule - I actually found a program from June 4, which is not updated as perhaps it will be, but we have to make this okay. We have to be able to stay in our offices, in council rooms, and at least keep track of what's going on that we can't see who's on the rosary we don't see next. We should be able to work with the infrastructure that we have for our normal work, except that, unlike what many may think, this hall is not a general labour area. We don't respond to e-mails in general, it's not for that. [[The president calls.]] That's the debate room, the room we use to reason with. We should be able to observe the Senate Hall even if we are working in our offices or in the Houserooms. I agree with the request that a conference be suspended until this is resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u58	A respectable president. It's an interesting scene. This has happened in the past winter and was not requested to be postponed at the council meeting. That's a little interesting. I think it's at least... It's a two-way event, unfortunately. The system has become old as we know it. I was just so happy that, above, we were free of the mollusk one and a half hours compared to the talk file and I was just confident that the Central Party will stand up as it is and stay on the rosary even though we don't see it and continue to talk about this good case, a marriage case that we are here for a discussion that they've been quite honest with, which is good because it's a good case. I was just such a simple woman that I thought at first when the rosary fell down, and then members of the government council had recently met, that something great had happened, and the case was solved because the Convention disappeared. But then I realized that it wasn't so good, so there was more to fall off the screen. It's boring. While it is a challenge for the speaker's list to remain unattainable, the Central Party has been here alone in this discussion, and I'm sure it just keeps going, although there's no hard feelings about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u59	A respectable president. I'm sorry to interrupt this party here, but here it's the real deal. The council has been unplugged. Meanwhile, the council cannot play its own role in keeping watch over counsellors and the government. What is the situation now with the government, with the Department of Social Affairs and Education, who are talking about interconnecting systems, that the systems speak together, especially because of disabled children? They're starting to show up on kids, disabled kids who're graduating from high school, and they don't get in on career courses. Besides, the excuse is that suddenly the river marches are all too crowded. This has been known for 16 years. Where have the ministers been? In this program of Social Affairs and the government for children, disabled children have been forgotten. Today, there are 30 children, young people who have been disabled from birth - not that there are surprises, and it has been known for 16 years that the school system would have to meet these needs - that they will survive. [[The president calls.]] So the council isn't supposed to be active, and can't give it to the government? [[The president calls.]] What the hell is this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u60	The President reminds us that we are here for President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u61	Mr. President. I would like to agree with other members of the council who have praised a president for their atrocious and psychological strength under these difficult circumstances. However, there is a natural trend towards a future meeting in relation to the conditions that have come up here as a result of these technical problems. I want to agree with what. Councilmen who have restated and emphasized it. It says we're discussing something very important here, and this is a case that has to do with the Central Party's presentation on a wide range of fields. No one here has put more emphasis on the fight against organized crime than members of the Central Party. Last of that is the news that we presented a very detailed report request and expect much of it as part of this struggle. Of course, I must also agree with the oar. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that the surveillance role of the Generals does not succeed and does not work as it should. [[The president calls.]] There are now some members of the presiding committee, and I encourage them to make the most of the effort to put off this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u62	Mr. President. Of course, this would not be held if there were some of the technical factors that he could not be asked in the sense that man could deliver his speeches here and the recording system works so that all the gold particles that the members of the Parliament fall here will be preserved on the pages of history, etc. We've been through this in the past winter, and then a foreign discussion was under way, and she continued for quite a while under those circumstances. But it's very unfortunate for this to happen. They're trying to figure it out. It's about to blame the technical failures of our hosts, where there is a currently apparent port connection between the General One and perhaps in this case, but not more people, as the other day happened. They were hoping this would work out right now and they're trying to restart the system. But I hear why. Congress officials say, and I would absolutely agree that it would not be possible to continue with a meeting under these circumstances for long. We were in the middle of the 3rd. about matters, so I might have thought that the talks would be just as good, even if this was done under those circumstances. But let's not be crushing this much down with us, Mr. President, so I'm protested because we'll have a break in the meeting and we'll see. The problem, though, is that it is difficult to determine how far it should be. I'm not ready to write out that we are forced to carry on with our work, even if technology is in vain, but, of course, we need to prepare and plan it better. The spoken word is true, and human speeches are valid, and they will be recorded in history, as previously said. The recording system works, so no courtyards of what is going on at this meeting. But if you have a lot of addiction to being online and getting material in your own speeches, etc., it's something to be taken into account. So my suggestion might be that we have made a half-hour break now and we'll see how things develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u63	Mr. President. Now I don't know if the president of the council had arrived in the hall when it was presented earlier in a talk. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir says that there is a suspicion that there had been a mistake at a vote earlier today while the system was cut off. That's a much more serious thing than being able to communicate here even if we're not in an online relationship. The problem is that there may have been some leads in that direction if a man had access to a screen in a side room, which was not at the time of the voter. This is something that I think we need to investigate because the law we just agreed to was accepted that the adjustment was more efficient than they looked a little different if it had been approved, as indicated by evidence. Other than that, I'm going to thank a president again for the shaken conference management in this situation, but I also point out that we're a little slow from having access to a network. Last thing I'd like to say is I'm grateful for the urgentness of the former debate queen of the council and we'll take it very much to ourselves, the middle-class members, and we'll continue to discuss this fine matter as long as we need to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u64	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and thank the President for responding. I don't think we have to extend anything in particular this discussion here on a meeting board where the President intends to make a half-hour break and thank you for that, that's reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u65	Mr. President. I just want to say two things. On the one hand, it seems to be in shape, and the rosary is also so that what I had most in mind to put is no longer a problem. However, I would like to mention, since there were some who spoke otherwise, that it is not that it is a technical failure that leads to the collapse of all the activities of the council. But when we rely on technology as much as we do, we need to take into account the failures we make. That's why I'm very grateful. President for taking a break. I think it'd be nice to take a short break to make a little bit of room to sort out the last complications. But we have to take it seriously when problems occur, and we should just sit around and work things out. Rather than trying to slow things down, we need to be able to work hard. But it seems to me that things are working out, except for the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u66	V.E.G. President. The power of the President is great where the system seems to be working. But I still wanted to take advantage of this opportunity under the President's meeting board and discuss the non-employmental plan of the Generals, which is now a special comment. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður of hers is about children who are just left behind and who are not allowed to enter high school on a career. I'd like to talk about this in the context of what we were discussing with the consultants and diagnostics, which will be so; this institution will not provide advice for children aged 18 to 24 years, i.e. Young people. I wonder because who should counsel those children and young people who are now left behind and are not going to get into high school? This is a serious situation, and the Ministry of Education and Department of Social Affairs has to answer for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u67	Mr. President. I won't extend it at all. I must agree with members of Congress when they thank the highest degree. A president for his reaction. I must also mention that it needs to be thoroughly examined and fully informed whether something has gone wrong in a vote of change. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir because the result was quite different from what might have been expected. It was suggested that childhood activity, such as KFUM and KFUK and the Union of the Icelandic Boy Scouts, would fall under the payment that has been decided to provide members of the Iceland's National Olympian Association. A complete answer from the Presidency Committee on how this matter is grown and how it can be resolved if it proves to be so that something different occurred for technical reasons. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u68	V.E.G. President. We're moving on here. The clock hasn't started yet. It's known, isn't it? I think I have five minutes here, not 51. Let's get back into this business about human halls. The bill before the council is a very good bill, as we have seen. A report on organized violations has been cited. They are quite many of these reports, and they can well be attributed to community and history, and to what need to be taken when dealing with such a serious offense. The report published in May 2019, page 22. 10 The European crime groups appear to be linked to certain ethnic groups, trades, and prostitution. Special attention is given to Romanian and Albanian groups that are very important in this regard. They organize various criminal activities, e.g. dealing drugs, stealing money, and organized stealing. Apparently, they can easily force refugees to commit crime and actually reduce their own risk. It's a little ugly to read. Since then, prostitution has increased here in the last three years, and it will be uprooted in the nation's economy. What we talked about here and the police have also discussed is that at first it was about growth, e.g. construction projects. Then they took advantage of him to bring his people in. Then there was growth in tourism, and they brought their people in. As a result, growth in the need for international protection may lead to their being too exposed to it. It's all holding hands. In fact, it is vital that we see these factors in this context. This is not necessarily because people are coming here that we don't want to protect them. Rather, we need to be able to see through them and know and realize that these organized gangs will use any interest in growth where they can see the possibility of delinquency. If you go to see what a person will do, i.e. To provide and transport, deliver, warm, or receive, here it says that they are illegally forced and dissuades, even deceptions. It discusses sexual abuse, forced labor, and organ removal. These are big words and big things. The 2019 report also says that Iceland is the destination for human halls. Iceland is not spoken of as a local or a joint. It is simply saying that it is a destination for human halls. It's all very important. We need to be alert to the fact that this is happening where people are growing, that they are going to get down. There's also something quite remarkable. The fact that victims go to the police, says the report, is of little value to them. I know that the police themselves are considering how they can use their methods to encourage people to relate. I think that's a great improvement. I just want to take my hat off if the police are able to reverse that trend so that others will view the police as assistance, not as a threat.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u69	Mr. President. There is reason to view only the history of the divine law that we are moving toward a judicial decision. The bill about which the bill is about is 227. g. a general penal law, as marked. This law of mansal came into the general penal law, as is traced into the report by the bill, by law No. 40/2003, No. 19/1940. There is a reason to note that the reconstituted product has been adjusted at least in two places. The second time, there was an increase in peak punishment and a maximum penalty for ments raised from eight years of prison to 12 years in prison. The report attributes that in commentaries with a bill that became the law No. 72/2011 will be referred to the Supreme Court of June 16, 2010, where, as the report says, the first and only time, was a conviction for human trafficking in this country. By permission of the president, it says: ▪ Five men were sentenced to share in a catapult against a 19 - year - old girl. The person thought to have the largest share in the offense was sentenced to five years in prison, and the four were each in a four - year prison. The report shows that out of the court it is clear that a person in a man - made dealer is guilty of serious offenses against the person who is to be deprived of his freedom in one way or another. In view of the seriousness of meningal fractures, and taking into account punishments against 194.g. 226 g. (c. deportation) General penalties, No. 19/190, the maximum penalty for mansalion increased from 8 years of prison to 12 years in prison. The report explained that the bill suggests changes in the state of 227. par. a subject to human penance to further improve the protection of the victims and to facilitate a lawsuit against those responsible for the fractures. In particular, the development of legislation elsewhere in the North countries, another report by the European Parliament, GRETA, through Iceland, and the European Parliament and Council Directive 2011/36/EU to prevent and protect against the man - made shards and the more established International Jobs Agency. I have come to the end of my case, Mr. President, and I would like to complete this discussion with a firm appeal that, on the part of the government, there will be no saving in the battle against organized crime so that police can get that tool, equipment, human power, authority, and anything else that is lost to achieve this conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u70	Mr. President. I will continue my final talk. I've been putting into practice the importance of developing communities doing everything they can to keep an organized criminal activity consisting of a man-salter. I related in my final talk that there is a very interesting essay I met at the University of Iceland, by Dagbjört Blöndal, that deals with human halls and what communities can do to cope with it. Many interesting details are presented in the essay, and with the permission of a president, I'm just going over here to discuss the main reason why a person becomes a victim of a human hall. One of its main reasons is poverty, these are individuals who suffer economic deficiency and regard it as an emergency to move to another country in the hope of gaining more income and improving their standard of living, a natural self - survival project. Sadly, though, criminals in poorer lands take advantage of this. They'll take advantage of, for example. The poverty and vulnerability of women, in areas where job opportunities are low for women, and they are lower in the community. And so it's once like that, like if we take e.g. Iceland, foreign women often become victims of human halls. They are foreigners in their lands, they have moved there to try to improve their standard of living, and then they become caught up in the clutches of these discrepancies. It's simply because it's harder for them to be in these countries, they don't speak the language, the environment is exotic, and they don't have people who can help them, etc. It has been mentioned in talks and is known to be an international crime involving occult and illegal activities. That is why it is difficult for law enforcement personnel, social workers, and others to try to identify who are really the victims. Many of these victims come from lands where there is great corruption and harsh punishment and apathy against human hallsmen. Hence, they often fear to connect themselves with government officials in some way by associating with them. And the inequities we know exist between developing countries and Western countries, creating incentives for people to seek and move better forms of life. The inefficient person makes it a hope to gain a better life and a better income elsewhere. Richer countries where the potential for earning is more intense. It's kind of used by the people involved in this, trying to get people to come, and then it's usually the use of improving the standard of living, people are offered a good salary, etc. There's a lot more that comes into this, and I would've liked to get it to the next talk and ask Mr. President to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u71	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss this man-salter business and the state of the police in these matters and her call for further funding in order to hire more officers, especially now. After the workweek was made legal, it calls for more work from the police. Often needed, but now is necessary. I was reading in the state police diagnostic report from May 2019. I'd like to grab a little bit of the chapter from it, where there's a break in work. It says, by permission of the president: The U.S. Marshal's Department of Unity discussed the term "Achievement Market" to be taken care of in 2017. This aims to translate a term accepted in the northern countries (n. Arbeidsmarkedoutlet). In the field of trade unions, there has been some efforts to deal with social subsidies and rights in a labour market. Social subheadings include: Illegal volunteers Rewarded Insufficient recruitment agreements Misuse of working people Dissociation of Rest Time Directives Inadequate Device Misuse in connection with the renting of an apartment house owned by a professional driver. The U.S. Marshal's analysis department believes that it is possible to conclude that the incidence of job crime remains largely in contact with the number of foreigners working in the country at any given time. In the summer of 2018, foreigners were never more in Iceland. In recent years there has been a lack of staff in certain areas of employment in the country, as shown by the European Environment Agency (Eionet). There is an increased demand for police and monitoring agencies at the labour market. The U.S. Marshal's Department of Analysis suggests that lack of surveillance in this field is directly involved in increasing the scope of ◯ the job activity and the loss of a job market to move abroad. On the other hand, this series is about many complex and difficult things, especially because of cultural culture, language difficulties, volunteer work, and regulations. about the so-called 'Environment Board', which are very large in the Icelandic labour market. The police are aware that candidates for international protection are in some cases at the national level. In these cases, the individual may be employees of the workforce and may even be severely abused. There is also evidence that some employers see cheap workers in candidates for international protection. - That's interesting. However, if you have received such material, you have found your way on the table of the police. Then there is money and so on. How interesting it is to read this report! It reviews all the factors the police have had to live on, and it is increasingly adrift at the point we are considering, in fact, here and there. manal. So again, I want to appeal to the police to be hired more officers to cover this growing show in Iceland, i.e. It's a crime of this injury.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u72	President. In my earlier discussion of this matter, I made a few remarks that all of them in common make me feel that the overall picture we're dealing with is missing, despite the fact that the case is such, I reiterate it now, is very positive and certainly a step in the right direction. However, if the underlying causes are not considered, the way the crime is carried out, and the way it is linked to other offenses, the action under attack may not result in the results they might achieve. I didn't quite finish what I was going to review on this whole connection at 2nd. The point. By the time of my death, I had briefly traced the diagnostics of the State Marshal's Department to explain their reports, very good reports, enormously important data, the way criminal gangs are showing attention to people and peoples abuse the systems here, in order to form the security system and the welfare system. By the time I was removed, I was beginning to learn that there are two kinds of influences, one called the English form of 'Pulll factor' or the gravitational attraction of a country, and the other, I simply mention the English term because it is quoted in the report, '- ◯Push factor', translated in Icelandic language as pressure, how these two things can play together. And in order to explain the context to human halls, I'm going to quote directly in the section of the manal and human study report. This is the report of the 2017 State Marshal's Interpretation Report, a turning point in this country, although it should have brought much more attention than it had experienced. But it says, by permission of the president: ▪ Track on the border, preferably on the other side. In the case of each government's policies and standards, it is important that we do so. This is absolutely essential in these matters. The political policy, the message that comes from the government, affects humans in such a way as to explain: ▪ The factors that encourage circuits to travel to Europe are referred to in this report as "Plull factor." Among such factors are employment opportunities, freedom, well - known social planning, and general expectations for better prospects in new homes. The implementation of the European government policy has fallen before the United States to increase the force of attraction to Iceland as its destination for European circuits in search of a better standard of living. In support of this, there is the trend in the other North countries, and so is the case here. The key point is that these systems are abused, one by the perp, i.e. directly in their own interest, but also in order to get people started, innocent people who become so even victims of the human race. This attraction that Iceland has been increasing is new to lure people here, even in debt to criminals. That's what people are actually given into this man's room, and that's why it's so important that our system doesn't have to be easy to get out in Iceland, to sell Iceland as their destination, and thus lure people into the trap of a human hall. We have noted that the government in Denmark and other parts of the North has come to realize this and is making a complete change in its systems. For example, consider Denmark. The system has been changed so that Denmark is not new as a product, as a destination, as a means of attracting people to a dangerous mission that can result in some loss of freedom, and thus it is inevitable to consider this in relation to experiments that in part appear on this bill to cope with the manure. According to the report, organized crime, including the U.S. These factors are growing. And before I get to that, because I don't know what my time is going to last, I'm just going to step up to the introductions of this report, the summary, because it's a relatively short period of time that all these effects are being considered. It says by permission of the president: The police feel that people are growing, and they tend to. in the face of the growing number of people who want international protection in this country. It is known that individuals from countries defined as states of the National Institute of Foreignland, would be able to make use of a welcome system for international protection in Iceland in order to engage in activities such as bifocal or crime. Mr. President, here comes a little consideration from me. I think it's right for us to try to distinguish between those who come here and do black jobs, i.e. on those who do not pay taxes and, in fact, those who are free, have been deprived of freedom by paying off a debt to dangerous people. On the other hand, it is often difficult to tell the full limit, and the police are not jealous of that role. But as the report repeatedly calls out, it needs just a little more human resources, equipment, authority, and so forth to deal with this changing reality that meets us here in Iceland. I'll continue, with President's permission: There are examples of people who have stayed here in a country where millions of international protections have engaged in illegal activities, both occupational or criminal activities, and have, after refusing protection and dismissing Iceland, returned a few days later and adopted former illegal activities. A report on prospects and future development in the 2015 analyses set out specifically to warn against the risks of labor traders and prostitution. The report stated: ▪ Aggressive and man-to-be could be increased, including in connection with large increases in construction and tourism. Building growth creates a risk of illegal import into workers, and there are cases where the slave of the darkness is involved. Some offenders have been found to play a role in the man - made trade by deceiving and abusing individuals who come in their ways. This will increase the risk that black employment will survive in connection with increasing activity in tourism and construction. So says he and I return to the subject of the 2017 report: Sadly, this one seems to have been the case. Police have strong suspicions about human halls in various sectors of employment, especially those who have grown rapidly in the past two years. In the past two years, wing activity has increased dramatically and is advertised on Web sites and on community media. Over the years, intelligence departments have repeatedly warned that those seeking international protection in Iceland, because of poor social standing, may suffer abuse and even various forms of oppression. Such abuse is known in neighboring countries, and it is often associated with a ◯black industry. Mr. President. As a result, those who are, as the 2015 report puts it, were put to slavery between the Dark and also to prostitution. The report has a very special chapter on the factor that includes. ... that prostitution is associated in some cases with the man trader. That is to say, these gangs who abuse people make people, and mostly women, working as prostitutes. The latest 2019 report notes that there has been an explosion of prostitution in Iceland and is also described by the way the system is abused to lure young women into that path. We must want to consider this in the context of the limited experiment in the bill under discussion, in order to stop the man - made halls, and the use of these serious crimes. I want to, because I can see that my time is running out, overcoming the importance that in the work we're taking over at the government in this struggle, there's a tip and, in fact, the police call on the nature of this problem and the methods needed to deal with it. In each report after another, the police actually send out an emergency call, explaining that they do not have that kind of person, the technology, the knowledge, the equipment, the circumstances needed to deal with this changed reality. I reiterate what I said here in the beginning that with this bill, the steps are positive, but they are of limited value if they are not part of an overall campaign that views the real nature of the problem and its roots and makes it possible for governments, police authorities, social authorities, and others to cope with this changed reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u73	Mr. President. I miss pretty much that in this hall we are not discussing this matter for a few years now. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who recently encouraged us as members of the Middle Ages in this matter. Of course, we are subject to the mark of this fine subject, as mentioned earlier, that it is very necessary to make changes and to improve the quality of human tolerance. In my first speech, I witnessed to the BA literature I had in hand since 2012 and considered how the home has added to the problems of a man - made dealer. The author also made a very thorough review of the consequences of human halls and, in particular, mansals in connection with prostitution. That's exactly what it says, by permission of a president: ▪ Mansal is a serious crime that greatly affects the person involved, both mentally and physically. This is especially true of people, most often women and children, who are sold to work in the sex and pornography industry in many parts of the world. If the victims escape human situation, they may find it difficult to account for what they have had to go through. People in social services and hospitals need to be aware of what is going on, and it can be difficult to build up needed trust in dealing with such matters, which is once again to make it difficult for victims to express themselves on what they have experienced. Victims of human rights and violence often see no solution other than returning to their original situation, which is the role of the individual institutions and their employees to make people aware that there are other options. It takes a lot of time to deal with the tragedy, but during the process, it is important that the needs of the victim be respected and that they receive the needed legal help. In Iceland, the challengers of sexual abuse have been able to help cope with the consequences, but gang members are all women who have been sexually abused. The advice, therefore, is based on their own experience, and it also highlights the most important point. Mr. President. This little offense shows how serious the crime of human hall is. I reviewed it here in my first talk, and will do it over and over again, that the porn industry is growing because of the Internet, and pornography is becoming more severe and, unfortunately, teaches young boys that this is what sex should be about, so far away, as we know. It doesn't make any difference, Mr. President, that we have to make sure that the men behind the mansales, i.e. These organized crime organizations will be decommissioned. We must strive that they will not be established here in Iceland. We need to strive for the financial value of the police to deal with the threat of this organization. And we also need to arrange matters in such a way that our borders are secure and that all of the resources we have there are new to prevent organized criminal organizations from moving around here in Iceland. We've got to stand up against traders and prostitution in Iceland, and we can't save any strength to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u74	Mr. President. We're finishing this fine talk. There is a change in universal penal law that makes us more clear certain aspects of the law that has to do with human halls, which is very positive. With members of the Parliament, we have considered ways to improve the entire environment. We have also noted the need to strengthen the departments and those who are trying to eradicate the activities behind man - made dealers. It takes many pictures, a working hall, a brothel, and other things. Also, what sort of groups they are, what sort of criminals they are, who get from that trade and profit from selling people to the uncertainty of boats or in other ways in the hope of a better life. Many reach their destination, but they do not necessarily have a better life where they land. It's the money you need to uproot. Time and again, it is likely that people - or those that are close to them - have become all they can afford. As far as you can hear it - you know it, though it doesn't go right down to the bottom - there's a debt you're paying as a global crime circle that can collect, stretching out your scents around the world. But as Iceland has stronger legislation, more specific rules, and tries to keep these criminals from selling people the idea of a better life, or by moving to Iceland, people they've come across, the less likely they are. I repeat, Mr. President, that I believe it is important that we go to further, for example. Police agencies involved in organized crime. At their table, there are no doubt too many cases, as we have seen in the state police reports connected with organized crime and human sales. There we need to resist and say: "We are going to strengthen these our institutions in order to respond. We're supposed to send the message, anywhere, that we're dealing very hard with those who do this kind of work, who deal with people who sell here in some sort of forced form, who we're going to be dealing with, and who we don't tolerate. We're supposed to try to keep criminals from selling people the idea of paying people to come here looking for a better life, which may not get them at all. We need to send out that message. Of course, at the same time, we have a prelude to receive people who are truly in need and who go through the institutions in which they are willing to make decisions or assess and recommend such. It's been a great talk, Mr. President. I think it's a good thing. There is a tendency to explain and strengthen. Yet, much more can be done, and hopefully it will be possible to cope in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u75	A respectable president. I would like to receive my second talk on the matter discussed here with the 3rd. to report briefly to the U.S. Marshal's Intelligence Department since May 2019. It has been very much discussed in connection with the subject discussed here, this man's business. Mansal is fascinated by the organized violations of the government and his people, the country's police authorities, are struggling with their daily activities, including those of the United States. the 15 organized groups that are believed to be in the country. The Marshal has given us a very decisive warning, in order to say a mild word, to the developments that have occurred in the past decade and also to flaunt how vulnerable we really are. In fact, it is quite amazing how little discussion these two reports from the U.S. Marshal's Intelligence Department, from 2017 to 2019, have been received. There was a special discussion here at the council this winter, but in the community they have not received much attention. The warning words are that the council can no longer sit by the police in bringing the weapons and tools that may be used to deal with these organized crime groups. If we continue to be so simple and blue - eyed in these matters, things will only get worse. We'll see, for example. Over the years, the trend in drug - related developments has taken place. The chemicals are getting harder and tough on the streets are increasing. As everyone knows, the latest news of the simply execution of these groups was found. I still think it's an opportunity to step into this situation in a way that will benefit us, but the longer we delay this discussion, so that the police get the resources, the weapons that can be useful in this struggle, the less likely we will really be to resist when we finally have the courage to give the strength and strength that the police really need. In view of this, I would like to, although not yet left in the council work now, to direct it to the autumn Senate to take these two reports from 2017 and 2019, on organized violations in Iceland, the risk assessment reports for the police department, to a thorough and counterweighted, and to shape a bill - and, of course, it will be on the hands of the Minister of Justice -- which will bite. At the very least, I state that the Central Party will be responsible for such legal procedures, and I say that the majority of the U.S. Congress will be ready to do so when it is the reality. If we are to allow this to happen after these warnings have happened, it is our responsibility. We must take advantage of the opportunity we have to resist the temptation to resist any form of temptation. This may not be the case, when these gangs have become even stronger in the community than they are now. And just about enough is the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u76	Mr. President. In a previous talk on this subject, I saw the importance of looking at the overall picture in the effort to deal with the serious crimes of human beings and in what way other criminal activities can be affected. However, I had only mentioned a very specific part of it, for all of this is really a crime that involves more and less, as reported in police reports. It is relatively small that these criminal groups merely cut the offense into one particular species of crime. For example, drugs linked in many cases to human dealers and criminals may even seek to make their victims dependent on drugs to improve their control, or, as has actually, only in the discussion, have they been forced to take part in the transport and sale of such substances. Then, of course, it is surprising that at the same time as this is taking on one aspect of an organized criminal organization, to a limited extent, the government should provide a bill that involves a very extensive drug legal approach compared to what other countries have done, a bill that is meant to facilitate such a job for criminals. The same might be said of other criminal areas of these gangs, such as money laundering, tax fraud, and traveling crime groups. All of this needs to be viewed in order to succeed in fighting each stage of crime. Of course, this is difficult because especially in the case of human halls, victims may look to police. This is made clear in police reports. The police, therefore, need to map this problem, based on information that they obtain in a way that differs from the fact that charges are reported. Of course, police possibilities of this need to be there, including. with a multitude of men fighting organized crime in particular. I quoted only in the 2017 state police diagnostic report. I'm only going to interrupt the 2019 report, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ An illegal transport and smuggling of people are involved in organized criminal organizations. National crime groups that have settled in many European countries are very active in this area. Police data indicate that foreign citizens have been exported to Iceland in an organized way to receive man trade and abuse. In 2018, a extensive human physiotherapy began. It seems that a foreign person has organized people across borders around the world and has finally moved to Iceland. It also explains the systems here, the security systems and the welfare systems of the country, are abused by these agents, and it says at the end of the chapter, by permission of the president: ▪ A law informs that candidates for international protection may, in some cases, be employed in the country. In these cases, the individual may be employees of the workforce and may even be severely abused. There is also evidence that some employers see cheap workers in candidates for international protection. [[The president calls.]] However, few such cases have made their way on the police board because they have not been charged. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I guess I'm gonna have to finish my case. My time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u77	Mr. President. Here we will discuss changing the law on temporary reimbursement for film making in Iceland. It's a very interesting subject we're discussing here. Iceland has, as we all know, gained a good word or has a good reputation in the movie world. The films have been recorded here, and there was considerable interest in it. I'm going to be willing to thank and thank Iceland's office and its activities based on attracting people in the movie sector for the initiative. It's been going very well, and we're supposed to be thanking you when things are going well, and I'm here to do it. These include reimbursement, extending the duration of the current law to 2025, as well as clarifying the rules of reimbursement and such. However, it has been observed that the competition is intense. Many countries are struggling to gain this trade. It's a big business and a lot of people fighting to get it to themselves because there's a lot of questions around it that call for many kinds of men and tools and tools. The competition is quite hard, and that's why reimbursement is important. I'm not going to pretend that I know a reimbursement system, either here or anywhere else, into my basement. You know, though, that these are different, different how much money is paid, and the rules vary. As far as I'm told, I'm saying that I haven't gotten to know it completely myself, the account or the management around these different types of things, as it's as if it's no wonder that there's any different rules about this. It is very important for us Icelanders to be competitive when it comes to this sector, i.e. To attract us filmmakers. How important it is that we have the rules that are clear, obvious, and competitive! I'm not going at this point to pretend that I know how to judge the degree of the percentage to be. The cost of these producers, the appearance of rules, the timing of reimbursement, and so on, may also matter. I want to make it very important for us to do this because I think that this activity around the film industry is also a source of many other infrastructures and knowledge. People are interested in education in these articles, and we have, of course, that, I think, we have benefited from the fact that our great artists have met foreign people who have, at the same time, been able to impart it through their experience, even hire the person for a job, etc. It is important for us that we look at the article cumulatively, that we have powerful schools to educate actors, moviemakers, and all the many people I don't have a dog at what is called films, haircuts, sounds, lights, and all of these. We need to make sure that here in Iceland there is both a knowledge and an active force that knows things as we have recently shown. We are to keep our environment in order to attract individuals who want to learn and work in this sector. It is very tempting to discuss here only the good results that Icelandic artists have achieved in both music and film making, in the game, and in the game. But, of course, the word of Iceland is foreign when these good people come in and have trust and are trustworthy in their jobs. We can also see that the Icelanders can say good things about coming to movies as well as television shows, and when I talk about movies, I'm talking about it as well as being good at it, or our good artists. The committee deals with the situation and makes small changes, I think it's safe to say, or at least not many changes to the bill. These include some proposed changes to the confirmation of the related cost. As I have been able to read more about the comments on the subject, which, in fact, I forgot to take in the speaker's pad, it is clear that this is a positive thing, being improved and clear, and should be welcomed. This will discuss access to the presentations of the projects that provide a basis for reimbursement and other activities and extensions. I think it's very important that we have a vision for the future. It hasn't always been a sign of the government that's going on for a while to have a vision, that we can know what's beyond the corner, what we see. It's been a government microdose, a government response, not a government plan-making thing or saying to us, this way we're going. We saw it in the Covid epidemic, which is now about to end, that we were too hovering to react, hovering to provide vaccines, hovering in operations, and measures were largely responsive, I'm not going to state entirely, but to a large extent. It is also clear that the film industry has a major impact on other jobs that are largely unrelated but with connections such as if we watch tourism. Also, it is possible to wonder whether other employment sectors, many of which are very proud, such as agriculture and fishing exports, will possibly benefit from this too, i.e. when it comes to our pure and beautiful nature. At least it is tempting to think that all of this has a positive effect. The committee's opinion also discusses a certain opinion, whether paying back the cost of the same things in more than one place. I think it's important to support what is presented in the committee's opinion that this is done in particular. The possible over-exploitation considered is something I think people must simply resolve to investigate and find out. Although we want a good system and relatively simple and beneficial, of course, we should insist that only once is paid for the same object. At least it's my personal opinion. Here the committee suggests a change in certain wording that I think is a significant improvement. The issue of such things should also give us reason to wonder if we can go further in this regard. Is there anything else you can do? I have no doubt that our fine people who are attending this operation so far have all kinds of ideas about what might be done more to attract more members here to their assignments. Well, then I think it's pretty good to use the time now, since we've extended the guidelines for reimbursement and possibly review the movie policy, if there's something that's still being improved. Although it's certainly until 2030, there is no question that we should keep her in our minds constantly, and that's what I'm trying to say. We should also not be afraid to look at how others do things, and although many people now want to say about many members of the council that they are afraid to look at something new, we should not be, and we should observe and see what others are doing. This does not necessarily mean that we have to pick up everything that is done abroad. Not necessarily everything that comes from outside is good. However, we should learn and use what others have burned at, using what others do well to strengthen the scope of this work, film making. I remember, even though I don't remember the numbers, but it is now as it is, that a few years ago a report on the economic impact of filmmaking was made. It was very interesting then to see how big this industry is, in fact, numbers and manpowers, and there are opportunities in many parts of the country, in villages and towns, in the city, in movie theaters. This is where people are building movie theaters, and hopefully it's just going great. It has also been shown that music can be written north of Akureyri, cut north photos, and create a specific factor, so to speak, in many parts of the country based on filmmaking, on television programs, etc. It is also fun to think of this interest in Iceland and what Icelanders, many of them, have done well abroad, choose to work in Iceland but create employment. I'll just mention, for example, one of many, the Symphony Orchestra of Northern Europe. It's absolutely amazing how many projects have been made in connection with the making of music just for them a very good band. As I say, Mr. President, the bill is that mine knows good, there are certain things that are being explained, as I understand. I reiterate that I forgot to take along the reviews that I had covered, not completely read letters, but hopefully before my second speech. But most importantly, we're going to explain and send the message that we're going to extend the system we have, we're going to continue to welcome the people who want to come to Iceland and make movies. I'm gonna let me tell you, I hope this is a lot of power right now when we're seeing the end of the epidemic. We need to start looking ahead. We need to build up the land. We have a job to make. This industry is no worse than any other to do so. There are so many things that happen around movies or TV shows. There's so much business to get to. I hope there's an explosion, I'm gonna let myself say, maybe that's not the right word, but hopefully there'll be a lot of appeal and demand to come to Iceland and produce movies. I think it is well worth continuing to strengthen the filmmaking process, of course, as we are trying to do with our local filmmaking, to have strong institutions, strong schools, and strong studies for individuals who want to educate themselves in this sector or around it, and, of course, that the remunerations are in the way of answering the call and competition that we obviously have in many countries near and far. I didn't come into it, and had actually forgotten that this was the mention of one example, if I remember correctly, today or yesterday. Some people decided to go anywhere but to Iceland to film a movie that's supposed to happen in Iceland. Now that I don't know this example, I hope it's something we can explain. I hope it's not because our system is something strange, hopefully it's because there's some other situation or things that call for it. I think it would be interesting to hear what it is that makes these people not filming Icelandic in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u78	Mr. President. This is an excellent business, which is important to jobs and is part of what we all hope to do quickly and effectively now that the virus epidemic is on its way and vaccination is going well. So here it is that the law of reimbursement is being extended until 2025. There are positive comments about this subject. That's what we're doing here in the media. This is important to the film industry and becomes an injection into our economy to attract foreign films. The National Institute of Iceland has sent in positive comments and industrial organizations and gives the EU a positive report. I'm not going to look at them any further, but it's good for the senators to study them because it paints a picture of how professionals envision this, which is, of course, an important part of the matter. I just want to review a report made by the Government Accounting Program, I think it was in 2016. This report is very interesting, it is relatively recent; it is not since 2016. It shows that the National Reconnaissance investigated whether or not this system was being abused. Of course, it is vital that we maintain these activities. Here, naturally, there are considerable amounts of money that go into the reimbursement system and even ideas about raising them in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the country, which in many respects is a very reasonable argument. The pleasant news came from a National Reunion project to investigate whether there was any evidence that the system was abused that it was not. The report leaves no doubt as to whether the misuse of film reimbursement has been tolerated. That's very pleasant news. This report also discusses the importance of the reimbursement system for Iceland's competitiveness. It says that in 2016 the lawgiver has considered a reason to increase the percentage of reimbursement for film production. The reasons included They need to be careful of Iceland's competitiveness when it comes to attracting foreign projects on film and TV production. This sector is highly competitive. There are many countries who seek these privileges for themselves, and we Iceland are in this competitive environment, so we can really offer no less favour than our neighboring nations, in my opinion, in this competitive situation. It is also important to remember that movie producers have unpredictable working conditions, including those dedicated to them. of several factors, such as the small size of the market and the limited financial resources to the article, and then natural success development always comes into it, and then it's just a common nation's raise. But it is also appropriate to keep in mind that this is not a force in the actual sense of that word. Rather, it is a reimbursement of part of the cost that has already fallen from the production of films. By the time the reimbursement is due, a wealth of money has already been paid considerably more than the reimbursement. It is only often and often, as many reports have shown. Thus, film reimbursement has only a positive effect on the payment of a government budget and is without a risk to the state funds, since a complete payment has to be made prior to reimbursement. This is shown in a report by the National Review. Such a system is simple and beneficial and has been considered to be the main source of this system of foreign people who have produced films in Iceland. This is an interesting report that appears on the part of a government accountant and its delightful results. Next, I would like to visit an interesting publication that appeared a few years ago on the economic effects of film art and is the result of Ágúst Einarsson. His conclusion is that increasing the activity of film industry is a good investment for the government outside that it increases the size and depth of Iceland's culture. This is a very interesting publication, a lot of literature, and I would like to encourage members of the council to study it because there are many interesting things that are presented there. If I just grab on a few things, Mr. President's permission: ▪ Video reimbursement laws have proved to be effective, but similar laws are common in many places. Among other things, many foreign films have received reimbursement that would not have been recorded here if not for them. Foreign films, which are taken in part in this country, provide a wide range of aspects of the global business of films as well as a variety of services. Several major films have been partly recorded in the country... That's what we know. And some major films have been made up in part, a natural huge injection for our economy and the area where films are being taken. And it goes on to say, by permission of the President: The decision is in the budget of each year how much money to spend on these remunerations. Since it is not known how many or what films are reimbursed and the reimbursement is the rate of production, the total amount of money is not available until the year is past, and then the amount is in the budget, or budget, likely far from being the right one. That is, therefore, the normal legal bill for that year is being checked for the right amount, but it is usually not provided until one or two years after the donation of a budget bill. Movie funding is quite unusual in comparison with other companies. Normally, companies earn money for their activities by providing their own money, e.g. in the form of the stocks, and/or reimbursed loans over long or short periods. When a company has been working for some time, it can also finance things, or even all its activities, with accumulated profits, or through property sales. In Europe the public gives considerable contributions to support film making. Government policies in Europe are strengthening the film industry, including so that there isn't too much American stuff, now it's like that. However, in the United States it is not usually public help with the production of films, and it is often difficult to sell foreign films on the market because of their lack of interest in foreign literature. Americans seem interested only in what is produced in the United States when it comes to films. It's only once like that. However, they have a yearly award, the famous Oscar Prize delivery, with the choice of the best foreign film, and that is naturally very important. The publication then says, with the permission of a president: The cost of production at a maximum of 20% may be met by costs, as was the case earlier. The international rules for which Iceland is bound require that national support be limited to more than 50% of the production costs, while the ratio is considered to be a competitive position to others. In addition to official funding from a movie center and reimbursement because of costs, foreign funds are important, as well as funding from foreign producers or buyers such as television stations, domestics, and foreign countries. This large contribution from abroad underscores the importance of the film industry in currency. Despite being strengthened by a variety of films, there is no reference to calming down and financing that is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, problem of Icelandic filmmakers and that has been for decades. As described earlier, most films produce less than any other film in nearby lands. In many production companies, support factors such as international and international advertising, and renting the equipment available locally and abroad, are of great importance in supporting the development of films in relevant companies. The art of film industry is widely used, including for production of graphics, distribution and display, etc. So there are a lot of jobs in this sector that really matter. And especially during that year when unemployment is so important to each individual, it is of enormous importance. We know that this has all been down because of the virus epidemic, but hopefully we'll find that something like this is going to happen again. Then it can be noted that there are natural jobs that are indirectly related to films, i.e. to provide resources from other companies, as well as lodging services, significant transfers, and restaurants and a variety of services around the film industry. Indirect or secondary jobs are therefore many that lead directly and indirectly to increased consumption in the affected area. So it's all positive and important. I see the time is almost over, Mr. President, and just to stay within the hour. Finally, I would like to say that this bill is unequivocally supported by a source of authority, which is good. Then you could say that an Iceland lab brought you a very good report to consider. Maybe I'll come in later. If the highest. The president could put me back on the rosary, and I'd be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For good talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson offered. I took note that he mentioned the research of Ágúst's Einarsson in this field, which has just published a book on this subject, on the practical effects of films, with some clear and meaningful findings on the fact that culture is of value in itself, but it has also proved to be an important and major occupational value to the nation. This study with him on film was the first of his species in the country, but he had previously published an parallel study on the economic effects of music in which similar results were found, i.e. the economic importance of the art that I think is important in this context. I've found it interesting in his writings, where he speaks of the consumption of civilization here and that it's a lot. He divides the discussion into two major factors, one for the sake of the cultural and artistic elements in itself, but the fact that certain shyness and inadequacies were to recognize that the arts are important jobs, and when it comes to caring for them, these articles are already articles that have shown its importance but that they can become even bigger and more important. I'm what? A senator agreed to support this matter, but his point has appeared to be that with increased and specific support, we could be watching that these articles could even become a major subject. Perhaps now the question is, What is the senator's view of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this fine scheme. It was very interesting to read Einarsson's Ágúst, really well worked, and many sides in which one may not have thought in general into that matter of economic importance. When I was looking at this publication and looking only into it, I would do exactly as I did, that it would show that he was then working the same kind of literature on the practicality of music. Thank you. A senator for expressing it here. I agree that there's a lot of potential for this. We have only seen that once Harpa's fine music house was used, there has been a tremendous increase in the arrival of foreign people and foreign tourists to make concerts, and it is a pleasure. Of course, this is an extensive injection into the activities around us, the accommodations, the restaurants, etc., as also shown in Ágúst' filmmaking report. I have to say, this could be quite a business in this country if we were to keep things in place. A major industry has been named, and this may be quite a comparison because if we create the environment that is needed here to attract these activities, we have great opportunities. We have these amazing things of nature, which may especially attract the filmmaking, to attract such activity here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u81	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with these views, i.e. the opportunities we face here. I have found the discussion, perhaps naturally, to be a bit of a tire walk talking about the need for the circumstances that are now especially supportive. This is true, but this discussion should not be overlooked, and we should not forget that when circumstances are normal in this article, governments are raising a amount of money that is estimated to be worth billions of dollars each year. Now that we are following a pandemic, discussing it here in this room over and over again that we need a more broad range of support in the commercial world, it is absolutely clear in my mind that it is not just a good blow but an important and reasonable investment to make a little more specific on the movie and on the arts, as we were doing in the studies we were talking about earlier. We should focus on specific ways in which we can contribute to the well - rooted variety of branches. Then I think it was also important to look to our young people. We are in such an environment today, competing for interesting jobs, and for young people to choose to live in Iceland. The film type can be one of the responses in these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u82	Mr. President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator and I are happy that she came into the young people. Indeed we should offer exciting jobs, and I know that there is a lot of interest in young people in making films and everything we do on films, makeup, plays, and all of this. I know examples of young people who have gone abroad and who have studied makeup and everything around them. Of course, there are films that must be made that promote creation, innovation, and creativeness. All of this is important. Then, naturally, we want these fine people to come back home and have some opportunity to work on what they have worked for. Then Iceland's film industry is very important. This may be primarily about the environment being competitive, that big company in film production is filming a particular film, a big movie, see it: I can pick it up in Ireland, or I can film it in Iceland, it's not important, but I see that the remuneration rate is higher in Ireland than in Iceland, and then I'm going to Ireland, understand why. It's something we need to get right into the basement. We must make my decision to be competitive in this regard. There are a lot of factors, many jobs, and injections into the economy. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A senator for a very good answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u83	V.E.G. President. The media is a class that has a fondness for culture and innovation. With what? paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir earlier, I think it's with delightful exceptions, and the middle party seems to be the only party at a council that's interested in filmmaking. It's not surprising, but it seems now. The bill presented for this discussion is presented in the following report by the National Reexamination asking that remuneration be placed in solid form and that it would be guaranteed that it would not be leaving the state fund something from which it should not go to filmmaking - something that is sound in mind. In 2020, probably, $2.1 billion slipped from the state fund to reimbursement for film making. I've been wondering what we got in return. Maybe the most intimate example is from a movie that wasn't long ago titled a Oscar Prize. I'm talking about the movie Evrovision Festival that was shown here last year, and the title song was entitled to the Oscar Prize, though it didn't win. This photo was recorded mostly in Húsavík, and it received 135 million. K. in reimbursement for the production of this country. I was wondering if it would be worth the attention and interest this one film has brought in Iceland as a whole, and I'm not talking about Húsavík. I think if we were to figure it out, Mr. President, we'd find out the amount that would be considerably higher than this 135 million, which was just given its share as a result of reimbursement. Then I'm not talking about all the stuff that the movie crew left of income in Húsavík and around. I think that's a pretty big amount if we put it together. As the people of the United States know, Iceland has also been developing a field of international filmmaking, and it says that the Hildur Guðnadóttir is the natural composer. I don't know if people in general realize it, but for one film Hildur has won every major award for movies, i.e. The BAFTA Prize, the Grammy Prize and the Oscar Prize. The group that has won these three awards for music is very few. I can't remember if there are 50 or 60 people who have done that. Thus, the result of Hildur is unbelievable, and they provide encouragement and an example for people who want to have a good time in movies. Nor can it be avoided to mention that, of course, this prize is of great interest in Iceland. This calls attention to our country, which calls attention to the fact that we have extremely skilled artists in this area, so there's nothing wrong with coming here and making movies. I'm also going to mention the structure in Gufunesi, the studio that Kormákur Kortasar Baltasarsson has been building up, and I'm sure he'll give us a number of films that will be recorded here. If we look back for a few years, we could take as an example the land presentation that Iceland has published on a television program that could be called the Kuun Games and was adopted in many parts of the country. As it happens, many of the places to shoot that have become popular destinations of tourists are places unknown to us, even unknown to us Icelanders. So there's a big opportunity. I'd also like to mention that through this connection Iceland has acquired a lot of what Iceland and I want in our little soulliness to call Iceland. Very many of the world's most famous film games, and the most famous directors in the world have found their way here to do their art. In fact, some have taken the opportunity to end their marriage, as it did. Iceland, although sad, has also been exposed to it. For the 2.1 billion that we paid last year in reimbursement for film making, I think we're getting back quite extraordinary land-reaming, and we're getting a job for highly educated and highly qualified people who work in this sector here in Iceland. I don't need to list all those who have made a living abroad, whether for a haircut, for a movie program or for a movie game where some people are now on large assignments abroad. All of this adds to the propaganda, creating the network that is so necessary for us to enjoy more income and equipment for this production. Then I have to stay a little longer in the north, because it happens that Humor in Akureyri is regularly recording movie and television. That means, if I don't break out, that because of these projects, Symphonia Nor or the Symphonic Orchestra of Northern America changed into a band that has the musical players on a fixed salary. Well, that's just great, Mr. President. It's an amazing achievement that this is happening in a town the size of Akureyri. As we know, it has, for example. Help our musicians, and there I have to mention Örvarsson Örvarsson, these people working on their arts, and they've got computer communication, they're doing things that have their origins, e.g. On the West Coast of America, it's in communication, sending tapes and samples, back and forth, and online, working on a computer at this, plus the symphony band of the Husa. This is a wonderful opportunity for local communities, for those living there, and for the artists involved. So it is urgent, and it is very good that we are now facing the challenge of extending the law on reimbursement at the expense of filmmaking, even though we are putting in sharper frames for the reimbursement of Kingdom Accounting. Being an old friend of the state funds for many years, and his guardian, I love the treasure, and I want everyone to walk about him with due respect. So, what a fine thing it is that we are going on this journey! I would also like to mention that Ireland and other countries seem to be inciting us in this regard. We certainly need to be on guard. Now I'm not urging the Icelandic State Fund to go to some great subcommittee on this market, but I'd like men to be on their shoulders about what's happening in this sector so that we won't lose opportunities and lose big jobs from a country that otherwise would find our way here. As we look at how other nations have been successful and have followed this path, you become, for example, a person. to mention how filmmaking in New Zealand has soared and is then multiplied by the trinity of the Ringadarotin and Ringadotin history. We learned much from it. There are hundreds of thousands of tourists making their way to New Zealand to beat the eyes of the location of the crime scene used in the Ringadarothian drama. We have quite a few examples here in Iceland. I mentioned the Evroview film that was made at Húsavík. A few years ago, we received another film that was adopted both on Soyswanda and in other parts of the country. I know that foreign film fans have flocked here to Iceland to beat the eyes of movie scenes in Ben Stiller's film, and I don't remember whether he was running it. So the opportunity is gone, and they are mad now because now that we're coming out of this crown virus crisis, not just us, but the rest of the world, there's a lot of thirst for movies. There is a general need for movie fans to flock to a movie, which means that we have a lot of potential, even more than ever, here to meet the ratio of major movie projects. By having a good frame like this and by having reimbursement made by a couple with what happens here, I think we have a lot of potential. And we could use a chance in here, Mr. President. It has been mentioned here that innovation, for example, will occur. The main drives now build up after the virus is over. Then there may be a reduction in this case, a demarcation of the government's shutdown of the Creation Center under these circumstances, on the duty of the Independence Party. This may be harmful because, in any case, let us strap ourselves into a chest in this regard, i.e. reimbursement on filmmaking. I am convinced that the kind we are now working on will possibly reduce the damage caused by the government's prime runner in innovation and give us a chance that the government would otherwise have wasted as many others. It is also for us to introduce thoroughly to the world how these terms are, that the demands have only changed. Of course, we need to be very familiar with this, and we need to assist our people so that they will be ready to take on a large task. I mentioned the studio in Gufunesi earlier. There may be so much industry in Iceland, Mr. President, that there can also be a fine foundation for further technological advancement and to ensure that young people who have contributed to these projects as well as access to productive, well - paying jobs. That's why we need to support filmmaking as much as possible, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u84	V.E.G. President. It is not often that you have an opportunity to enter into subjects that are listed in different committees than the one you personally study with them through presentation. Here's a welcome opportunity to dig into this and listen to talks that are all nice and talk with this bill. I took along the committee opinion that has a change in my impression that all members of the committee are on, one in advance. Other than that, it seems to be working fine. For example, temporary reimbursement laws for filmmaking are being changed in Iceland, and perhaps this particular setting or tax frame may be being set because of the criteria of the Government Accounting, which contained a report of 2019. It is good for this to work so that the tips of the surveillance organisations to oversee where the money goes and how it is new. I'm very good with that. Then it is good to note that there is a cut off on the cost of manufacturing costs and what it is that makes up a stock for reimbursement, a procedure is set. There is also a very good prolongation of the time in values that I like, that there is a determination to see before the next few years so that people will have some time to complete an assignment, because these projects often take a long time. It's also important that we hold on to this reimbursement and it's been discussed here because of Iceland's competitiveness in the big world, so it's very good. The preceding talk discussed why. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson about Akureyri and the facilities that have been built up there. It's a perfect facility for making film music in Hofa, Akureyri, and a great deal about how it's been done. Hv. A senator also mentioned Örvarsson Örnarsson, who has made himself real in the great world and has returned home because it's good to live in Akureyri and all that. There is another one that hangs on the stick as well. They say we have to put more eggs in the basket, and this may be part of the ability to lift this up a little bit, i.e. Movies and creative articles. I especially want to mention what is involved in my study of music. We know who have worked in elementary school that music is an article in a basic school that may not have had what would be desirable, and music instructors have just been fighting for their rights and have been difficult to achieve against proper agreements with rural society. I think we should just pay attention to it because it's all hanging out, how we can make it work. I'd also like to say that the production of film music is a new job on Akureyri. There are other composers that will be able to be there and apply to recording their music there and that has given very good results, the remaining part, I know. That's what matters. Hv. A senator also spoke, without me going to rephrase his entire speech, Húsavík, who really struck through, and we're all very proud of it. It is vital in this discussion that we remember these achievements, for this is nothing but an accomplishment. If I go back to the committee's opinion, it's clearly been done well in the stitches on how to proceed with the reimbursement. The total production costs should be taken into account, as described above. 2.g. The law of the law, and it can be considered as a basis for reimbursement of total production costs in the European Economic Areas, including Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. However, it is conditional that more than 80% of total production costs fall to this country. This applies both to movies and television. This is the best part. But there is also apparently a question about one stone after another because the Ministry has appointed a group of work to appreciate the current reimbursement system. This will be in line with the procedure No. 6 last year at the 2030 movie convention and was adopted. The Commission's review of this case, the labour board, directs it to the Ministry that the staff will also be assigned to review the implementation of the changes associated with these reimbursements, how it works in the European Economic Areas and to see if the management process is sufficiently accomplished, or whether there is a need for further requests for applicants, especially for data, on the basis of the basis of the basic payment. The Commission's opinion of overpaying is discussed, and it is good to understand that finding out what to count and what not is a little complicated. Especially now that we've been in the Korean epidemic, the whole system is a little different and it can be difficult to throw away all the factors to take into account because at the same time we've had various Covid actions that might improve the measures involved. This is relevant and, for example, in this respect. dealt with the levels of income that were so-called Covid actions. So the plan - the committee asks for it - is that the staff to set up the Ministry also consider whether there is a danger of overpaying and how to deal with it. It's a question of whether it will be possible to have perspective. At some point, we will have to go through the handle so that we can look through the details of the arrangements so that this can be a little tricky. But then there's maybe what I think is my favorite part of it. There are definitions of terms and terms and other things that I sometimes feel lack so that we're all on the same page, just like this in our case here at the General Assembly. This includes explaining the need for wording, and I really appreciate the good handling of words, e.g. says the committee, with permission of the president: ▪ It was noted that instead of the word, a more appropriate opportunity was made to obtain information via the reference to the information needed to find a way to improve costs on the basis of the laws and regulations involved. The committee agrees with that view and suggests a change in its content. There's no other way to say that this is a good thing and here's a new proposition that we're going to make so hopefully finish. But I would like to go into what is going on with our jobs, which are in the Council of the North, and especially how Iceland is well introduced when it is being given a reward for movies, literature, and other things. It's a pleasure that Iceland is often at times even in the lead, and I especially remember Hildur's Guðnadóttir when she was honored for her work. Her contribution was very enjoyable. This is significant because it sets a pattern in this regard. The second thing is that right now, people's environment is changing as to how they want to live, and that's why it's very important for us to do well what we often call creative articles. We began by my opinion a little late to draw attention to it. For e.g. High school kids are not organized until maybe even at mid - school, although I know that there are teachers in between, which have an area of interest, they present and teach creative articles. Although it is traditional, they use creative thinking to initiate certain factors. Of course, if we take a little back and reflect on the effects of the northern Symphonian band and the achievements that have been accomplished there, this has resulted in fun consequences, positive results, so as to attract more people, especially youths in music school. I know that music teachers in Akureyri have been diligent in introducing the various musical instruments to young students in elementary school so that children have the opportunity to study music. Another thing I have always looked up to is that the music teachers go to school, so the children's parents are often free from having to drive children to a special music school. There are some factors that play in and follow up, we can say. This is a very good thing. These are opportunities for young people. Another point is that when films are being filmed in Iceland in time of brilliant equipment, that is, of course, an enormous land presentation. It takes only one person who takes from himself what he reveals, and then we may receive ten others who want to come and take the land home. It's all about this, so it's not that we can offer perfect facilities in as many areas as possible, it's called a movie studio, I've talked about the Symphonic Orchestra of North America and our perfect studio in Hofi in Akureyri, and we must never forget about Húsavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u85	V.E.G. President. We here discuss temporary reimbursement of filmmaking. I am both kind and obliged because I am on a job committee and on the committee's opinion of the subject that is also under discussion. In other words, that is the best and in so many ways. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to establish the objective and subject of the bill that is somewhat like this, with the permission of the president: In line with the indication from the above report by the Management Board, the subject of the bill deals with the following points. [...] The bill also focuses on the improved provision of public funds, monitoring, and explaining the value of the reimbursement system. [...] The bill includes a tribulation in the term production costs, making it possible for reimbursement assessments not only to be seen to what costs are being reimbursed in the sense of income tax laws but also to determine which cost are considered to be the production costs of stocks to be reimburse and which are not. The bill for reimbursement in Iceland includes changes in the law of No. 43/1999. These issues are being jumped up, involved, and developed. How positive it is that our opportunities to make movies are rich because of our global status, because of special natural beautys in Iceland, or grossly broken nature, and so on! It's also land espionage and growth for those who want to go into this industry here at home. This is a good message for young people who can see that there is the possibility of earning money as they work on something they are interested in, which is naturally positive. Why do I say that? Perhaps because I was young, I remember having been involved in filmmaking myself. I was very interested in acting, and I was going to become an actor, but I am now active in this theater, temporarily, but that is in another way. At that time, I was told that it was really just an act of play, and I should try to get an education in something that would be pragmatic, that you could make some money of it. Then I began to do something else altogether. I took the lead in these matters, but I always felt a little regret because those were good times. It's proving today that the world of drama sells too. Good movies, plays, and entertainment can be sold. For some reason, people want to watch good movies and paintings. I have told my children that they should learn what is in their minds but that they should not always be thinking about practitioners. It is only a joy to say that two of them are part of this art world. It's a bit joyous, too, to go over, even though there are not many reviews, they're all in the same direction. I cut down on the review from the Industrial Association, with the permission of the President: The United States rejoices that there will be no further payment on film reimbursement until 2025. Movie reimbursement has become a crucial factor in the competitiveness of Icelandic films. The organization also wants to promote satisfaction by considering raising the reimbursement rate with the aim of attracting larger film production projects to the country and having the UI appointed two members of the Department of Employment and Neoplasms who have those issues to consider. The organization supports the controversial bill and the changes it involves. In the early stages of the case, the organization made serious comments on the facts, including the changes in various aspects of the law. on the definition of production costs. After a good and upbuilding consultation on the part of the Department of Employment and Development of the U.S.S. and SI, a positive change has been made in the regulations presented. Thanks to the Ministry's hearing and comments were taken into account. There's been a positive response. This is the same as in other comments. The review of the Industrial Association reveals this by getting larger film production projects on the land and all the secondary jobs and everything around them. Then I'd also like to talk about what happened here, but I know it well, coming from the country where films have been made that have gone well. There's so much land presentation or so much structure for these areas. Visitors arrive after the films have crashed and want to see where they were made. Because I come west of Snæfellsnes, I have films that have been made in Flatey, Brefjörður, at least three that I remember in a hurry, e.g. ... sothat the traffics west of Flatey have increased very much. The film that Ben Stiller made famous and was taken in the west too, a lot in Stykkislmi--a man is still seeing people take photographs of the places that were most prominent in it. It tells you this has worked all over the world. This is the positive part of it. Not only is it fun to watch a good movie but it also increases the value of people coming to see where the film was made. We can see that, for example. Just at Húsavík now with this Euroviation movie. Húsavík is in there today because of it and this is how you might continue to count. The future in this sector is bright, I'd say, and that's why we should be built. Also, there are different kinds of people who like to work, as well as how much money they earn. It's not all the way it was 40 to 750 years ago. Therefore, as in this case, you should monitor what is selling and what you want to look at and build up for it. I see a very bright future in Iceland being in the lead of these issues, as it has actually been. After a certain achievement for us Icelanders, who were not in filmmaking, but in handball, Iceland was said to be the greatest country in the world. I'd say we could also become the biggest country in the world in the film industry if things were handled correctly. All of a sudden, I run back to my James Bond film that was taken here in Iceland, but she totally struck out as an ad for the country. V.E.G. President. Because I'm talking about reviews, I'd like to cut down for a review from Iceland. It says, by permission of the president: It is Iceland's assessment that the results of the recycling system have been good. This is consistent with the results of the analyses that have been completed showing that the system has a positive effect for both Icelandic filmmaking and the community as a whole. The mission has been a success of the role of the U.S.A. to increase the export of the people and improve the country's reputation as a source of goods, and to improve the reputation of the country's origin in a professional language, that's well said, - service and culture and destination for tourists. At the same time, the vast number of international movie and television filmmakers who have participated in national projects have strengthened the infrastructure and increased knowledge of national filmmakers who have strengthened their position on the global market. Thus, over the past few years, there has been a significant increase in the number of foreigners hired to serve in foreign assignments as well as in distribution of Icelandic projects to show them locally. - It's working in every direction, even for people's potential to get a job out in the big world. In addition, a local laboratory has identified the indirect effects of strong foreign and domestic movie and TV shows in Iceland in research on environmental factors in tourism. A report from September 2020, which examines the demographics, tourism, and attitudes of tourists in 2019, suggests that four out of 10 tourists named an Icelandic landscape in an animation when they were asked to determine the source of the idea that Iceland had come. Then the projects themselves have considerable direct effects during action and include the following: contributes to improved infrastructure use for out-of-the-house tourism. - That's even where it comes from. ... tohavethemoneytocome here, as I mentioned earlier, because they've known the country through motion pictures or other factors. A local laboratory rejoices that there will be a future reimbursement for film making and that you will thus be able to comply with the results that have been achieved. Iceland's Office calls attention to a discussion in the bill's report that those producers who are reimbursed at the production costs of an Iceland lab, without cost, have access to a covering material related to their projects. This source is very important for the work of an Iceland lab and has benefited from further projects on the movie and television industry as well as in other presentations activities. - Iceland's office is saying that it would raise their work to advertise Iceland as a promising option.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u86	I wanted to come up here and thank you. A senator is a great man for a good speech. I decided that he mentioned his own experience in this sector and that he had ended up in another theater. I found these words interesting in view of the fact that the parallel is quite possible. I thought of a respectable president who has worked in a second theater, the court hall. It may be the theater of law. Hv. A senator mentioned his own career and career as a younger man and then chose his children. In fact, I believe that if you choose a subject that you really are interested in, you will be good at it. There may be a problem. A senator could have ended up as the finest actor. Regarding the structure of jobs, it must also matter what messages we send to our young people and perhaps just right away to our children's childhood. Of course, the senator's point of turning children toward what we believe is practitional may change over time. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament whether it is also relevant for the job structure what message we convey to our children, whether we are firm in it, and whether governments are also to be specific about the fact that children have a broader framework for looking into.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u87	President wants less of it. A member of Congress assumes that he is expected to address the president at the outset.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u88	V.E.G. President. I'm a member of the Northwestern District and I'm very proud of it. I want to thank you. paritaprevir You must kill Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir for answering. Because she mentioned that I had mentioned my own experience and what I wanted to do and then what effect we had on our children when we were giving them advice on what they would take in their lives, I just wanted to make clear what I told you to do in some way that the child's mind is and ask what it would be like to do rather than give them advice in that direction that is practitional. Because we're discussing the filmmaking then there's a completely different time since I was in it. It was some time around 1978, 1979, and 1980 that I was involved in this. Those years were called, reminds me, springly Icelandic films. Then some good pictures came out, and the people who refused to participate in it felt something special. But today, it's just a business in so many ways, and there are so many aspects of this sector that people can specialize in. So I'm giving advice to all those who are interested in studying in this direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u89	A respectable president. First, I'd like to apologize for properly forgetting to address the president, that was a way of making mistakes on my part. The opportunity in this article is truly open, and I am confident that the article will grow even more. Yet, at times I have found it interesting to discuss filmmaking - and actually just culture in its entire life but talk about movies now - that at times it is spoken in such a way that the article begins to give us real income is something that awaits us in the future. Then again, I would like to refer to what was presented in a fine speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, who referred to a study of Ágúst Einar Einarsson, who has published a book on the economic effects of film making that directly traces to governments already - or a few years ago, for Covid and the reality we are dealing with today - income that is considered to be billions of dollars. One of the main conclusions in this study is that by investing and giving specific support to the article, we can begin to see that this is such a strong article that he allowed himself to talk about the big business in that regard. That's interesting to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u90	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I heard only an appeal from this talk by reason of it. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's request concerning Einarsson's Ágúst did not quite quite get the point. I just need to read it, so I'll learn more about what it's written. Yeah, why can't this industry, movie, not just be the next of us Icelanders? Clearly, in so many ways throughout the world this industry is doing something so positive. He's advertising the country, he's making money, he's creating something in us that we call art, a special hobby in many ways. That's just another section inside yourself that goes into action when you're in these matters, and that's very rewarding. So this will find a new channel that I think is in most of us. I could believe it and just say that our next major industrial project in Iceland is film making. Whether we've been late? It may well be. The sound of the house may have a bit of a control here, too. At times, some features have occurred outside the great world when we Icelanders have been caught alive. It's probably just the same as anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u91	Mr. President. I'm just going to go back to the place where my talk had been changed. I've just made up a very interesting subject on the economic effects of the movie arts in a publication by Ágúst Einar Einarsson, where he's doing things in the movie industry, that they're being widely, in production of graphic material, in distribution, in shows, etc., we know, and all these jobs are important. Then there are the extra jobs or jobs related indirectly to films, as in the introduction to hosting, moving, and restaurants, and a variety of services in the movie industry. These are all very important jobs, especially in a country where movies are being taken. Then this will be a substantial injection into the bank accounts of the rural and service partners that are close to the location where the film is taken, so these are secondary jobs. Ágúst Einarsson writes with permission of the president: In economics, these jobs are sometimes linked together by multiples. The effects are considered to be an external demand that triggers the economy in indirect and secondary terms. Thus, there are other jobs. In most cases, self - abuse is needed, and only to contribute to a normal setting without prowess, that the situation for companies is an incentive to keep out activities, including taxably and that they have a good environment for which they can expand their work. Go on, Ágúst says: It should also be noted that in the economy jobs and others disappear, depending on the growth of demand and how it is produced. Work market is looking for balance, including In real-time pay. Officials can promote demand, e.g. with increased progress or tax loss, or reduced demand with less activity and tax increase. Official funds thus play an important role in the economy and in the financial policy of public members, i.e. The bank of money, the decision is to make key aspects of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the government of the United States. All of this is said in a clear and simple way when it comes to taking the most important things in the government of the government. Despite the above warnings against overemphasizing the activities of the single sector, the film industry, such as other employment, is a major workforce in a wide network of industry and has influence in many places. Early evidence is unconcerned about the need for public members to support cultural activity, such as filmmaking, including the U.S. Because there is high prices and cultural activity, there are important elements in the identity of each nation as well as their economic importance. How well that is expressed! Then it says: It is also important to keep in mind the majority of their productions, and often more than that, in the form of taxes in the form of activities, it is important to keep in mind - ◯ Whether it is available for purchases and/or services or pay. A number of people work in the film industry, and we must not forget that. In the film industry, the income of this industry is considerable, the tax pay of the state, and therefore pay is very important. ▪ Iceland has a lot to offer refugees, especially rare nature. However, the field ministry has become much more diverse, and cultural and cultural services are often discussed, which indicates that cultural experiences are especially presented, such as art shows. Music and movie holidays are examples of this. On the average, tourists who are primarily looking for cultural experiences spend more money on their travels than other tourists are, and they are still around for a while. All of this has multiple factors that matter, and the filmmaking is of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u92	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of changing the law on temporary reimbursement to filmmaking in Iceland. Of course, it is clear to all of us, and it has been noted earlier in this discussion that there are huge interests in life. The opportunities are incredible in the global production of movies that take place where the environment is designed to form a good background, or the studios are designed to make good facilities. In the presence of technical knowledge and the ability to support filmmaking, the human race, the opportunity is incredible. Here in Iceland, we have all three factors, especially two of them, up to ten. On the basis of their size, we have highly educated moviemakers and technicians and all the people working in this environment. In recent years, experience has been built up with countless pictures and features and other items that have been adopted in this country. Of course, there is evidence that in the studios, although they have become bigger and better and bigger and more technologicalized in recent years and laters, there is no doubt there is room for growth, but what we have most, and more than most of the nations, of course, is the extraordinary nature of the background or environment of any type, whether it is Game of Thrones or a movie that is supposed to take place in space. For most types of films, you will find an environment that is right for you. It is obvious to everyone how much this sector and the companies that have been working in it in recent years. A couple of of these things, if we just look at the international fields, are the so - called remunerations, which are often on time key when it comes to determining where a movie or a series of events should be recorded. It's so close, we just see the effects that this has. There's a series of events in Stykkisolmi, and it's the center of town while it's running. The same is true in every town after other country, where the movie company has actually affected the economy of its specific area during filming, and then, of course, the companies in this business already operate in the pursuit and other activities of this country. But later, the secondary influences that we tend to forget during a discussion at the Council that is now possibly the most in the final analysis. It is the secondary effects of the land presentation when films or a series of programs are recorded here on the land, and those who watch see the energizing nature that is in the background of the movies, and the environment. The travelers who continue to leave behind a valuable currency, travel through the country, and strengthen all infrastructure, which, of course, enables us to build ourselves up even better than before, and our locals can have even more service, especially in the regional settlements in a country where some connection will exist, and so on. Of course, this complete evaluation should take place. A comparison of reimbursement must be important in times of trial. Because I'm not in trouble. I have not had the opportunity to observe in itself the discussion that took place in this regard. However, the extension regulations here suggest that the length of reimbursement is moving from 2021 to 2025, sr. 7. par., of course, greatly increase awareness of the whole matter. One would think that it would be intended to achieve the goal of applying more work that has this widespread local impact in the sector during the follow-up, where it takes place in this country, and then for a long time, in the long future, in regard to land culture, so remarkable in all of this. Of course, there have been other analyses of these events from time to time when the remuneration ratios have been extended over time, but for some reason the Irish are formed, which were mentioned in kitchen days in a different context, with a higher payment rate than the Icelanders. It claimed that there was a reason why an assignment that, if I understood correctly, should actually take place in Iceland be picked up by our cousins. The important thing is that we look at such decisions in general. There is evidence to suggest that any reimbursement taking place is an encouragement to bring about this type of activity. But eventually, the project needs to create a net benefit, and it can only be a short time if we look at the economic impact of the time taken, or the post-recycling period if it takes place in this country, but it is, of course, far more difficult to cover the longer benefits of land production. Of course, it is perfectly obvious and real. The value of various coverages, various coverages in the world's media, television, radio, Internet, and so forth are tried to improve. It is in itself known to some degree. I think we did well in digging into what the long - term benefits are, though these will never be counted on two extras, it is likely that to some extent we can take the lead in considering the effect. Of course, if the evaluation reveals that the benefits are not present, we will also seriously examine the wisdom of these factors. Well, fortunately, the shorter time effects are actually getting pretty close to at least The net's on zero. But then we owe all the longer effects of getting here the movie projects, the showmaking, and so forth, the long - term landscape. There are, you've been tracking it for years, various companies in this sector that serve these projects, Kukl I think one name, True Noth another, and so on. All of them are the companies that are full of tops and the envelopes these companies receive from the foreign companies that are bought by the service are designed to make me believe that it contains considerable economic value in addition to the cultural and knowledge that is built up by this. But the economic value is significant, as it is, of course, so when it comes to film processing, I am absolutely sure that Iceland and Icelandic companies with their excellent employees could be on the lead in many areas in that regard. That's the picture I think we have to watch. Now, I've never had time to look at a report I know was done on these matters a few years ago, but I'm afraid that men may be overly interested in overstimating the short term effects of this project if we look at the remunerations that arise here in the first two phases I've mentioned. I suspect the trend is that the long-term effects are underestimated. The work being done here and shown years ago are still drawing large groups of people across the country. Of course, we know all the effects that the Nona book had on Germany's interest in Iceland and Icelandic culture. Movies taken here, in Icelandic and Icelandic, can have the same effect. Of course, there is another type, but the end result is the same; there is a growing number of interested people in land and nation, the number of people who come here and take us home, and the number of jobs in the country is increasing. It doesn't matter whether here are guests because they became so fond of the Nona and Men books of their time, and indeed still, or whether they come here because they saw a film taken up in Icelandic nature. This is all a clean addition to the Icelandic economy. We need to pick up and cultivate such improvements because if we don't, this growth will be very little, for, of course, it's an export. Of course, the Icelandic film industry or the foreign film projects here are nothing more than exporting, exporting knowledge, workforce, and thus making plans for the future a lot of the amazing nature we have here. I'd like to mention in this context that while you're looking here to extend the life span of the law, if you're looking at 7. g., and make other adjustments and snouts of the system as it is, it would be wise for the next government to enter a deep analysis of where, what to say, the cutoff point is about long-term impact. The first and second phases are relatively easy to distinguish. Much of this is evident only in values and other such, and the work being done on these projects. The longer the effect, however, is much more difficult to possess than there, I think that the real benefits lie when considering the whole issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u93	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland. I'm going to say that this is the best part of a movie industry in the country, so that filmmaking has taken on a lot of weather and seems to have a good future as a profession that attracts talented people and can offer very varied jobs where there are pay which may require that talented people come to work in this article. The movie has long ago proved its value as an art form. Then there is much industry to produce entertainment, and we know that in modern times the so - called array of materials has developed. They need a wide variety of material for their subscribers, so this requires a great deal of work on filmmaking. That's very desirable for us Icelanders. Of course, as a result of the fact that we have a lot of talent and skills in this area and can offer very desirable places for filming, because of the beautiful nature of our country, it is clear that there is a great opportunity for Icelandic filmmaking. This is an article that makes everything happen to produce jobs, income, currency, that I don't talk about taxes in the state funds to live under the welfare system and other important matters. This is a matter: An arrangement adopted, most likely in 1999, on reimbursement as defined. This is an official support system in this article and is likely to be justified because work, income, land reporting can produce income in a government fund, which may even be possible. is least less than the cost of a government fund because of this reimbursement. The bill gets good reviews. I testify, for example. in the review of the Industrial Association and the EU filmmakers. The latter is a member of the aforementioned organisation. This organization rejoices that the law on reimbursement is not extended until 2025. The review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Movie credits have many significances and are crucial to the competitiveness of Icelandic films. At the same time, the organization wants to promote satisfaction by considering raising the reimbursement rate with the goal of attracting larger film production projects to the country. Mr. President. As I mentioned about them, 1999 was originally accepted by law; it has been extended several times, whereas the current law applies in 2021. A bill report says, with permission from the President: The law includes a government aid system, but all such laws should be reviewed regularly for the necessities and impact. Mr. President. One report attributed the law that at one time the law was designed to set up an impulse system to promote filmmaking in Iceland and attract foreign filmmakers. In addition, the system was supposed to serve national and foreign filmmakers alike, encourage the development of the industry over the years, and be involved in furthering domestic filmmaking with the possibility that foreign companies could benefit from land activities. It continues to say that the purpose of the law is to promote the growth of domestic culture. In addition, a presentation of the country's history and nature is referred to by temporary support of movies and television programs produced here on the country. Mr. President. The vast increase in the recent years is considered, especially in foreign projects that can indicate the quality of the recovery system and its global competitiveness, as mentioned in the report. I'm going to say that maybe it would have been better to submit an analysis that showed what they say, but I'm not going to question the truth of these claims. Furthermore, it is suggested that the minister of the seminary had the opportunity to study the western sea, in the city of the angels of Los Angeles, a attitude in these matters. There is a view that the system under which this is used, but there are parallel systems in other countries, factors that are simple and effective. It is also noted that Iceland's attitude was thought to offer unique and desirable natural take-off sites and to praise Icelandic service companies and professional workers and good workers. Of course, it is fine that foreign people know of the opportunities in this country. We know that Iceland has made a good reputation in the movie world, where competition is the most competitive thing in the United States. It also leads to the fact that this industry gives artists great opportunities, not only actors as interpreters, but also creative artists. We saw the fine Icelandic musician who went for victory and took on each of the prizes of his music in this field, as well as the natural director of Icelandic directors who have made the park famous. We are discussing this matter in a somewhat different context than that of artistic origin. We are actually considering the basis for which it is proposed by Government Accounting, which makes it even more fascinating for us as members of the general body to approach this as a project that is involved in tailoring a potential problem of the system, specifying terms and providing a strong monitoring of the legitimate cost of the projects applied for reimbursement. Public opinion requires that only the cost of public pay is considered to be a reimbursement not to be a miscalculation to the taxpayers who have been involved in the production of films or TVs. Of course, that's not a problem. To that end, including Direct this bill. Of course, there must be plenty of space. It continues to be noted that the main purpose of the original law was to promote the knowledge of national filmmaking through cooperation with foreign professionals and that by attracting foreign filmmakers, Icelandic professionals can be trained to do their own jobs in this area, improve the instruments of the movie industry here, and establish Iceland, the nature of the country, and the Icelandic civilizations, with the involvement of major foreign filmmakers. Most of this has now gone on and on. Mr. President. We are living in a time of rapid change. It is predictable that what is commonly spoken is sometimes referred to as entertainment. There is a great opportunity to handle projects that can create income, create employment, can cash into the country, and tax returns into the state's budget. It discusses that there is considerable competition between countries, markets, and cities around the world to get foreign producers to film, TV, and other graphics. The point is that there are a number of reasons, but the main thing is that projects are professional, currency-making, and that the country gets its presentation abroad, which can turn into a more positive image and increase the income of tourists if it is successful. Mr. President. I'm going to finish this by saying that there are some things I have to go over so that I wish the president would put me back on the rosary. I give you the hope that this excellent bill, supported by the Central Class, will be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u94	V.E.G. President. I've been wondering a little bit about the middle class interest in filmmaking. I didn't think they'd been to a movie theater since the last town in the valley was shown in Tannarbio, but filmmaking has changed much since the film of Óskar Gís son of Gíslason. It is true that filmmaking is a real industry. This is an important industry, an export branch, and it is important for us to be competitive in this, like any other branch. I haven't figured out from the council speeches here whether the Central Party is speaking for this bill the way it is, or whether they're going to contribute more money or less. What really is being asked for? What do the Middle Class think it is proper to do? Every time we go to reimbursements or any tax appeals we're very busy with, in order to promote our competitiveness - we'll always be crazy if the Icelanders get the tax will in other countries, it's like any other crime, as peculiar as it is. But what's the right number? Could we be going too high? Are we going too low? You see, it's not quite simple. We must also ensure natural competitiveness; we must not confuse competition with competition, either. It's a bit of a problem. Now I'm fighting an economist. Where's the limit? Can you tell a ignorant senator about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for the answer. He must realize that the Central Party is very interested in filmmaking from the moment we watched the great Show of Scener from a show. He named the last town in the valley by Óskar Gíslason. It's very interesting. A senator does, names this masterpiece, and the great and good author of Icelandic Gíslason, which was a review of fantastic television programs in ten parts of Icelandic film history, far more remarkable than many may have realized. But, hey. A senator must remember the shows Swedish Scener from making a vote with Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson. Over this time, the Icelandic family and home spent a week in waiting for their serious marital problems to be solved. You can't look at such a masterpiece like that and the last town in the valley any different than the fact that you're living with the rest of your mind for movies, shows and artistics in this regard, that I don't talk about me and the middle-classers being so nighted for reason as well. I now have the privilege of having the chairman of the council in the hall to listen to those words, and I somehow feel that he agrees with me. It's not that we're talking about an article that can create not only artistic rhythms and entertainment but also outright money income, I covered it many times in my speech, earning money for people, good jobs and well - paid jobs, currency and tax returns, why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u96	The president points out that in general the New World Translation is the matter of Congress. To translate titles into pictures is an art form, so the president excuses it, but he points out why. A member of the Facebook team Bylt state who may be able to make a good impression on this fine Swedish art.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u97	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson told me that the Middle Class are very interested in films, and this is a very good explanation, excellent factors, and a great movie, the last town in the valley. Moviemaking has become a major industry, and perhaps in contrast with many other articles that we sometimes call creative articles - indeed all articles are creative - there are different possibilities for our export, in terms of earning a currency. But the film industry has become the biggest part of it, and perhaps even video games. Of course, there are ample opportunities to produce a serious work article from it. It's so important that we compete with other countries, and this bill is about it. But there is always a question of how far it needs to go. Now I understand there's a tearing walk in this, some talk about adding, moving this up to 35%. Some say that it is a tearing process that makes us completely competitive. While there may be one country that has higher reimbursement, there may be other things that are more unpleasant there than here, etc. We have very well-educated moviemakers. We just need to remember that our competitiveness is not diminished. That is so many articles. That's why I've always said that the key to politics is to create a competitive environment instead of running state affairs for everything or direct expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u98	Mr. President. I'm gonna catch the ball right where it's at. A senator divorced him. The work of the Generals is to provide practical conditions for employment. There are plenty of men who come to this talk chair and to another location, saying: We need to make our own jobs. The case is that the Generals do not produce any work. Jobs exist, and men can, e.g. See how an article sprang up and grew as if by itself because it had a good condition, especially because it received free publicity around the world because of the volcanic eruption that no one could promise, the Eyjafjölókull. But because of words, the highest. At that time, I was referring to a very dramatic and memorable Swedish television program. That's right, I carried for myself their name in the Swedish language, Mr. Scener on a firmness, which could, in a casual sense, be a part of marriage. This won't forget anybody who saw it. Hv. paritaprevir Níelsson's Brynjar has got it on video for sure, and it was really fun. The key point is this: This is a business, it needs to be prepared in a practical way. Of course, no one knows if a 25% share is true. I heard it like a dog. A senator mentioned the proportion 35% with reference to Ireland and that the Irish had crashed assignments that we would have liked to receive. [[The president calls.]] There was a Viking film, as mentioned, with the world - famous actress Kidman Nicole and Stellan Skarsgård of the Swedish. [[The president calls.]] I don't know about this, but I allowed myself in my speech to be a little critical of the bill's report for not being too much an analyst but, rather, too much on statements. [[The president calls.]] A slightly higher analysis would have been an improvement. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u99	V.E.G. President. It's hard to come up after a discussion, as has been the case with factors and movies that I think were in black whites, but at least I don't remember doing this even though I'm now this old one, but it's just like it is. Here we will discuss some changes and maybe what I like best about this whole matter, explaining the rules of the game and extending the support. Of course, as we have seen, there is always a question of who the numbers should be, how the rules should be. We are competing on this market, competing with other countries for the location. If we don't want to compete in the percentages, we have to do something better, or we don't necessarily do anything better, we have to make use of something else that we have, let's put it that way, I think men are doing it really well, as shown in my first speech. Whether it's an Iceland lab or anyone else, people are doing a big job, as we've seen. I also wondered, " Could there be anything else in the environment that we could do, adapt our competitiveness if it is a problem, but I admit I don't know it? ' However, I have full faith that there are good people outside this house who are constantly wondering how we can enhance our competitiveness when it comes to film and film making. I'd like to mention something else about this, because some aspects of the film sector have to do with it, that's the electronic game. Here was recently held a huge tournament in a video game called the League of Legends, but there's something about the department of the best or something like that. There I hear, according to the news, were purchased or ordered some 8,000 nightly nights in Icelandic hotels. Tens of millions of people are watching a live feed from these games, and there were Icelandic companies who obtained jobs in the installation and management of technology, set up and conduct these games, and broadcast them. These are companies who may also be working on films and television shows. They're designing graphics. There's maybe Icelandic nature or Iceland's pictures all together, and then there's music, and even though I don't remember what it is, I think I can claim that some Icelanders were writing music for video games. I feel like I've been informed about that. I'd also like to mention in this context - men discussed here before the last town in the valley, which, of course, is in our movie story a remarkable picture, and really amazing, but the world is changing very quickly. There's been a lot of technology. It's a lot of technology you don't even know the names that people use today. That's what computer games have to do with it. It uses tremendous technology. Of course, we should also try to be ready to attract such activity to Iceland. But I'd like to mention it, since I had the chance, that we should also watch that there are hundreds or thousands of Icelanders today, young people in particular, who are playing electronic sports in Iceland. The sport is growing. It's a pleasure to see that the outside is very good, that I think, you know, people like to be good at the electronics. We are to support these members in reaching out to those who are not interested in the traditional sports or leisure activities we know. Of course, there are plenty of people who don't feel it. Is it not better, then, for them to be in sports, though some call it electronic sports, to compete in the games they are good at, flashy, even in foreign conventions? This is a League contest in the rest of the games and there are people who have not found themselves in traditional activities or sports. We are to make sure that we accept these and other forms of sports. I think we're here to reach a group we might not have reached out to but, of course, we should create a very good frame around these sports as well as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u100	Madam President. Of course, this case we're discussing here is not just new. There is experience with this in 1999, and this was when, of course, there was much progress. Although the intervening situation has changed, this law, which was introduced more than two decades ago, has proved its value and has done so very well. In this bill and report, it is a good point to address the President's comments and criticisms on this arrangement. I'm not going to go into that very technical practice, but it's only a step toward how governments have taken the indication to the extent that it appears in this bill or not, because it involves a government support system, and as the report says, it calls a review of the laws of the law on the subject not only for the reexamination but for the development and change. More important, the pay rate has increased from 12% to 12% at baseline after the legislation was adopted in 1999 to 14%, then 20%, and then it rose to 25% in 2016. Of course, the competition has increased at the same time, since more countries and regions in countries have seen opportunities in these areas. As a result, the competition is greater than the results that Iceland has achieved in this area, however, helps us to compete. The advantage that we have achieved with experience in this activity relatively soon, over 20 years ago, helps us to maintain it even though the estimate was that higher competition called for higher payoff rates. We should keep in mind that this is a reimbursement of a bit of tax that might otherwise have been due to the fact that there was an incentive here that put Iceland on the map and one thing led to another. I believe, however, that it can still be done on the level, so to speak, regarding the results of this project and with Icelanders, we should allow us to encourage a certain opportunity for filmmaking in this country, whether it is, domestic or foreign manufacturers, especially for opportunities related to our culture and history, because by such association, the effects of this bill and the original law are intended to achieve them much more. In other words, I think there might be quite some of those who are working in the market for us Icelanders and people in this business to point out big opportunities, such as. The Icelandic narratives, that men make here real fancy dumb-ass movies based on Icelandic history. In recent years, I think the market for it has greatly increased. We have examples of such images, e.g. The outlaw and Viking photos like the raven flies. Even though these pictures have been produced considerably less money than we see in modern films in Iceland, they have had a place that I seem to be growing stronger, and these films and other older Icelandic films are still being paid attention, including some of them. of foreign audiences. A lot of people are familiar with the fact that, when they hear you're from Iceland, they've met Sweden. says an immediate knife, a heavy one, and most of all knows the land through the raven flies. I believe now there is a chance to use our Viking heritage in Iceland and, in particular, the international stories are growing to a great deal, including the U.S. popular factors that deal with this period, ranging from television programs such as the Vikings, now popular, to superheroes like Þór. It's even, from what I hear, has created a movie about Loki. Another one related to this. Men have mentioned Game of Thrones, I do not exactly remember how it is translated in English, and the Ringdadotian history, and other things that have prepared the soil so that we can increasingly use this inheritance to present our history, culture, and land as our destination. I would strongly encourage us to break this iron while it's hot and even imagine who could be a good director in one of these Icelandic novels, Ang Lee, who has directed images where the sequence of events is in a certain way sometimes a bit of dead bodies and technology that would be needed to make Icelanders' stories decent. Before I discuss this idea of how we can control this iron, I'd like to mention that I also suggest that there will be a time travel film. Time travel photos are always popular if they are well done and I imagine someone going back in time here in Iceland and entering a land mine age or a political age. This would offer many pleasant opportunities, one because a time traveller from our time learned from the past but, of course, that those he met there learned from the future. I can see that the person would benefit from learning how much knowledge was there and what human life could often be saved in difficult circumstances and by doing things with knowledge that we have even lost today. I might go into this later because I can see that my time is running out, but I had thought I'd take a closer look at how this script could work. I have to see if there's any time, because I have to keep going. We'll see in the report to the top. Industrial and innovation ministers have gone to Hollywood last year and received a good welcome welcome, and they have praised the efficiency of this system and have specifically stated that they are satisfied with simplicity and efficiency of the system which is of no less importance than the payoff rate itself. Here I think we can learn a lot from this example, for of course, in a number of other areas where, unfortunately, the practice and simplicity of the system have often declined, and so have taxes and expenditures often gone up. But now people need it in Iceland, when we need a wide variety of industrial creations in as many areas as possible, to learn from examples such as this and what has been right here, and apply it in more ways, simplicity and efficiency. At that time, many more employment fields can produce much more results for national preparation and society. It was also mentioned on this visit to Hollywood that there was a very skilled staff that proved to be successful, would quickly become involved, and work very well and professionally at this production. Another example that can be most widely accepted is that we have so good and powerful people in so many areas, only in many cases will it take more freedom to make use of their knowledge, skills, and professions. More could be drawn up here for what has proved helpful in this work, and I agree. I agree in particular, Mr. President, because I've only been allowed to know that people in this industry and technology in that Iceland are quite excellent and bring people up to the population, and often in times very much fun to watch them work and see the magic that they can make. The wealth and growing use of the material will have considerable impact here and will still increase the likelihood that the production of films and programs will continue to increase. It's something I've seemed to have led to a chain reaction. There's some people here, they're gonna make some shows, and they're gonna be great. This, in turn, increases the chances that the rivals will do the same. This chain of events needs to be maintained, and this case is just fine, although it is still, as I mentioned at the outset, a number of ideas about how Kingdom Accounting will be met. In part, it is in this bill, but it is stated that a team is working on a closer examination of this and that he will submit his proposal to the latter part of this year. Now this issue has been in operation for some of the entire terms of this terms, but the report of the Kingdom Review is published in October 2019. It would have been desirable for men to have finished and to be able to prove what is going to happen in this case rather than have to wait on it. But let it lie in between things. There's a lot of brilliant things in this. However, there is something that I would like to mention in particular, since it is expected to be left before a minister in order to work out certain conditions that the material needs to meet in order to qualify for this support. Now I've lost this sentence, Mr. President, but it's about the material meeting the requirements for a certain cultural effect. It would have been better to have a more specific definition of such things. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I've got a lot left here, so I'll wait for the highest. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u101	Game of Thrones could be translated as the Kuun Games, or the High-Creation Games, there are several possible translations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u102	President. I'd like to move on for a little while, where it's been gone. I put into practice the opportunities available here for filmmakers, and this may not be the case, since the production of films is now very much becoming computerized. We Icelanders have superiors, programmers, and so forth, apart from the fact that technical effects have become much bigger than those of the world, so we have tremendous potential. But it's not only this, but it's also that we've found international funds to do an Icelandic job here. We are doing a job now in Iceland, sometimes in cooperation with other countries and sometimes alone, a work designed to be done in an international market. There I would like to mention a television party, such as. Unable, which has been shown in many parts of the world to be highly famous and appreciated. This is still a direct support for this sector, i.e. that humans have a satisfying task and can plan their time better than ever. We are naturally very far from the time when the Icelandic movie offering was here in Iceland. And as we have seen, for those who doubt the connection between the Central Party with the movies, we are expected to be the only member of the council who has a real film actor inside a table who participated in the Icelandic movie spring, as if he might have killed a little bit on the river with great modesty. The success that has been achieved in the past few years makes it clear to us that the possibility that we can take an active part in filmmaking, i.e. Our artists and techs, increasing day by day, I'd like to say. Since then, we have naturalized what has come to be the product of filmmakers for the past 203/4:30 years, i.e. Icelandic nature, and Iceland has made two Bond movies, if I remember correctly, and other things. So it will not help us to avoid these things because of Icelandic, local, and Icelandic culture. And we will be more experienced and we will earn more than that by working on these events. But I wanted to shoot in here just because the last speaker mentioned something about the need for the Vikings to get into movies, and I can agree that we also have other material that could best fit into international films. I want, for example. A reference to Icelandic crime stories that are now best - selling books on both sides of the ocean, and only these days are Icelandic stories in the top seats on best - selling lists, e.g. Europe, as well as the west of the ocean. In fact, some of these stories have made movies, but there is plenty left. These stories have been given the sound of the fact that I don't doubt that movies based on them on international funding - they fall under the conditions we're confirming in this bill - could become a huge load for both Icelandic society and all the artists involved, from the author of a script or a story to those who participate in the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u103	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of film making laws in Iceland, No. 43/1999. There are cost groups, changes monitoring, etc. These changes are due to the comments made by Government Accounting to rely on the reimbursement, you might call it a tax discount or something. This appears to be the case when movie producers collect and note their receipts, send it to the Icelandic government, and get a part of it paid back. The share that humans can receive is not considered to be sufficiently high by many, but is now up to 25%. In 1999 we began reimbursed the cost of filmmaking, and at the beginning, 12% were reimbursed, soon up to 14% and finally fifth. Today, it is up to a quarter of the cost qualified to meet the requirements required to be appreciated for reimbursement. It is an eternal competition with other countries; some countries offer a higher, more reimbursement, a higher percentage. We must certainly not be submerged by other nations, since people who make movies are not likely to come to this country. But, of course, in Iceland films that show Icelandic landscapes that we have seen in movies in recent years also have a major impact on land introductions. These photos, especially if they become well-known and popular and are made by the most famous directors at the highest cost, can have the effect of increasing travel to Iceland. We've seen an example of this, since Icelandic landscapes are going to be world famous in a moment, and everyone wants to come to Iceland and beat it up. But now, when people arrive, they may not be able to see the landscape with the eyes that the cameras study it. So there may be some other films that are given of the things in movies, and it may never be the same when people arrive. Once you've seen pictures of beautiful places abroad, it often works differently once you're there. I'm not against this case at all, and I think it's a good thing. Of course, the setting must be very fixed and requirements made for the receipts or bills prescribed must be rich so that there is no chance of misuse. Of course, it costs a fortune, and in 2019 it reimbursed $1,400 million. K. So there's a lot of money coming out of that treasure, but of course we have to look at it as the cost that has been paid on the land, bringing good benefits to the others and those who come to the movies. It takes carpenters to build the scene. They need all kinds of people, and they have to pay and cut them, feed them, and they go to the diner. It takes cabs, and this has tremendous effects for injection into society. I'm sure these parties, if we can call them tourists, give them more hand than the average traveler. Of course, it is desirable that in this country moviemakers come. So I think this is a good thing if we want to be competitive with other nations in this area, i.e. if it is handled correctly, and there is no way to abuse this or the pig. But those people standing in this case who are filming and producing these images and behind them are often great liars, and I don't feel sorry for them to have to buy a service without reimbursement, but it turns out that they would just go somewhere else if they didn't get this service on the land, i.e. These refunds. We may be forced, if we want to participate in this, to dance with us in this competition, and I'm all for it, as long as it doesn't go to extremes. I remember when a man went to a cinema as a kid that it was a big experience at the time. It was an event. Now you sit in front of the TV and pick out the pictures you want to watch, and if it's not too exciting or good, you just turn it off and turn it on. So things have changed in recent years. In the old days, the greatest hero who could go to the five movies and then directly from the fifth booth to the seven movies and then into the nine, and the most important of the workers added the 11bon. Then they said, "I went on four pictures today, but usually it was the same picture they saw four times because it was shown at all these times. " This seemed to be an impressive achievement, and the amount of popcorn and cods that were taken on these trips, especially if people were trying to hit those records, was indistinguishable, and, of course, not healthy but overlooked when evaluated. Moviemaking in Iceland has long, and may still have been, characterized by some kind of pioneers and making cheaper movies, as cheap as possible. These times may be passing, but it was so long. The film industry in Iceland will not exist until the end of the last century. It must not be spoken of as industry until, first of all, then. Moviemaking was long closely connected with other activities, it wasn't independent. It was closely linked to photography. It was often closely connected with the theaters, and most important, it was, of course, closely related to the Kingdom Radio after it began work. After the film fund was founded in 1978, the film environment changed dramatically, and it can be said that a film fund more than 40 years ago was the beginning of a continuous film project in Iceland. The first film that came out and received strength from the fund, Land and Sons, is often considered the first real Icelandic film. I don't know if it's true, but it was the first movie ever made a scholarship from a movie fund. However, filmmaking has a much longer history in Iceland, often flourishing frequently, as was the case in the 1940's and 1950's. Many recall such images as 79 of the world's 1960's, which were created in part by Icelanders and by Icelandic actors in the leading role. The history of filmmaking in Iceland was rooted up until 1919 when the Danish film crew came here and filmed the city's history by Gunnar Gunnarsson on the Nordisk Film. In that film, over 100 years ago, Mr President, several Icelandic actors played. Guðmundur Þorsteinsson, Muggur, played one of the leading roles. The movie History of the City Family relates to the basic film industry in that it met Óskar Gíslason, who was then a productive and inspiring filmmaker, the first time in his life. Such factors often lead to the onset of great growth, i.e. that some innovation exists, and then others feed on it, and there will be a beginning of growth in that place. In 1923, the opening film was the first film to be directed and produced by Iceland, the fun film of an Loftur Guðmundsson son of Jón and Gavens, a short film shown as an extra picture in New Rioi. Loftur also made Iceland live in 1925 an Iceland Loftur that was taken in Iceland in the summer before. The Loftur continued to take films, usually short documentarys, but in 1949 it released the picture between a mountain and a beach that was the first full - time Icelandic movie, the first Icelandic speech picture. The first of the Icelanders to learn filmmaking in school, to be known, was the Sigurður of Nordal, who learned at the University of New York film at 1943-9444. He's probably the best-known piece of footage he's ever made from the protest parties out here, Mr. President, the protest at the General House on the Eastfield of 1949. Of course, it is a priceless record of their protests and history. In the latter part of the 1940's, a considerable number of documentary films were published, likely serving the highest rescue effort at the Canary of Death, made by Óskar Gíslason in 1949. The picture tells of the seedy rescue of the local people on the Dots and the vicinity of British shipwreckers from tugger Dhoon, December 12, 1947. The mission of survival has rarely been made so much as described, and the filmmaker's accomplishments must not be underestimated. The lead in the film was that one of the local residents on the West made contact with Óskar after the ship's coast at the Canal and suggested that the rescue effort be set on stage and film. Óskar did not respond to his request at that time for funding to the making, but in cooperation with the local people, he was able to make this port. It was about a year later, at the end of November, that the scenes were held in Kollsvík West. During the films, there was a signal that there was a real beach under the Trembles of the North Sea. There, a violent British tug - off - color tug, Sargon, had taken up their equipment and rushed to Patrek's ground, where they were able to rescue six men from the tugs while 11 were killed. Remember those who died have been freezing their hooks. Thus, Mr. President, the fact that Óskar's film became as real shows that it was not a foretaste of the points of survival itself. The picture was published in many languages and was distributed in many parts of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u104	V.E.G. President. We're gonna have a good case here. I wanted to introduce only the role of the government in filmmaking. Here I pick up a chapter in Ágúst Einarsson, published in 2011 and shed some light on the benefits of building films and especially on attracting foreign moviemakers. First, though, I want to say that this text may be a sign of being written in the capital area when I come to discuss the impact of filmmaking on the country. It is not possible for governments to strengthen filmmaking, e.g. In the United States, there is no national strength or official support for filmmaking. Yet, all of today's most popular movies are produced there. However, in Europe it is very common to support or support filmmaking, and that is almost rule. Here in the country, we have funding for the National Film Center of Iceland and then, as we're talking about here, reimbursement at the cost of film making. Movies can be supported, and there are evidences that support them. It is said that this can be divided into seven categories, reasoning that governments should support filmmaking. It is economics, culture, employment, community, education, geography, and financial matters. The benefits of making films and supporting them are abundant, especially when we discuss this new growth rod, that foreign film companies come to the country to film movies. It has a tremendous impact on jobs, and what happens is that the effects are multiplied on other jobs, secondary jobs in the community, and such films are more effective than those with only direct expenses, if we can put it that way. It is stated in this section that filmmaking can be an important part of regional policy, and I think it's a bit of an interesting perspective, i.e. to use it as a means to improve the variety of employment in the country. Of course, we have the special status that Iceland is large, and there are beautiful places and opportunities to do well filming in the country, and films, of course, are an important part of developing the country. Also, movie - related jobs are not low - paying jobs. True, they insist on working long hours in short periods of time, resulting in further influence on other articles, and this also leads to better use of public resources. It is also this modern - day wind that is lying in it and that allows for the country's settlement. In this chapter, it is said that the use of money is less effective. Maybe that's what I want to put a question mark on. It is very important that we talk about films as a professional because I believe that they have become a professional. I mentioned in my talk earlier today that is recorded in Akureyri in the cultural hall of Hofi, something of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u105	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss the strengths of film ÁgústEinarsson and I looked up a publication published not long ago on the economic effects of film art and read it a little interesting even though it was not a complete reading. I'd like to grab on where it comes to financing, which says, with President's permission: A film is quite unusual in comparison with another business. Normally, companies earn money for their activities by providing their own money, e.g. in the form of the stocks, and/or reimbursed loans over long or short periods. When a company has been working for some time, it can also finance things, or even all its activities, with accumulated profits, or through property sales. In Europe, he goes on to say that significant contributions from public sources are made to strengthen filmmaking. Government policies in Europe are strengthening the film industry, including to protect from the overwhelming influence of American films but also to promote positive external effects in important sectors. It also says: ▪ In the United States, it is usually not an official aid in the production of films, but it is often difficult to sell foreign films on the market, including the U.S. Because of consumer apathy in foreign matter [...] The cost of reimbursement can be estimated at a maximum of 20% of the production costs [...] The international rules bound by the Icelanders require that domestic strength be no more than 50% of the production costs, while a higher percentage is considered to be a competitive conflict to others. [...] In addition to official funding from a movie center and reimbursement because of costs, foreign funds are important, as well as funding from foreign producers or buyers such as television stations, domestics, and foreign countries. [...] This large contribution to funding, in addition, underscores the importance of the film industry in the currency industry. Despite being strengthened by a variety of films, there is no reference to calming down and financing that is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, problem of Icelandic filmmakers and that has been for decades. [...] In many production companies, support factors such as international and international advertising, and renting the equipment available locally and abroad, are of great importance in supporting the development of films in relevant companies. It says that there are many film - industry jobs, including some of them. in production of graphics, distribution, sample production, etc. Then it says: ▪ These include film - related jobs in order to create inmates from other companies, such as boarding houses, moving and restaurants, and a variety of services in the film industry. There are secondary jobs that result from direct and indirect jobs with increased consumption of earners. [...] Economics sometimes link these activities by multiples. The effects are considered to be an external demand that triggers the economy in indirect and secondary terms. This makes other jobs. And it says: In most cases self - discipline is needed and only to promote a normal setting without restraint. This is interesting and is actually a slightly similar thought to what I was discussing in my talk earlier today, where I spoke out of the chest, where this learned man writes it in a text as to how subjugation and assistance in such activities can result in a great deal of valuable creation, as well as the growth of this wealth and the activation of the art goddess in the world, and it doesn't help because the art goddess is what makes life worthwhile.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u106	Mr. President. The discussion is about to come to an end. I think there is reason to reason to assume that these changes in the movie reimbursement system are made with the aim of responding to the comments made by Kingdom Accounting. It was traced to the bill that in October 2018, the National Review Report was submitted to the General Reimbursement and implementation of the project. This report was carried out on the initiative of the Government Reexamination because of the indication of the potential misuse of movie reimbursement systems. The report discusses the reimbursement system of the law, and its conclusions include: to ensure that the practical use of the money submitted to the reimbursement system is important only those projects that fall into the hands of the law will be reimbursed. In recent years, the value of television has increased within the reimbursement system and there has been an increase in numbers with regard to whether the material falls in the aims of the law and the regulations. It is the National Accounting Assessment's opinion that a clearer payment on projects needed to be reimbursed and minimized the risk of a mental view to set the example for reimbursement. The report also says that Government Accounting believes that the government needs to have a high level of control over the legitimate cost of the reimbursement projects. It is important to make sure that only the cost paid by public pay is considered to be a reimbursement of the taxpayer, who has been involved in the production of films or TV programs. There are four types of proposals for State Review, including to further explain the costs of reimbursement in the sense of income taxation. There is good reason to pay taxes on the right tax pay and demand to be checked for official fees due to the accounts that form the recycling of films and TV programs. On the one hand, government reviews consider the need to reimburse the existing management structure of films and to promote cooperation with the government tax manager's office to review the cost of projects that are due to the reimbursement system. Third, government reviewing the costs and costs of film projects and making them want to be reviewed on the basis of temporary reimbursement laws on filmmaking in Iceland and income tax laws. Fourth, it is explained that the National Reconnaissance believes that the funds provided for the seminar are used in the most practical way and that every film and television project needs to be more clearly defined under the recycling system and that it is in line with the law's purpose on this subject. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Kingdom Accounting for a successful job in this. Of course, it is very important that the Council responds to such well - supported and relevant indications from The State's Accounting on the same important and important issue as this subject. This is essentially a very good case, and it is necessary that the support the State wants to provide to support this industry is founded and that's what these suggestions are.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u107	Mr. President. I was telling about it in the memory of the first talk of each song it was in the old days when we kids went to movies, which was a special experience and event. Then they ate an enormous amount of popcorn and coco, and I also told about professionals who had performed two consecutive photos, five and seven movies. But the problem with a seven - biography was that there was no pause, but there was a gap in the fifth and nine - ibex. The nine - biography may have taken a direct turn, but the most successful men also took the 11 - biography. So they took five, seven, nine, and a eleven-boo, and they watched them with great admiration. Then I had a break, so I had a smoky, salty popcorn and a cold cola. I think we've released the tuxes at this time, but certainly we went out and got some salty popcorn and a cold soda. It was a text of a famous song that Laddi and Ladi sang about the year, Roy Rogers. There they took a picture, as the text says. I went on a cowboy movie last night, the excitement was huge, I got mad. At the time, when you were a teenager and there was an event going on a movie, you might have gone to the East Side and looked at Bruce Lee beating all the bad guys. Night after night, the hall filled with young interested people who wanted to look at this great, dazed accomplishment. I remember when men came out of the theater, the whole group ran in all directions and kicked everything in its path, walls, and lamp posts, and into the air. It was quite a special experience, and it would be nice to see if there were any fragments of the release of the kids from the Eastern state after watching Bruce Lee show off her art. Then you lost interest in going to the movies all the time, and just recently that Jackie Chan has shown similar art on the screen with her pictures. Why do I mention him? These are fun films, but also because one Icelandic actor became so famous to play with Jackie Chan himself in the exact way. It was the film The spy next door, and with Mr. President's permission I would just translate what the spy in the next house is, isn't that just an excellent translation of the name of that picture? Magnús Scheving was an evil player in this movie. Magnús has many features in the film industry because, of course, he is famous for being the author of and producing the programs Latatown, where children are focused on and encouraged to live healthy lives. Lat town had a good effect on children for a long time when they were popular on television. Magnús played the sports fairy in the show, took a long walk, high-flip, head and side jumps, and walked on the hands of two in another text. Magnús had before he was a famous athlete. He was one of the original members of the exercise wave that is still running. He was the founder of what was then called tolerance. I don't know where it is today, whether it exists today, now it's all foreign names, cross fats and bootcams and anything like that. But it was Magnús's tolerance. He was on his way to Iceland champion in 1995, and Northland champion, I think, too, and European champion. Yet, Magnús was never the ideal athlete of the year despite his efforts, and many thought this was strange. [[The president calls.]] But for some reason, he never got that title.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u108	Mr. President. In view of my short periods of time, I will use him primarily to point out positive points to this matter, not that I have pointed out much positive things to do in the previous talk. But there are two things I would especially like to say, and there is reason to commend men for looking out for them. On the one hand, as you know, it is customary that by the end of the film, a list of those who played the film and came to the way it was made, techs, and others, but it also shows who have produced, financed, and supported the films. In most cases, the United States has been particularly able to strengthen the films that have been given a tax discount in the 1999 law that we are now extending. However, it is specifically stated in a report that this was not absolute, despite the fact that 1999 law stated that manufacturers are obliged to be supportive. Here I quote directly from the report, by permission of the president: ▪ Tourological research has shown that a large percentage of the tourists coming here had their idea of Icelanding after seeing Iceland in foreign or domestic film or television programs. So it is important that those looking at such material are informed about the link between the material and Iceland. Such presentation of the remuneration system also has value in drawing attention to the system among the manufacturers and thus increasing the number of national projects. I agree with you, Mr. President. When paying such financial support to the manufacturer, it is important to make sure that it is specifically mentioned, especially for these two reasons, that people understand how the country was involved and that other interested producers could see this possibility to maintain the chain of events mentioned in the previous talk. Another factor that I especially wanted to commend and that is mentioned in this report is the fact that film presentations will be allowed to be used to introduce Iceland. The report says: ▪ A local laboratory is designed to introduce the reimbursement system to foreign manufacturers and to implement the film project in Iceland. It is important that producers who are reimbursed at the production costs provide Iceland, without cost, access to the products associated with the respective projects so that they can be used for marketing work, whether it is to attract more movie and TV producers or tourists. I also think it's probably a matter and a very desirable thing to watch out for. Add to that the ever - increasing number of social services now and have a tremendous impact when people are taking pictures in movies. I would have liked to discuss only an impact on the country's landscape and the importance of this article for working in the country, and most of the Icelandic landscapes in the country, which are understood, but I can't reach it here. It might as well have been possible to review the EEA's impact on this case, but better time is needed. I'm content to mention that although this includes government grants, it has been managed to keep within the EU Convention and we were allowed to look for a better implementation of the contract in other sectors of employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u109	Mr. President. I want my second talk at 3rd. to address the financial impact of the situation as tried to evaluate it. First, though, I would like to remind you of what I learned in my first talk about having in mind an assessment of the secondary effects of that land presentation will be due to the work under consideration. I'd like to grab a short hold of the report with the bill. It is thus intended to extend by four years the laws originally given in 1999. I think the duration was extended about four years from the very beginning of the case. But as the report says, with the permission of a president: Although the changes proposed in the bill are expected to not directly result in an increase in expenses for this reimbursement from what has been, it is clear that the expenditure for the reimbursement system can change a lot from year to year, in line with the changing demand for reimbursement at a time. Between 2016 and 2020, annual expenses for this reimbursement have been in the range of 11.7 billion dollars. This year, and has been a budget for these years, which has been around 151,2 billion dollars, although in some cases the law may have had to postpone payments, such as the law's. During 2020, the remunerations increased substantially, reaching a total of 2.4 billion. But that year's budget was over 700 million. K. There was a unique 2.1 billion dollars. additional contributions in 2020 to cover these costs. The budget of 2021 suggests that the budget will be about 1 billion. Of course, this is difficult to estimate, and you have an understanding of it. However, at the same time as budget is expected for 2021 per 1 billion dollars. says the report by permission of the president: In accordance with information from the National Film Centre of Iceland, reimbursement will be set in 2021 estimates of 3.8 billion dollars. But the fund of the year is, as the former say, about a billion years. This should be kept in mind, though, that this is an issue of open language for the year 2018,2021. I refer to it in the light that this is, of course, a cultural strength, whether we call it a tax discount or a direct strength. With the tip to the third phase of what I was trying to draw in my first speech about the long - term long - term long - term effects of land production, this is also a support for the tourism. There, the government seems to put the binoculars to the blind eye. When there are data available from Iceland's film center on the estimated reimbursement in 2021 to 3.8 billion according to the rules, the estimated budget is up to 1 billion. If the conclusion is that it gives them a profit of 3.8 billion reimbursement, I think it would be good if men were to try to form models that would specifically shift the long-term outcome, because the first two phases, as if I drew the approach to my first speech, are more transparent. Of course, there are a number of aspects of the economy, where support would produce a significant increase in the impact and profit of society. The cost of phlegm is often battled, even yearly, but it results in tens of billions of people. I'd like to mention it in this context. Of course, there are more opportunities for investments if we view this as an investment and want to draw attention to how much the movie centres of Iceland differ from donations in budgets for 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u110	Mr. President. They're suggesting a change in the law on restaurants, restaurants, and entertainment, No. 85/2007, and State Fund extras law, no. 88/1191, and registrational licenses, No. 65/2015. This bill is followed by the competitive assessment of the National Economic and Development Institute, OECD, of the Icelandic tourism program as well as of the construction industry. This evaluation was done in cooperation with the Department of Employment and Development and the Contestance. It says that there were 438 guidelines for improving the principle of order, no less or less, that include reducing unnecessary burden of employment and the order of action to support more active competition. This is naturally completely in the spirit of what we in the central category have talked about over and over again, the need to simplify regulations and make companies more able to work and thrive and to compete. It has to be said at the moment, Mr. President, that the government had to get foreign parties to come and look at these cases, i.e. that they have not taken the initiative themselves to try to make things right, which is absolutely necessary. And it is interesting to consider this information from the Society of Professionals on this subject and much interesting. It comes, for example. up to that many of these OECD suggestions are still in operation within the system and it would be useful to know what suggestions it is. So here are four suggestions, which, in fact, are not many if we look forward to 438 suggestions. Here's four to act immediately. First of all, there is a change in the age-seating of the MAH for restaurants and lodgings. So they are moving the date range to 18 years, but it is not allowed if there is a license. Second, it is a shortening of the ONIV version of the treatment period. Of course, this is a good thing. Third, there is a decline in pay for the license of restaurants and restaurants allowing for the sale of alcohol and fourth, of course, the delinquency of a driving station to be open to the public. As I'm saying, we in the Middle East have been direct advocates of simplifying the rule, and this is being followed that way. Although the step is not large with four suggestions, it certainly does matter. But I feel that all of this is rather late for the government if it's about to end its life span and this terms, and then I'm going to try to show a little color by bringing a bill here by four suggestions. We would, of course, support this in the Middle Ages, but we would have wanted to see that there would be a bigger and more step in the right direction in this regard. These suggestions are for improvement. We're on top of it, and they lighten the unnecessary burden on companies, and I'm sure that it's a pleasure to reduce the cost of operating a restaurant and a place to be in order for them to reflect actual costs and, of course, we hope that it will follow further adjustments. It has to be said that, as it is, there is a wide pot broken in the public currency and incredible what you can pay for all creations. It's just that when it comes to starting a business and running a business and applying for the others and these permissions, it's difficult for people to do it. And I've previously said in this room that the efficiency industry around the construction industry is natural and applying for a permit is incredibly heavy in the fields, and it's difficult for humans to build their own housing, all kinds of deadlines that need to be met, etc. We certainly need to deal with it, and this has been repeatedly pointed out, but it is a challenge on the part of the government to get involved in these activities. It is true to note that the benefits of simple regulations are unambiguous and active competition, and we have natural work to do, even when it comes to foreign investments. There was a discussion about international affairs and the report of the minister of foreign affairs not long ago, and then I pointed to the highest. There's a minister we don't have a lot of luck with when it comes to double-folding contracts. This is of great importance to companies, especially in foreign investments. When foreign companies set out here, the twofold tax agreements are very important. And we are the submarines of other nations in this regard, and far behind the northern countries, for example, when it comes to two tax agreements and Britain. V.E.G. The minister of the State admitted that we have done a bad job in this regard and that we need to correct it and work diligently to increase the number of tax contracts. There's also another review that's very interesting and is from a travel agency. There are some things there that are interesting, e.g. will discuss the activities of the establishments and restaurants, as the review puts it, the most common part of the tourist service in the city's history. In 2019, 10,700 employees worked for some 1,000 companies, which were combined with some 170 billion dollars. and this is about Half of the transport services are involved, except for the flight. According to them, the entirety of the enterprises studied about 200 billion dollars. and the number of tourists in 2019 has been more than 2 million, and now people have been hoping that we will again not see those numbers in such a long time, 2022, 2023. The legislation in force in this respect is produced in 2007. At that time, tourists came to the land of 485,000, so existing legislation is in many ways out - of - date and does not take into account the current company's management environment for tourism. When this law was written, visitors in traditional two - man rooms and hotels were provided lodging. However, more than a few tourists are now staying in another kind of lodging that did not fit when the law was set in 2007. There is rooming in cars, RVs, lodges of so - called hostelas, and, especially, other diversitys, such as homemaking, etc. So there's been a lot of improvement and change in restaurantism at this time, and it naturally calls for a full reexamination of the regulations in this regard. Thus, the travel agency here says that the changes proposed in a forward bill are going too soon to reform existing legislation and it would have been closer to reevaluating the whole legislation and changing to modern values. This is a very interesting point, but you have to say, as I said before, that this is a natural joke of a little step once these sectors have been through that there are over 400 suggestions for improvement and that there are four here to be carried out with this bill. It has to be said that when it comes to rooming and feeding, it is complicated and inexplicable, and this needs to be replaced. We know that restaurants and restaurants are an essential element when it comes to travel services, and therefore it is very important that the issues of these sectores, the license parties, the surveillance and infrastructures, etc., are simplified as much as possible and be heard in the field of travel. This is followed by the bill's report that it is intended to eliminate laws relating to official quality measures. A travel agency, in its review, says that what is meant is unclear, and it is not natural to put out something that is vague, if you don't know exactly what is meant. However, a travel agency believes that this is regulations 3rd. The Regulation to prohibit hosts from identifying hostels with stars or other signals indicating the quality categories except that the formal quality of the third member is approved by the government. A travel agency believes that the law should not be removed, since there are no other rules on how stars actually represent themselves. With such a constellation presenting information that affects buying behavior, especially consumer protection is very important in this relationship, and for some time now, it has been an official star class system under the Vakan quality system of tourism, and this is something I would have thought the committee should have gone better to their work. It also points out that it is necessary to increase the collection of reliable data on hosting and restaurants and that I agree with it. So here's what it says: It is likely that there is nothing better to inform about the development and survival of the transport service in this country than details of how tourists make their way through the country. The systematic collection of such information allows for identifying nations, residence times at each destination, economic events, and more. Many other countries have advanced in the collection of such information in a digital way. We know that the country's beds are thought to be from the Haggis, which provides a natural clue in some way, but it can be done much better in these areas. I think it's perfectly clear. And at the end of the discussion, it says that this important matter would also be reviewed by a review of these laws, and I agree with it. There are a lot of things in this bill that are critical, but this is such a small step in the right direction and could have been done in a much more difficult way by our assessment of the Central Party and by taking on other factors. And I say it again and again that it would have been interesting, and it must be available, to see these suggestions that came out, these 438 suggestions for improving the order. This is a step in which there are four suggestions. I must say, at last, Mr. President, that, yes, we support this bill, it's all in the right direction, but there could have been a much better way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u111	President. I'm here recommending a commission on a bill to correct a change in the law on addiction and drugs. It involves industrial disaster. The bill suggests that agri-gri-gri-gri-gri-gri-gri-environment ministers will set up a Regulation requiring permission to import the seeds of a species of Canabis stiva, including: more detailed requirements and restrictions on import, treatment and possession of seeds covered by the bill are provided. Most of the headlines received by the Committee are welcomed by the bill. It was concluded that the group of paintings belonged to a seafaring and agricultural minister. It was then noted that as a result of this issue, with a change in the Regulation that made the import, handling, and possession of the seed for industrial modes possible, this country's culture had been successful. It is the Department of Health to enable the European Farmers to cultivate industrial quality here. The Commission also discussed products containing CBD, cannaboliol, and the possibility of allowing such production and marketing in Iceland. She received the information from the Ministry that such extensive changes in the bill were being made. At the same time, it was found that a marine economist and agricultural minister intends to appoint a team that will cover CBD oil when the bill has been supplied. The staff will specifically review food laws, chemical and chemical laws and evaluate the need for the changes to be made on the above laws to produce and market CBD oil in this country. The task force will also review the current European Union work and the legislation on new births and applications for CBD oil to fall under them. It is concluded that the work force will submit its results in the form of a report or a bill to the marine road and agricultural administrator, no later than December 1, 2021. The Commission welcomes this job of the Ministry and considers it important to investigate the means to allow the production and marketing of CBD oil here in such a country to be equal between the Icelandic manufacturers and the foreign countries. At the same time, the committee reiterates the importance of the completion of work. According to this, the Committee proposes that the bill will remain unconvinced. Under this committee, the entire welfare committee writes. I wanted to add personally that I think this is an amazing positive, good step. I'm sorry we haven't been able to put away this bill so that, as soon as summer, Icelandic farmers would be allowed to produce and market products containing CBD. It must seem very unfair and stupid that we are allowed to import products containing CBDs and sell them all over but that the Icelandic producers, common farmers and Icelandic people, must not produce similar products and markets at home. There's an obvious flaw, and it needs to be fixed as soon as possible. I'm sorry we couldn't do it right away with that bill. It was tried, and we were told that it was impossible. Pirats and I have a pact proposal for CBD, but it's actually just about the job that's already going on. Pirats and I are glad that the Ministry has started a job to look into and decide how to do this with CBD oil. I hope that work is over as soon as possible. It would be best if there were just a bill instead of a report because we don't really need any more steps. It is enough to take the step now that this group of people will consider how we can change the law as everyone at first, so Icelandic farmers and producers don't have to wait any longer to get their product finished and use that part of the plant to produce CBD products here. If I don't, I'll welcome this case and hope we can get it together as soon as possible. Industrial disaster is an exciting opportunity for Icelandic farmers, for us in innovation, and for Icelandic pioneers to use this plant to produce all kinds of exciting things here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u112	A respectable president. I hereby present an opinion of a change in a proposal for a pregnancy in Iceland to adopt the United Nations Children's Convention from the World Health Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Department of Social Affairs, Þóra Jónsdóttir and Linda Hrönn Þórisdóttir of Childhood and the Árni Múli Jónasson of the National Organization. The Committee received reviews from Children's Health, Children's Office, National Developmental Fund, Percontainment, the Union of Icelandic Company, the Children's Directorate and Iceland's Scaring Coalition. The Parliament's arrangement provides objective and action plan for the production of the United Nations Children's Covenant for the Year 2021 families2024. In the conclusion, the goals are set out in 12 teams. These are: Children's participation, child participation and rights education, child-friendly management, interest evaluation from the rights of children, whole-scale policy in child affairs, children's law change and international commitment to rights, harmonisation of child rights, targeted production of data on children's success and rights in Iceland, analysis of public funds to ensure child rights and success, emphasis on child rights in international cooperation and follow-up and reassessment. A general pleasure was among the sources of the proposal, those who encourage its approval. The childhood article discussed the importance of parental training on child rights and rejoiced that educational material is expected to be implemented for children, guardians, professionals, and children's experiences. The organization encourages the government to emphasize education for parents on the rights of children and create situations where parents can learn about child training during pregnancy and during the first few years of their life. The committee agrees with this view, taking into consideration the importance of parental instruction, working with a positive way of training so that the best possible situation in the lives of children in the home and in their daily lives can be created. The proposal discusses the electronic activities of children and child - rearing consultations. Personal protection is noted in his review that children's personal information is particularly protected by the law of No. 90/2018, about personal protection and processing of personal data, as they may be less aware of the risks, the consequences and their rights in connection with the processing of personal information. The Committee agrees with Peritoneal Protection on the importance of the implementation of any personal information carried out in association with an electronic centre for children and child-friendly consultation with the rules of the law No. 90/2018, including on the basis of permission for the processing, principles and security of personal information. The National Institutes of Development and the Economic Organization of Iceland point to the importance of all the policy-making policies in the United States of the United States taking into account the fact that disabled children have fewer tools than uninvolved and are indisputably more likely to be subject to discrimination in most areas and to violence. Thus, all activities dealing with children in general must be aimed at ensuring all disabled children's rights and opportunities to match all children and protect them from all forms of discrimination and violence. The Organization expresses great satisfaction with the emphasis that Icelandic legislation will be in harmony with the children's covenant and that governments will fulfill further commitments to children's rights. The organization reiterates the importance of taking special care of the interests of disabled children. In addition, both the National Institutes of Development and the National Development Association of Iceland are urging the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, where the rights of disabled children are further justified. The committee emphasizes that the actions and goals proposed by the Congress laws apply to all children, those of the perimeter groups as well as others. So the committee suggests that the synopsis proposal will be accepted with the following adjustment: Number. 9.1 to II. and says: "The charges of the government will be determined by the rights of children. " Hv. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case but signed according to a source in 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191. Árnadóttir Kolbrönnaddóttir, Helga Helgadóttir Velga Helgafóðnsótttir and Halldóra Mogensen sign in advance that they explain in speech, while other members of Parliament who signed are Captain Ingi Kristjánsdóttir Kristjótir, Guðmundur Kristjánsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u113	A respectable president. I would like to celebrate the validation of the third optional book with the 6.2 children's covenant. I've just proposed a council proposal some of the last few council members at the highest level. The Minister of Child Affairs has now agreed to contribute with this bill. I wondered, " Why does that council-sense proposal not get out of a foreign press committee where it is but through another committee? ' During the hearing of a council resolution on the third optional book during the last council, the Ministry objected to the book that I found very interesting. It has been very difficult to get that case through the council. Now it's a case from a minister who's just very good. It is interesting to know how some people get through and not others. I wanted to know by reason of it. A senator as to whether or not the matter has been completed for quite some time, but it has not been resolved when they appear to be acting on other matters from a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u114	A respectable president. I'll just admit that it wasn't specifically discussed with this case. So I don't have the exact answers to what I can do here, so why. A senator like you. I'll just admit it wasn't really discussed, so I don't have the proper answers to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-09-110.u115	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of the Management Board's change proposal for bill fixes on a remote network from an environment and transport committee. The name of the committee lies on the roof. 1624 and No. 506. Here we are, 2nd. ... aboutit. The commission received reviews from 11 sources and brought a number of visitors to discuss the matter. The bill is suggested to adopt new overall laws on the activities of the Post and Communication Institute and the Agency, including the Agency. Gives a new name, Remote Room. The goal of the bill is to improve and simplify communication regulations. The key role of the Agency on the control and implementation of communications remains constant, but key changes and indicators of the bill focus on progress and innovation and how the Agency can follow rapid development and support such development. Along with contributions from the bill, a bill was provided for the legislation on the change of mail services and graffiti that includes the transfer of mail services to the Agency, which is case No. 534 and the review of this issue is also provided by the Environment and Transport Committee. I'm not going to go through the committee opinion from word to word, but I'm just coming in on the chapters of it. First, we will discuss the data supply of a telecommunications firm. Data registration is expected to be in the global communication database. The Commission claims that this database plays an important role in policy development and structure in the media, so it is important, but it aims to consult with communications companies on how they deliver data to the foundation and including which form to deliver the information. However, there was a suggestion that this discussion on how the collection of data matters. Then we will discuss complaints to a remote lab and learn that it is normal for consumers to send complaints to one place, but there are no changes in the bill, since, according to a telecommunication form of a panEuropean order, it is important that the regulations of the bill relate to the rules of the directive being followed. The situation is that consumers can have their own exclusive disagreement with a telecommunications company on the board of products and services, or a telecommunications agency. And that's how it stays. Then I come to the Commission's adjustment proposal. First, the adjustment proposal for the implementation of legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions. By the law of changing the law on the Netostry and other laws, the post-communication agency was appointed to conduct execution under the legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions. This change was made earlier this year. A greater part of the 344th Economic and Business Committee is encouraged by the Environment and Transport Committee to consider new projects of the Agency for a discussion on the current bill. With reference to this, the committee suggests a change in the role of a remote agency in Article 2. The bill will be given to carry out legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business. In agreement, the Commission proposes two changes in the law of neighbourism and other laws, No. 18/2021, so the law reflects the new name of the agency. It also discusses the safety and the safety of the public. Eight. will be discussed in the role of a remote exchange agency when it comes to safety and public safety. It was noted in its review that the Agency has always been called in recent years when there is an emergency that could threaten the security of communications, or when there is a need for sound communication in such conditions. This role of the Agency has not been discussed in the law. Code 8. The bill is a great improvement. Yet, that law is being changed. As experience has shown, the establishment of the Agency is necessary when responding to a medical emergency, e.g. Because of storms or other natural disasters. In order to reflect more closely the role of the Agency and the availability in these matters, the Commission proposes at 2 mg. Section 8. Adds to the new court that a remote exchange agency should contribute to security and resistance to telecommunications and coordinated responses under specific circumstances. It is then suggested that the importance of telecommunication clinic and U.S. Marshal's cooperation, the implementation of equipment practice, and other measures aimed at promoting security and resistance to telecommunications services, be set up in 10 mg. 25. The bill. Of course, it would be wise to note that, of course, cooperation is being made with all the stakeholders involved in the security and the P.R. very important aspects of these regulations, both partners in Article 25. ... andmakeupeighths. We will next discuss the databases of public communications networks. In the 10th. The bill insists that a remote office operates on a digital communication network. There should be a record of the specific data included in the database according to the requirements. 3 mg. is authorized by a telecommunications agency to make practical use of the information they have in their work, including Based on the analysis of state-of-general market failures. It was noted that such analyses may include Places and business connections of individual households may therefore have some personal details. That's 5 mg. It should be noted that the public's limited access to the database should be opened to form a link in different areas divided by locals. Because of this, it is important to add a personal protection plan to the items listed in the provision that can limit access to information. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests a change of 5 mg. 10th par. that put it this way: However, the availability of information should be limited if necessary in the light of Internet security and their authenticity, national security, public health or public safety, confidentiality, legitimate competitiveness, management and business secrets, and personal protection will be added to that sentence. Finally, the decision - making committee is discussed. 20th degree. it is decreed that the decisions made by the Radiocomputer are admissible to a special committee, the Communications Committee. The same is true of government decisions as per mail laws. So the committee is, as it has so far, on both mail and communications. The committee is acting in accordance with the current Post and Communication Act by the Committee on Communication and Mail and is independent and independent of its activities. With the evidence that the committee will continue to take sides in the field of mail, the Commission feels that the committee's name reflects it and will be the ruling committee of communications and mail instead of calling only the Communications Declaration Committee, as originally suggested in the bill. Then the committee suggests some other technological changes that are not meant to have material influence. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes now outlined. Under the heading "Lineik Anna Sævarsdóttir " and Bergþór Ólason, president of the Committee. Plus, why? Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Árnason Aknasson, who are signed by a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Standards for the Synod's fixed committees, where he was absent from the case. Then Karl Gauti Hjaltason, like Bergþór Ólason, writes in advance. They intend to make that clear in the public address. Then I have made this committee an article, and I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation with the process and suggest that it be accepted.
