ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u1	There have been letters received from the Minister of Justice requesting every time to provide written answers to questions on the subject. 1303, for the citizenship, for Bergþór the son of Ólason, and for the threshing floor. 1253, about mobbing in the police, from Birgir Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child - care ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u3	Mr. President. In recent years the Ministry of finance has been streaming from prime news and regulations that make business more difficult and difficult to deal with the system. You can't have a small company in Iceland these days unless you have experts working on it. It's not time in the highest estimate. Ministers to correct this trend and reverse it? I'm going to give you a real example of a small company in the country, just a little sample of new supplies that lie on that company, pieces of the check list, not the requirements to complete the checklist. It says by permission of a president in a government message: ▪ What was the total number of your customers during 2020? Do your customers or their business dealings associate with others? Or do you feel that they are linked to the following: A person with a common use of cash, such as restaurants, bars, travel services, hotels and the like, charity, or other nonprofit organisations and cross-border operatings, sexual industry or human sales, a party that has to do with organized crime activity? The risk assessment for money has been made in accordance with Article 5. track No. 140/2018, the terrorist finance operation? Is there a reliable search for customers at the start of a business? After a business relationship has been established, is the authenticity study a regular way to review it? Have workers been trained to take on the use of money and to finance terrorism? Are you aware of your duties according to law No. 64/209, on the freezing of funds and registration of parties on the list of forced actions in connection with terrorist funding and the spreading of mass destruction weapons? If you are aware of your research and reporting duties in accordance with law No. 140/2018? That's just how it goes, Mr. President. These are new shapes, just a small fraction of them, at a small company in Iceland and the same is likely to apply to similar small companies all over the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u4	A respectable president. The above scenario is rather dwindling because this is what we're talking about, in recent years, we've had to realize that if we don't deal with it, and we don't do it in a handsome way according to international commitment, it's going to blow us up and reduce the opportunities of Icelandic employment, especially in international terms. However, it is always a question of how far the system should go in staging a company to provide information. Let me give you an example of a case in which the government has been taking steps to make life very easier for people who are involved. Of course, digital Iceland is my main concern in dealing with situations where we reduce the need to be in line to interact with the government's institutions, to move into the digital age, to use digital technology to communicate, to take state databases and make them talk behind the scenes, not to run with papers from one institution to the other, and then to the third and fourth to stamp them, which is the requirement of the system to get people who are involved. Of course, the reduction in insurance costs is a focus that we've had in recent years, which will bring relief to an enterprise, as well as a lower tax rate in general. There are matters that matter, but taking the money bullshit on a program that makes business difficult, I feel, as I say, not an ill description of what we're about to do. But I agree with what. A senator that we need to be aware of the need to be aware of the fact that different agencies, different officials, and the system all have ideas, each in their own corner, which then gathers in the stream of ideas to look better and be heard about the other. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly the point. But I may not find the money bullshit an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u5	Mr. President. As I mentioned, this is just one small example, but it's not possible to cover a lot in two minutes, but it's the highest case. The Minister of Justice mentioned as one of the government's affairs to deal with organized crime. But does this help? I don't think those in such a situation are going to mean to some forms that they're doing man-sale or having something to do with organized violations. But the others are trying to compete, sometimes in competition with those who are cheating on the system. And of the highest. The minister mentioned Digital Iceland, however, there are two aspects of this matter, of course, that we should try to make the most of our technology. The digital system also enables the government, the system, to put new people and new ones on the line because it is so easy to send out the others and this list that you have to do so very hard to fulfill. Since most companies are not limited to electronic accounting, they have to print all their stuff so that, if it does not work, digital Iceland can make it easier for the government to place new and complex beats on companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u6	A respectable president. I'm not going to argue with it. A senator who wants to stress not placing unnecessary demands on companies and people. I just agree with his point, and I shall first admit that I feel like we - the Council of the Council - have not been good at curbing this trend, the self - working new demands we have been facing. When we what? A senator sat together for the government, and we made a rule, saying that for every new charge that would come out, another one would have to go out. But carrying out that course is often difficult. It's a big deal to coordinate the whole board and then to the council in a conversation with the Council through the primes and regulations so that someone can say, "Aha, here are more new songs than the lifted ones, so we can have some sort of accounting, some sort of measurement, some sort of showdown, some sort of account-fixing action on people and companies. That would be very good if we were to develop it, put money, and finance it, perhaps.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u7	Mr. President. We now see out of difficult times, and you can sense an increased optimism, and after an international shock, one State after another is about to turn over, and we are also getting ready for a fight and an explosion. I think we're at the highest. A minister must agree that people and businesses must be in the best shape when they go on the starting line. But those who lost their jobs and suffered a major loss of income because of the situation need to run. The proportion of people working here has never been as low as in years, and unemployment is very costly to the homes and to the community. It reminds me that each percentage of the money costs 6 billion bucks. every year. How important it is, therefore, that we remove the unemployment problem quickly but also that those with the weightiest load get started quickly! There we feel that in the Union we lack a lot of things, and that's why we made additional proposals to support the government's actions from the last week, six new resources that support jobseekers and make it easier for companies to hire people for work. The crowns we now defend will quickly return, several times, including in improved management. One action we proposed is a tax rate for people who return to work after unemployment, which means that a person will receive a double personal discount for as many months as the person was unemployed. The procedure is temporary and remains in contact with other measures, including on the prolongation of recruitment and other employment proposals. That's why I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether he feels that it is possible to reach an agreement on these additional measures to ensure that all will be in the best form when leaving the grid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u8	A respectable president. I welcome a new tone that I pretend to sense from the United States, which shortly spoke of the fact that we were missing so much and that we were on the wrong track. But now it's more likely that we're on the right track, we just need a little more. Now I haven't studied all the suggestions of the United States, but I hear what they say about the personal discount. This suggests that, among other things, there is a need to "keep quiet. " that the support we have had in part-time reforms and now in recruitment levels is inadequate, that the motivation is not sufficient and the support to our homes is insufficient. I don't know exactly what they're referring to, except perhaps it's unfortunate that home has gone to a busy store in previous years during the difficult times. But then I would point out that we have managed, through measures that have been in constant development, and have changed over time, to stand with the homes, so that last year provision increased in one of the most economics we have experienced. It has been successful in providing shelter for the homes if we look at them from the understructor. We don't see the waves that you might have been able to cope with this massive unemployment. But I share my goals. I share my goals with him. A senator comes up here, who is ensuring a hearing, standing with those who have lost their jobs, focusing all on creating as many jobs as possible and bringing people back to work. That's a very important priority, which I agree with. A senator about. But I have not been convinced that it is wise to do exactly the way discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u9	Mr. President. It's a kind of long story from the highest level of history. Minister. Of course, he knows that we, like other government groups, have been fighting for the whole epidemic, although we have certainly thought that sometimes things were missing. It's the highest word here. Ministers for the need for people to take up collections. Let us not entirely conclude that some may even have had to borrow, sell their car, reduce their size, or do other things. The fact that there are moderate incomes and, on average, people have nothing to do with the current situation. There are 20,000 people without a job, and somehow we need to balance their positions, so it won't take them and their families and children years to get back on track. I'm waiting for the highest. Therefore, please consider these suggestions because they are merely the anointing of the machine introduced by the Minister last week in Harpa.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u10	A respectable president. I'll really study the suggestion, and I'm glad that we can deepen our discussion by discussing it in a critical way, asking for nothing other than an open, honest conversation, and is quite open to upbuilding criticism of what we have suggested. But I've noticed that we've had a lot of success right now, and we don't see the difficult situation of the homes you were worried about. It wasn't default. I think the Navy played a very important role in this early intervention, making room for the financial system to be supported by households and businesses and the government's actions, as well as by our immediate entry into this film through the delay of paydays and other such measures. Thus, the secretor, the government, the General Assembly, and the financial system have been on the same side as necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u11	A respectable president. On February 25th. said the highest. The President's permission of the President's Bjarni Benediktsson for Economics and Economics: I believe there is every reason for us to be very proud of the enormous social security network in Iceland where we put out more than 10% of all the government funds to stand with people who don't have enough between their hands. It is an immense system that has been developing in the right direction. The increase as a dog. In recent years, a senator has lost tens of billions of dollars, approximately tens of thousands of dollars. 30 billion, just in the pension system - 30 billion annual increases from 2015 to 2015. So, yes, I think we should be proud of it. [...] Where should the money come from? Right now we're running a government fund with over 300 billion angles. Hv. A senator speaks of it as some measure of scandal that we do not add tens of billions more to human reform. - They've been rising almost half the last year. A respectable president. I recently received an answer to my inquiry to the highest degree. Social and child-friendly minister on damage to the social security system which shows that the impairments have increased by almost 5 billion each year. It was the highest. In this case, did a financial minister know that he was talking about nearly the same amount in both cases? When I'm at the highest. The minister of finance claims to be proud of the 30 billion he put in his system, so proud of having reached nearly the same amount with more impairments? Why is he more proud, the amount he put in the social security system, or an increase in impairments where he obtained nearly the same amount out of the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u12	A respectable president. Of course, this statement doesn't make any sense. First, what impairment is the driving force? A senator suggesting that I have come with you before the council? I haven't made any suggestions like that. That's what I'm talking about. The senator did not realize that with unchanged impairment rules, it happens in people who have a higher and higher income, higher and higher living - primarily in the case of pensioners who are involved in social security at the expense of pension money - and when new people enter a pension age each year with better and better pensions, it affects the decline? The damages grow in some proportion to better pensions. It's all drawn into the system, and that doesn't mean we've been increasing the decline. We have the same rules, but these are the effects when more and more people come with better rights into the pension age. I'm just wondering, "Do you want to? A senator that we make the expenses of social security grow with better pensions? As people have more pension rights, the higher the benefits? I thought it was the other way around. I thought it was this way that we were primarily going to use the social security system to support those who have less and as we put more out of common funds to people who have very good pensions, the less money will be used for those with little pensions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. It seems to be a complete coincidence that it is somehow the same amount of money that is added to the system and that it increases in the amount of money. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about that answer from the highest. Minister is, for example. ... witha dollartoacourage. They are exactly the same number today as the government's beginning. Yet, the decline to 65 bucks should have been reduced. Older citizens were promised for their last election of the highest. Secretary of the budget that damage to the social security system would be significantly reduced. Is increasing the decline in the social security system by increasing it by 20, 30 billion, 5 billion a year? Is it a significant reduction? I just have to ask the highest. Minister: How on earth did he manage to reduce the degree of impairment at the same time that they have increased by 5 billion in each year as minister of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u14	A respectable president. I don't know what it is. A senator means that there is an improvement in the proportion of the improvements being made, i.e. The entire pay is growing. Now it's like we're talking about real bucks that go from the state funds through the social security system to people taking into account the degree of impairment. After all the losses, the total pay is growing. So that's what it's all about. A senator here suggests that this was 5 billion to 5 billion that meet at zero, just doesn't work, unfortunately. That's what I'm talking about. A senator suggesting that a dollar to a dollar is unchanged, or what? I can't figure it out. This is actually a matter of another minister. I like it. A senator with these emphasis was here to speak for those who have it best in their pensions because he cries out every cent that is restricted so that we can do better with those who have been remembered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u15	President. Iceland's Government, with the Ministry of Justice and the National Institute of Foreign Affairs, continues to send candidates for international protection to Greece, despite the fact that the government should be fully aware that the restitution system in Greece has long since collapsed. The Red Cross said two weeks ago, with the permission of a president: ▪ Given the grounds, the Red Cross in Iceland makes its position that the proposed return of refugees to Greece is not prerequisite under the present circumstances. All of this has been done repeatedly by the Red Cross at the Foreign Institute, the Department of Foreign Affairs, and the Minister of Justice, as well as by public discussion. The head of refugee aid in Europe at UNICEF has also said, on permission of a president: It is also time for Europe to display a solidarity of Greece and Turkey. These nations have received very large groups of children and families. But no one government will cover this project in unshort - lived. Yesterday, reports showed that ten candidates are to be referred to for international protection. They were stripped of provisions and obtained half an hour to collect their belongings and leave the house. They were placed on the streets in Iceland, at the invitation of the Icelandic government, ten government officials believe is best kept under difficult and inhuman conditions in Greece. To quote these individuals by permission of the president: We'd rather die on the street in Iceland than go back to Greece. The procedure is in harmony with laws and regulations, and it also says that this is not without condemnation. No, it is not without condemnation that the Icelandic government is guilty of sending people into a delicate position repeatedly to Greece because they have decided to use some interpretation of the term "secure state's advantage. " Is it not time for government officials to abandon their inhuman resurgence? Is it not time to listen to a humanitarian organization and stop reimbursement to Greece? How does a minister justify sending ten people to the street? How can this stand, and how can it be viewed as humane?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u16	A respectable president. The Icelandic government has not sent anyone to the refuge system in Greece on the basis of the Order of Dublin since 2010, and only individuals who have been granted international protection in Greece have been sent to each case examined on an individual basis. Since February of last year, no one has been transferred to Greece, but no group is waiting for transport there, all for single men who are protected in Greece, and some individuals have received a revelation and have voluntarily returned to Greece. We live in a state of justice, and this means that all of us must respect the code of law adopted by the General Assembly, and we members of the Parliament, together on the basis of democratic views, as well as for the institutions of the state and all the individuals in the country. The conduct of this case is in effect that we restore individuals who have been protected in Greece, not those who are in the security system there, as is often confusion. They have refused, as noted, to cooperate with the local authorities on the basis of the regulations and laws that rest on the code set by the General Assembly. You're right next door. A senator, who is ill - equipped in Greece, makes it difficult for individuals to succeed, but at the same time, there are 26 million refugees in many parts of the world, and there are no countries that have permanently ceased to return to Greece. I believe that this escape system is an emergency system and is intended for people who fear their lives and freedom and who are not thinking of those who have already received international protection in another state and who are more likely to discuss whether we do not want to examine additional employment permits for people outside of Europe who want to come here and improve their quality of life and work in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u17	President. The fact that they have international protection in Greece is of little consequence. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice must agree with me on that. When I talk about the explosion of the system in Greece, it's because Greece assumes its geographic position to the vast number of refugees, as well as those who have received international protection in that country. I don't think it matters anything that the governments of the world haven't stopped reimbursement to Greece because it's obviously the most important thing to them governments. That's obvious. I don't see anything that could keep Iceland from being at the front of the category in terms of humanitarian treatment of people and simply stop sending people into a sensitive position in Greece. Greece is not a secure state, although the government maintains it. The Red Cross and UNICEF have published that it is not safe to send people back to Greece, regardless of their status within the security system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u18	A respectable president. When it comes to making the system function effectively, we are only in the nations. We received more than our neighboring countries last year, but there are also more applications here than there are in countries around us. We have also reached the time of the trial, which has been a problem in recent years, since people have waited far too long for their decision to make. There is no problem now in the Foreign Institute of Iceland over 110 days of age. But there is an enormous number of people in the world in distress, and those who have been protected in another European country that we cooperate with with this group are simply not in the same distress, are in less distress than 90% of those who are on the run. [[The president calls.]] If we are going to do better for this vulnerable group, we are also required to focus on those in the greatest distress and find it difficult to get here ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u19	Mr. President. I still want to talk to the highest. Secretary of finance on important issues of economic status and outlook as the end of Congress and the terms of the term. Is it true that inflation is far beyond the cost of the Federal Bank? Is it true that in Iceland, in recent years, inflation has increased more than in our main business countries? Is it true that some unusually young people have recently infiltrated the real estate market? Is it true that real estate prices rose quickly recently? Is it true that interest rates are rising and will rise in the years to come? Is it true that interest rates will significantly affect the weight of real estate buyers during the next few years? Is it true that the government's financial programme will assume at least 50 billion supplementary measures in the coming years include either tax increases or cuts? Is it true that unemployment is more here than it has been for years? Is it true that since our major business countries, unemployment has increased proportionately in this country? Is it true that a professional party is smaller than we've seen? Mr. President. These are some simple questions dealing with a very serious economic situation characteristic of Iceland if you are looking for a competitive country. I expect the highest. Secretary of finance responds in a simple and clear way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u20	A respectable president. This is where it goes. A senator over several things that I now suspect he has good information about in the media and in relevant institutions that deal with inflation and other such. But what I would like to say about inflation is that, of course, it is disappointing to see its growth and need for growth that has now taken place in the Federal penitentiary. But the comparison of land where inflation is not and growth is even negative, e.g. ... forinstructors,it'snotgood. It's not the dream situation we're after. It's not our inflation goal. That's 2.5%. In countries where inflation is no longer an inflation target, there is no inflation. The lack of interest in loans is not a health sign that there is no room for economic growth, nor is there any efficiency in the economy. In this respect, in many ways we are in a better place than other nations. If we look at the fact that people have managed to maintain their potential in 2020 despite everything, then the answer is yes; if there is a right to increase wages in Iceland, not just in recent years, but in many years back, but in the euro, for example, the answer is yes, too, yes. It is true that the prerogatives of the households have never been higher in history than at the beginning of this year. However, I am concerned about inflation, and it is the main role of the National Bank to use machines to receive it. In the years to come, I call attention to what the Council of Nations says, that government funds will try to reduce their support efforts to restore their financial balance, that is one of the only essential elements for our return to a healthy balance in public finances. And I suppose it's one of the reasons why they're going to keep growing low, as they've been since they've been missing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. He answered yes to all my questions. Then he began to ask himself questions that are irrelevant to me, as I was asking simple questions that he has answered. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Secretary of finance what message he would like to give to those who have invested all their belongings to secure their homes, families with rising prices and those who are employed or who are now out of work or who have become withdrawn from a job market. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Secretary of finance whether he is proud of having had to answer yes to all my questions and whether he is pleased with the situation. I'd like to finally ask the highest. A minister of finance whether he would never be affected by the financial system because he was forced to answer all the questions I asked him yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u22	A respectable president. I want to pray. A senator about listening when I am dealing with questions and not running immediately to express answers that I may not have responded. But I'm just going to bring it up here, because the first shopkeepers are mentioned: Is it not a good thing, or what, that we've never seen more of the first apartment buyers than the last semester? I think it's a good thing. Great success in helping people, whose economic stability, to get a roof over their heads. Never more young people will be able to make their own dwellings. Are we to worry about inflation? Yes, we should be concerned about this, and we immediately see the results of the Federal Bank on Growth in order to contain the inflation, and we need to fall on the same rhythm. The message we have for real estate owners today is: We're going to do everything we can to continue our economic stability and our obligation to maximise the potential situation in any situation as it is at any time, whether in a good country or in a pandemic. [[The president calls.]] We can't promise anything and pretend we can do magic, but we can promise this, to maximise our chances and opportunities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u23	Mr. President. I explain to the Committee of Members, Section 2 of the General and Education Committee on a bill to correct a change to the press law, No. 38/2011. I have to start by protesting against the practices we've been dealing with this committee. The case was taken into the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. at the request of the above, and it soon became evident at a committee that it was halberrous piety because, on the part of the committee, there was no interest in it, taking the matter for material treatment, such as the mind of the individual and others, i.e. ... toconcerntheway of a case that occurred last night. The men of the assembly of Brazer the son of Níelsson, and Óli the son of Kárason, the son of Kamri. There was nothing to do, Mr. President, to be anything to review this and what to do with it. Our central class case of a part of a radio charge being made with the premise that consumers can choose where they will follow, that they can select the media to which the radio pays them, in the same way that they are paid today. According to the Commission opinion, there are two principals in this case that are missing into the bill that has been discussed recently and for the treatment of an embarrassingly long term committee. First of all, it is the long shadow that RUSH throws on this market and second, the prominence of foreign distribution hosts have by vacuuming out advertising money and not paying any fees or salary in Iceland. These two skulls are missing into the bill. I can't believe this isn't taken into account when the bill was put together. As mentioned earlier, this matter is more embarrassing to the government. Much of the government's members have no interest in the case, and some of them have offered excellent inspired talks on how much they object to the bill. But then it happens, as it says, that even though these members of the Independence Party have found their way home to the booth, they have found their way to the green button, despite their emotional speeches that this case is bad, what it is. That is why, Mr. President, it is also a problem that the basics on key issues such as this should be raised in as much controversy between the ruling parties as they do. It's not quite surprising, as the government is a combination. It is naturally divided because the wide range of appeals that it was supposed to achieve has especially appeared to the public and members of the council in trouble because they have not been able to get along with the simplest issues and often look for the easy way out, which is, in general, the imperfectst way to continue working together but, unfortunately, have nothing to do. It has been pointed out in the discussion, Mr. President, to the goal of the bill, i.e. to strengthen the free and independent media, not being reached by the above means, for example. adapting the tax environment to the same level as this one was previously killed. Of course, it should have been the first thing that would appear here because of the market media position, dealing with the public taxes. Evil was not done, and people did not have the ability or the courage to do so, and therefore they seek this way, which is considered the simplest, but it is the state of the media throughout the United States. Since the entire media in Iceland is not being produced to make the media free and independent. A media that is greatly fortified by the state is not likely to criticize the government of any time during the state support period, a government support that is often under a high part of the mass cost of the medium. It has also been criticized that the intensity of this issue has especially been consulted by the most powerful mediums, not their smaller ones, e.g. not those with operating facilities in the more scattered areas of the country. In turn, societies such as Iceland's Journalist Society have agreed that it is right to strengthen especially those with large workers beyond those few, who are naturally thinking about their professional security, which is worth a lot of money and nothing about checking things. But I say again, this method is not likely to make the media of the state's pen independent and free, unless it is less likely. It has also been observed in our discussion that no article has developed as rapidly and as much as the distribution of information. In the past and in the past, during the days of a few newspapers, newspapers like the People's Visit were closed at three days before the magazine came out, and nothing happened in the world after three o'clock in the Nation School, which was to be held in the morning. Moggg had it a little different. That magazine was open until midnight so that the latest news would light the following morning. But this was at the time, this attitude; socialism was natural no matter how old it was if they fell to what was supposed to be presented. Mr. President. At that time, these old party sheets were a sign that you could, in some way, walk in the local language, you had no doubt about it. They put news in the suit that heard their view of life and had to read these media with them glasses. Most of this time has passed, but it is exhaling because we have large media that are less independent and less objective. The worst part, Mr. President, is that in the leading part of a government agency, now a participant, with complete special standing on this market; a company with undisputed access to a commercial market, may not be able to enter the government's financial resources, but not be hindered. In this regard, I would like to point out that only with the last budget, there were probably two suggestions to improve the financial interests of the Kingdom News. I don't recall from this discussion, Mr. President, that any other legal body has increased in this twice. Not the health system, not a free partner -- no, but there was a cry from the Top Search, and it was answered immediately, but it did not provide enough that this same company now seems to be run by 200 billion. K. Do it now. I've mentioned it before, and I'd like to do it once again, Mr. President, that, oh, public societies, are administrative bastards. As soon as the ohf-garden becomes, things seem to have a song to change to worse, and we have many examples of that. The most recent example, and what has been the most important thing on the table of this council, is the mail. The hearts of that company do not seem quite finished, unfortunately, and went badly because of evolution and because it was put under an ohf. I've said that before, and I want to renew it once again that in itself the State Radio should restore the budget as it was, turn it back into a real state agency instead of government-like bastards that it is today. The scope of the operation consists of three roles, the main roles, i.e. in the role of security, culture, and the role of providing information objectively. This main project of the Kingdom broadcast, VOLV Ohf, is not being met. For example, recently, when a crack at Smokenes, about 20 miles [20 km] from nearby settlements, it was the media Viking news that became first with news of this event, and it likely took two hours before the program of Our Kingdom News, RUST Ohf., was ordered to deliver news of the event. During the two hours that ensued, nearby inhabitants in the ◯ affected area of this volcanic eruption were no closer to what they heard. This is the most recent example of VOLV Ohf. But fortunately there was no harm this time. In terms of culture, unfortunately, the treatment of the Icelandic language is in part in the parts of the VOLV Ohf. not in a way that you could expect or demand from a Kingdom publisher whose role is prideful and most remarkable to protect your tongue. It's not happening either, Mr. President, in a way expected by such an institution or such a company. This company is not mentioned in the bill we are considering. That is why the members of the committee's list of smaller objects refer to the large shadow of the VOLV Ohf. The media market, its superior position on that market, and the fact that in the media bill, there is no comment on bringing things to the reality and the modern world. There's something very reprehensible, Mr. President. A few years ago, the highest command was made. The Secret Service of Education and Culture or the Committee of Three Parliaments exactly to review the RU's role, how it should change, e.g. on the subject of advertising, etc. This group was to be produced on March 31st. Since then, over 45 days have passed, and it is only a matter of time that we are now finishing this media bill without making the main results of the service group public. I expect an interim report of this committee or group of members to be published to members of the General and Education Committee, but I believe it is too late. It is too late for humans to take a stand on this matter as well-lit as they might be because it is missing. She is missing from this very thing: What then? The bill we're talking about here, Mr. President, is such a flash patch. It is not the first time that this government brings special patches in various matters because of its lack of solidarity and lack of vision. This government has always lacked vision in the smallest case. This even appeared. in the issues that have been followed by the epidemic that have been published and that have been taken up here every five to six weeks instead of having a proper view of the future. This is not postambourg, it was pointed out when the epidemic began over a year ago. But as I say, this government is desperate for vision. Just a year ago, the person here wrote six articles of a Web site on what Icelanders and I had at the time was supposed to be working on to prepare us for the end of the Covid epidemic. Is it not bad to say that the government has not done anything to shape some kind of vision of what to do when the pandemic is over? But it was an exit now, Mr. President. It is not surprising, therefore, that in this matter of discussion, i.e. There is no future view of the media. It's supposed to pitch up until 20 months, which means that the media will again be knocking on the door of the financierate government early in the next year. They will without fail ask, and they will all ask, What then? Then the government will have been replaced by elections. I hope then they have been elected to power groups that not only come together to favor several chairs but also to have a real view of the main elements that need solutions for the whole Icelanders. Possibly, Mr. President, we'll have that serious conference, real-time conference media, real-time decisions on what to do to ensure a wide variety of fleas of free and independent media. In the opening words of the committee opinion, it says, with permission of the president: ▪ One of my smaller things is supported by the growth and maintenance of free and independent media and supports all real efforts in that direction. Sources of Education and Culture for a change in media law, No. 38/2011, (a support of private media) does not reach that goal. In fact, you're starting the wrong end... That's exactly what I've been trying to prove in my case right here and now, that it's starting backwards in this case. Instead of starting off with simplifying the international tax environment and ensuring their position with foreign hosts, which do not pay any real estate here, the state of the media all over Iceland. It is not surprising, Mr. President, that many of the independence officials here have shown themselves in a pont once in a while have been uncomfortable with this matter. It is not unforgiving because, of course, it is a bad example that when it comes to business problems here and where it is recommended that the state of the problem should be replaced by a solution to those who have the problem can work out their own situation, on their own terms, with equal authority, by equal control of the media in Iceland that is not today, unfortunately. It's that correction that's so necessary, and I assume it's even that it's necessary. That's why they're fine. The independent council I quoted earlier, two, yesterday gave a bill to drag RUS out of a commercial market. There's one way. Another way is by which middle - class members have pointed out, which is simple, efficient, that consumers will be able to strengthen them by means of a subscription, a letter of forced labor, to which their minds stand; the hour, Status 2 or what it is called, that they themselves are employed. I've previously described that the subscription to the TUV, the forced subscription, never fails until the bottom of the chest, unfortunately. Whether they like it or not, we are sentenced to be there partners, members, subscribers, whether we like it or not. I'm going to reiterate, Mr. President, that when changes are made, because changes have to be made, the media environment in Iceland will have to attack the largest elephant in the living room. He must be attacked in some way. I've said before and still say, "Why in the state power of running a television station when there's a company all the stuff you can get from here? " True, there is now one piece of speech going through the council, which is about the duty of the media to supply 30% of their material at any given time. Europeans, if I recall correctly, about 8% of the world's total television programs and now the men of Brussels, who have already told us not to eat Cocoa Puffs and Cheerios, are planning the television program for us as well, and under this we are going to go. Such measures, no different from what we're working here, no one's required to enter any silo, whether they like it or not. I'll say it again, Mr. President, because I like the RuV Ohf. And I will do it great in the realms where the duties of the company are toward the nation, namely... in the cultural background, which, unfortunately, is not being fulfilled and in the security role, which I mentioned earlier is not working either. I think if TV was like that. IN THE United States alone, the funds spent there could be used to produce Icelandic materials so that those who are fertile and creative could enter that fund and receive a variety of interesting material. It's, like, a... One of the things you can think of, Mr. President. I also put a question mark on the state's running a news agency. I am now so old that I remember the Novostí and Tass, a government news agency at one time. I can't see that in these days we need such things, especially when the present situation does not guarantee objectiveness, etc. It is of great interest that now, in response to a query from the why. paritaprevir Sæland Gourand, it was discovered that there is sky and sea between the access of various political organizations to the microphones at any given time. It's the sky and the sea, Mr. President. There's no objective there, not any. It's not quite clear, at least not the ones listed here, on what basis people are drawn to the microphones, to the state so - called broadcasters, who are supposed to broadcast all views and communicate them. However, according to this question, why? The senator is less likely to do so today. That's why, Mr. President, as I said at the beginning of my case, here is the beginning of the wrong end. We should be talking about a future bill that has a vision, which shows how the public media market in Iceland should look to the future, but not to be putting a conventional patch on a wound that will not heal during the 18 months that these temporary arrangements will take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u24	A respectable president. I thank you for this speech that I didn't completely agree with in everything. I suppose, though, that I do and do. A senator is thus incontrovertible with regard to the ohf-refuge process. I don't understand that arrangement, and I don't know what it's adding to the state radio operation. Actually, we're discussing support with the private media, but we're discussing why. The senator was mostly turned, if not all about the State Radio, and I don't share his vision of it. I trust, as most of the rest of the country, as numbers have shown, to broadcast the News Office of the Kingdom radio, and I don't think that there is reason to believe that other viewpoints are going to do the job of making news and telling news, and that there is not much more to say. I just wanted to come up here because I just want to set things straight with the nationality closing at three o'clock. When I was a kid, I worked with school as a test reader at night, and there was a regular journalist on duty, on night shift. The newspaper and journalists took turns taking these shifts, and they were certainly busy calling the cops and calling them here and there if there was a need to fill in some space. I just wanted to share this correction with you. A senator, hoping he won't take it from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording the thick for his national will. It wasn't my intention to offend the fine institution. On the other hand, I had this information from a well - known media player, and it may well be because there is a greater nationality than the best - age senator, who was once before. A senator came to his senses and years of age, which the National Society closed at three o'clock the day before the next morning's news. But just because of what. A senator said that he was one of the great majority of the people who trusted RUV perfectly, I wanted to reevaluate what I said before about the middle party's proposal that people can take a part of the radio fee and prescribe it to the media that is best they like. That in itself would be the confirmation of what people think of VOLV Ohf. and what confidence do people have in that media if they could check a portion of the radio bill on the media that best they like. If general pleasure prevails with RUSV, it would be out of the question. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator said in his excellent objection that I've been talking about RUS in my speech because of what I said earlier that RUS is not mentioned in the bill of Free Media. If it's not the great company that's affecting free media, just by its superior position, I don't know what and it's really different that you haven't taken this VR into the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u26	A respectable president. In fact, I believe the U.S. National Radio is one of the free media, i.e. that a mass medium owned by the public is thus free from the abnormal interference of owners, that it is absolutely certain, without me saying that this is a daily bread for the private media. I'm prepared to think about this idea of the Middle Party, that people can arrange a portion of this price to the media by choice, I think it's an interesting idea. But if we've taken the Kingdom News out of a commercial market and it doesn't make money on advertising anymore, I think we've got to finance it somehow. I know why. A senator, in spite of everything, wants a powerful government radio - I know that he sees its duties a little different from me - but how are we going to finance the state radio? If this is no longer a bite to the private media at a commercial market, which some see to be available for private media practice, if the rIV is taken from a commercial market that I doubt - if that income is no longer available at the U.S.R., and if we also place ourselves under the funding of the U.S.U.R. by reducing the radio charge it receives - how will it be funded? Or maybe we should just lay down RUSB because of it, like a what. A senator said that there's just a remnant of the past, there's just something Soviet, like Tass or something like that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u27	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for this good answer. That's exactly what was said in his speech, and I had actually pointed it out in my speech, that I am a friend of RUS. I want RUV to have the opportunity to perform the key roles we've been discussing here, e.g. The security and cultural function. Hv. One senator says: "What should we do if a commercial market is taken away, how will we run the company? It is this, Mr. President, especially recently, when we have been dealing with the Covid virus and its consequences, that many companies, both public and private, have experienced it and have adapted their business to reality. That's what needs to be done with the company's VOLV Ohf, that it needs to adapt to the reality that exists at any given time. I used to say this in a speech sometime earlier in the winter that, apart from the technological advances, RUS was still in itself as it was 1930, i.e. to the institution of the club. The only thing that has changed is technology, it's TV, and then there's color TV, etc. and there's computer connections and all that. But the structure and the calendar -- actually, I don't like using that word, Mr. President, because we just speak Icelandic here - and the founder may basically be just like he was in 1930. It needs to change, Mr. President, and that's why we need to make a case, not this traditional patch that is here, this pop patch that takes the medium further into the future, so we can show that we have a real view of those things. [[The president calls.]] That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u28	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I wanted to come into her only, though, because I've been watching her, especially 2nd. We know that the economic foundation for the public media, and therefore classical reporting, is focused on the discussion, and worldwide is looking for ways to finance good media and information and communication, which are primarily taking into account the public interest - to do so, not to be given to special interest or market laws. Then, it is the technological revolution that has affected this sector, with a significant change in the use of the media. There is a bitter competition, e.g. when it comes to advertising, especially abroad, and the market market in all areas of the media, the basis for this traditional commercialism has been greatly removed, we know, and made it more dependent and more sensitive to market and special interests. It's only once like that. This occurs at the same time as the nature of the media changes, the influence of community media changes the range and the news evaluations of conventional media, which are increasingly taking into account the issues and distribution amongst people. It's the community media that plays the lead, as we know it. In general, funds for the support of the media in the public sector are made in two ways. On the one hand, it is a public budget that puts it either in the form of a disposal fee or a nose tax or a radio taxpayer's fee, which we know well here. However, it is self-rich, which will be purchased at a commercial market by means of an option or through a market sale on any commercial manufacturing products of the enterprise. In most places, however, the way of the reconstituted way of financing is quite different. Thus, many of the world's largest public services centers are being driven by this mixing process. The report on the bill makes a special point of the North countries, and it presents a number of facts. Here is a chapter on a direct state support of private media in the North countries. In other parts of the North countries, the general policy is where to keep public public radio stations outside of a commercial competition at the same time as they compete with private drivers and listeners. That's the way it is, for example. Norwegian national radio almost entirely without advertising and other stations compete with the state market rather than in the advertising market. If you look specifically at Norway, you will see a dark picture of the situation in the Norwegian media market and if you consider what was there for the discussion, it will tell you that some business models cannot guarantee sufficient income. A lower income and a large area of cutbacks in news offices and editors prevent managers from having the resources needed to provide the public a truly diverse media material. The Commission on this matter in Norway believes that there is a great danger that the journalism needed for public discussion can simply disappear before a sustainable operation model for the media has been found. Thus, Norway has a rich understanding of the democratic role of the media, and large amounts of money from a common fund have been working for years to strengthen the diversity and diversity of the Norwegian media. It is noted that there are no other factors as the economic foundations of the media do not change for the better and that it is necessary to continue in a handsome way on that path. Thus, Norwegians want to spend quite a bit of money so that democratic debates can thrive. We Icelanders have often compared ourselves with the Norwegians and other northern countries, and it is interesting to see this comparison, and particularly interesting to compare Icelandic and Norwegian discussions, each person is prepared to be responsible for the diversity and diversity of the media. Mr. President. On page 18. 2 in the bill is about applications, i.e. when the media is applying for the intended management support. It says, for example, by permission of the President: To verify the supporting cost of operating at 62 p.m. h can call for relevant information from the applicant to form worth tax reports and accounting. This is naturally of utmost importance. But what I wanted in particular is the cost of this management. Still says: ▪ The National Services Committee for the Management Board of applications and provides specialised assistance after further agreement. The cost of evaluating applications and other management should be paid from the state's funds. It doesn't say anything about that, and there's a flaw on the bill, Mr President, how high this cost is. It's just about the cost of a government fund during applications assessment. It could be three places. This could possibly be 10% of the amount at this time, i.e. the 400 million. At that time, we may now have 40 million in charge. I think it is necessary to find answers to the cost. I know the press will be waiting for this to be done and waiting for these payments to be paid and lent to anyone who wants to. I agree with it. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, the chairman of a minor opinion, came in early in a fine speech: then what? Is this what should come, that we may have to put up to half a billion a year in the private media around here? Or is it just an operation that is being performed now because of the virus epidemic and the difficult conditions of land management? I think it's necessary to answer that political parties will answer that question. What do they see in these matters? Is this the thing that should come, that the treasure of the kingdom shall continue to strengthen this multitude? There are a lot of things that the state's budget needs to be funded and has done through the virus epidemic, and the debt of state funds is growing tremendously fast and that this year is about 320 billion and becomes greater because of the actions the government is taking in the water and has been introduced to a financial committee. This is a question that you need to consider, and the political parties need to explain their policy in terms of funding in general to the media for the future. Otherwise, I wanted to agree with what is presented here, and I've said here, that, of course, the media are very important and have an important democratic role in the community. At the end, Mr. President, I'd like to enter what I cut in 2nd. and especially on the part of Pirata and the United States, where the so - called roof was spoken of as low as 50 million so that the big media could not get everything. I feel that there are misunderstandings in this discussion, as well as the true nature of the media. The press club has even. Commenting on this, the majority of the members of the community are in the middle of the large media. The morning newspaper and the News magazine, Vision, Station 2 and Science, have been in the range of 130 and 150 people. These media run news services 24 hours a day every day of the year, trying to tell us news about the weather, the waves, accidents, natural disasters, and other national events. Some of these media even have a nationwide service, and these media have people every day throughout the year telling people about the news and services and sometimes the inadequacy attempt to compete with the giant on the market, the State Radio, which runs naturally, regardless of the economic reality of other media, as it were. I think it's right to keep this in mind, i.e. The nature of the servers is not the same when it comes to this service. Of course, it is important to support the small private media, but humans can always argue about it, and will probably never agree, in what way this will be published. It is important to have a state in the application procedure. It speaks of a distribution committee that will advertise application for management support, who will be involved in this committee, and so on. All these things need to be kept safe and reasonable. How important that there is no suspicion in such an application procedure! That's what I'd like to reiterate what I've said. It's very important that the platform is in order. That is important to us. We can then take this discussion, and it is necessary to take it, with the State Radio on a commercial market. It is totally unusual that a medium that receives such large amounts of money from a government fund every year will be the person who reaches out to most of the advertising revenues. It is a project that surely needs to be attacked and resolved. I think people must see that it is not fair that the largest person in the market will receive these large funds from a government fund and be so judgmental or that the person who receives most of the advertising revenues, it is difficult for the media to compete in that environment. This, of course, is a very important factor that needs to be permanently resolved. Other than that, I say, " It's important to deal with this particular problem, but many questions do not go away. ' Is this about to exist in the future? It is vital that we ask ourselves, " What is the permanent solution? ' Although this is a single intervention, as it were, to cope with a particular challenge, it is essential that policy remains in this category.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u29	President. Freedom of the press in Iceland is under attack. There is something that should be clear to all of us, and that is a fact that cannot be ignored and cannot be changed by accepting a bill up to 400 million. K. Most of the money will go to the bigger media in Iceland, so it's said right out, and I'll be referring especially to the Morning Press. Recently, the press group published without a border list of the state of freedom of the media in countries of the world. There, Iceland had moved about, and it was specifically referred to as Samherja's campaign against the media people on the land. In addition, the organization in general expressed concern about the greater lack of confidence in the news and newspaper people worldwide. This bill does not change much or as far as the media operates in Iceland. As noted in the reviews received by the General and Education Committee, the reviewler agrees that it's nice to be examined, but it doesn't have to be considered in the context of so many things. As an example, I take as an example what is stated in the account of the reactor, by permission of a president: ▪ The current version of a funding system for implementing maintenance of a media market that cannot be applied anymore. It is shown in that financial groups choose to subsidize unsalvable running models that make the media of growth and sustainable management more difficult to compete on an equal scale. Later, says: ▪ A management system under normal labels would water sceptre as ours, and a number of others would be comparable, including who tell news in the land of their own country, that they may grow and grow. Eliminate more people and develop their products. A closer look for independence. That would also be the prize of green and sustainable management. Instead, changes in original proposals have been made that will lead to the installing of a system as the prize of delirium and the writing of non-salvable, non-evaluable media companies from entering the digital world today. I would also like to give an example of one of the larger media. It was observed from these sources, whether from large or small media, that the bill available does not solve any problems in the big context. A vision, one of the big media companies in Iceland, claims to support the bill as far as it goes, but it says: At the same time, it is urgent that the lawgiver ensures that foreign groups have the same responsibilities as domestics to form when it comes to speech and translation requirements. Today, the competitive situation is very ambiguous in this respect. The Vialplay active force, who recently guaranteed the demonstration rights of the Icelandic male football team's games from 20202/2028, is the common legal entity of the Icelandic national team to use in descriptions of national games. From these accounts it is evident that the bill is in reality no solution to the private media crisis. A complete reexamination of the media market is needed in Iceland, and the government and the rulers need to decide whether this country should be a flourishing media market based or not on the basis of active freedom of expression. My concern is to accept this bill so that the Ministry of Education and Culture could say that it has promoted the press freedom of the United Kingdom. In fact, since the European Court of Human Rights felt that the United States has violated the freedom of expression in certain matters, the media has been called upon to take practical measures to protect the media from freedom of speech. These are the basics of our democracy and if we believe we are living in a democracies community, we need to have powerful media and we need to ensure good research and enlightenment. Much of the research is being done on the smaller media in this country. And, yes, these ramifications often involve the government and can be uncomfortable for those who seek to renew their power here in the autumn. Nor can it be overlooked that an interest organization has a tremendous impact on the media talk in this country. In this context, I would like to point out a few weeks ago the comments made by the bank manager that financial interests have a profound impact on society's discussion. Last week, the Morning Press received some sort of private requisition on a report from the Seaway Department, and it was not permitted to be accessed by other media sources. We may not be surprised at what the report said, about the Icelandic saying system, and about how that system would be better than any other greeting system. The morning newspaper was the only medium to discuss this report and was denied to other media access to the report. This is a problem, and that problem will not be solved with this bill right here and now. But, of course, it is difficult to resist the fact that the bill is presented in response to a request to secure the environment of the media in Iceland. The largest part of this money, as the bill is presented today, will go to larger media, and including the morning paper, which according to my calculations, will account for 100 million of the 400 million that is being distributed here. And I have to point out that when this bill was being discussed in the General and Education Committee, it came to the top. The Minister of Education and Culture of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir at a meeting of the Committee and announced that a working group should be formed to review the environment. As I understood this, the staff was to review the media environment in Iceland in general, not just VOLV. Then, too, there is a need to examine the State Radio in the context of private media. I'm not gonna take a stand here whether I feel it should be in a commercial market or not. It is important that the state's media is in place. It is important to have information about the public, and it should be clear to most people. However, other media also need to be available to discuss other matters. For example, there was time when there was a ban on the mountains because there were two weeks in elections and a certain candidate would not want that discussion to appear. In this, what I think is a little something has happened in the last few years, that the government seems to be afraid of the press. She seems to be afraid of the press, and she seems to be afraid of large private companies who are shopping with goodbyes. Nor can this fear be hidden by accepting the bill available here. I would have liked to see a clear stand from the government, not just from the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education and Cultures, but from the whole government, that it matters that there is the press freedom in the country, that they take seriously when reports that we have fallen on the list of media freedoms in this country, that they take it seriously when the bank manager says that the government has a major impact on the public talk in this country. These are things that matter. These are things that have been repeatedly tried to point out, and these are factors that the government does not seem to understand as important. I think it's a lack of cooperation - it's a little deep in the year, but as a committee member, I take my job very seriously. I take it seriously when it comes to a government bill. I respect the fact that ministers are concerned, but I don't take it well when it's said that they'll use some kind of team to cover these matters completely, and it's promised that they're going to be done firmly, but it's just not gonna happen. Then we're up here three weeks before the end of the council and we're supposed to accept this bill. It's just work I can't accept and I don't think they're acceptable. To this I said, "Pursar and I have a lot of respect for the media and the media freedoms in Iceland." We appreciate it when it comes to being respected. We consider it important for the public to receive the information he is entitled to. And it is important that the government takes it seriously when it comes to suggesting that freedom of expression and the media are not being respected in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u30	A respectable president. A fourth blow to strike, and a fourth cause is extremely important. The importance of a fourth power in the democratic society and the importance of the public in order to form opinions on the basis of information, rather than propaganda and myth, will hardly be mentioned. The bill reacts to a fourth - strike effect. A marketing failure has been dominant and has been a product failure in my particular because consumers, users of the media, have stopped paying more than ever for media use. It is perfectly normal to avoid paying subscriptions to a particular media when you have the opportunity to receive news even produced by the media without paying for it on international media and international media that share such news and share people's response to such news. You can remain well informed without ever paying a subscription to a traditional media. In most cases, the payer for the media usually does so because he wants to support and strengthen the media. He believes that the material produced and produced in the public and public discussions is very important, and it is very important that such a media can operate, that it is important that professional journalism is practiced in the country because of the impact I mentioned above. In other words, people have stopped paying for the use of the media. It is the large market failure that has become available, and it can even be said that the media of the kind that was practiced here in the last century, and the above is based on an out - of - date running model, and this is especially true of newspapers, a subscription magazine such as the Morning newspaper. Such a media is being held in a baloney loss because of related views, and I worked here when we as consumers pay for the use of media media media because we believe it is important that its media materials come to the public. In the case of the morning newspaper, it is the owners of the press that believe that the media's materials are important to the public, and they want to contribute to this by providing an enormous amount of money. Now, when it comes to strengthening such activities, strengthening such owners, strengthening the wealthy who run the media in great losses, it is safe to use old terms from the last century on - and to ask the president for favors in the local congregation - or in the skirt - folding hospitals. There has been a market problem in the media in Iceland and human society that has been reported on the activities of the international media and media companies; however, there has been a lot of talk about the State Radio, VOLV, and its use of advertising markets that are believed to be the growth and maintenance of the Special Media for cleaning. It may be, and I think it needs to be investigated, both to find out how that effect is and also to find out how likely the advertisements that are being published in the Kingdom News meet the national media. This should be examined carefully before making the decision to take the Kingdom News out of a commercial market. Since 1930, Kingdom News has been in the advertising market since 1966 and has been running through advertising for all the time. As a result, you may think, some sort of balance, some condition that may be unhealthy. I don't know. There are others who are better off than I do. I think we need scholars, we need advertisements, and we need professionals on the field of advertising, to help us evaluate it. We are not to evaluate it from ideological reasons, as some seem to be. Councilmen do, and when I've been listening to some members of the council talking about the State Radio and the state, I've thought of Ronald Reagans, who proclaimed that the state was the problem of all things, not the solution of anyone. The government would be the problem all over the place, and thus these middle-class liberals appear to look at State Radio. It is a vision, it is a ideologies, that the state should not participate in this kind of business and therefore be eliminated. I believe with the bill it's being handled with the most urgent problem the media has in the media, private media operating. I believe there is an urgent public interest level that allows the media to thrive in this country and be able to function and continue to serve the public. I do not agree with the assessment given here on two occasions by members of the Central Party, which appeared to a spokesman for Iceland's Journalist Society, that large media services are more likely to be saluted because more people work there and there are larger editors. I'm not sure that this is true, and I'm not sure that it is, rather, true that it is more productive than the small media of the hour or the numeral, in fact, if they are not. I think we're here to deal with a market failure which is the one I've previously described in this talk, i.e. The major market problem is that technology has done it, and new media, following a new technology, has simply gotten used to not paying for media use. But I'm not sure that this is a permanent failure. I think it's abnormal that you can enjoy the fruitage of other people's work without paying for it. I think the problem has shown that evolution is in order for people to pay for what others do for them. People want to pay artists for what they're creating, people want to pay for music, they show the examples. People want to pay for literature. Technology has found ways to make this possible, and I think that similar developments will occur and are actually taking place where the media are involved. However, the pressure of the media is urgent, and I don't think it would be possible to resist the bill, even though it is now in the form that I have various and, in fact, many comments on it and there I think I can do better. I believe, however, that the problem is that we need to take action with him now. I think we need to get this fund started quickly and that he needs to prove himself by working for some particular time. I was opposed to the vote for sunset on the bill adopted at 2nd. I think it's important that this kind of treasure gets to develop and develop, and people learn how it works. I believe there should be a firm basis for this kind of trust and forethought. Prescientity is a highly underestimated quality in Icelandic commercial and economic sectors. In time, it can be imagined that such a fund will develop into a kind of supply of research, as mentioned earlier, or that people can devote themselves to larger work in this area, which takes time and effort and money to work. I believe that such a fund will always have enough work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u31	A respectable president. On the 1st and 2nd. This matter has been discussed in particular with the media. I think it may be said that there is a mark of this discussion that everyone is aware of, of that factor there is no disagreement, and, of course, the situation has been clear to all of us for a long time. The importance of the media for society and democracy in the community, I'd like to say, is also clear to all of us. That's in the light I'd like to reiterate to lateness at the highest. A minister of education in private media is serious. Of course, it's clear from the discussions on this subject, both here at the conference and also at the General and Education Committee, that the government cannot agree with a case that reflects some vision or some ideologies about the media in Iceland and the market. This is a case that is evident to the members of the Independence Party. This situation is made up of members of the Left Green Committee who sign it in advance. It tells quite a few stories, so it is, in fact, that it seems that, in fact, it is a matter of which the forwarding party is primarily involved, even with. The nominees'opinion of a greater part of the General and Education Committee is a text which is primarily characterised by it, to me, as it is not said. I think that in politics it is often, so silence tells a lot of history, and that, of course, it does here. I think it's in basics like this, since the weakness of this administration is going to be tangible. It's happening and it's happened. All of us realize that the situation of the unique media is difficult and that the goal of the bill is important and good, and I support the aim of promoting the national media. It is simply for the sake of the community to do so, as it is difficult for the environment to deal with the media, the public situation becomes heavy, and it is dangerous. There's been a lack of discussion on this matter, going to the depth of a conversation about the cause. Why is the media's environment so heavy? What is the most important thing in this regard? Is there anything you can do about the variables that cause this heavy position? There's no conversation, and that's, I think, about the point the government can't get together. She can, for example. Unable to establish a joint decision on whether and to what extent RUS should be on a commercial market, and that is why there is simply no discussion on that point. Nor can it control and tackle or respond to the fact that foreign giants, trade companies, influence domestic markets, but they pay no fees, salary, or taxes and have great activity. By not accepting these factors, this bill will lead to bringing in these traces, which, however, are high enough for the Icelandic state and the Icelandic taxpayers, but this case will primarily continue to maintain the complex and complex environment of the private media. We know that a committee was set up to discuss these matters, perhaps to cut the elements from the bill that divide government classes. The questions about advertising status are set aside in a special committee, with the Council's General Committee, as well as on the topic panels. Instead, it has become a way of sending up to 400 million people to the private media. K. every year. The political ide of the media environment in Iceland is completely out of the question. The goal is to strengthen the private media to enable them to do their part in modern democracy, and that is an inevitably important goal. Of course, when no particular ideologies are involved, but only an expensive patch, the result will not be long enough because there is no discussion of these two key variables on the position, i.e. Foreign materials that suck up the funds and specific upper positions of VOLV. This seems to have led to the fact that a section of the council can't think to support the case unless a sunset law is inserted so that this is actually a discussion of action for the next two years, a bill that will offer strength to the end of 2022. There the pain limit for the Independence Party seems to have been, and it can't go beyond that. There is also what will be after that time, but there is now another government. Of course, I'm going to allow myself to assert that the political objective and the political conversation should have been about more than this, about creating a worthwhile situation for the long term private media. I'd like to reiterate that it is my clear opinion that the careful domestic, state-bound newscast, RUS, is of good quality. However, the state - bearing medium and private drivers are supposed to be able to live together in a market, and under best circumstances, this should go hand - to - hand so that the servers, government drivers as well as personal skills can directly and indirectly support one another with their common existence. That's why it's so bloody we're not here to discuss both aspects of this matter together, i.e. the state-running medium and the private medium and the international variables I entered earlier. It is amazing to listen regularly to words of the highest degree. In the media, a minister of education who says that it feels that things in the media should be in a certain way, that she wants to see certain changes she doesn't suggest, does not even try to find out how they're going to be in a church hall and has not made their seminary. It's like the highest. A minister of education may forget that her title has power. It makes statements about some ideas that it does not represent the legislature. This means that global policy is missing into this matter, and it is incredibly serious in view of the importance and role of the media, since entering the market in this way can lead to unexpected consequences, perhaps consequences even to the anticipated and possible goal. I also feel that in some way it is normal to support the private media in the light of their basic role and their aim to be strong in the market. Of course, it needs to be looked to in what form and in what way it is done. Is e.g. can help with taxes and fees, or should a direct payment be made? Could it be done at the same time by promoting innovation in this area? It should be a competitive fund, etc.? Of course, the government may not directly eliminate the commercial business. Let me say in the context of the approach that it should be that the burden of evidence must be on the idea of going in that way. That's not necessarily the case. According to this route, no media gets more than 100 million. K. every year. That's the conclusion of the government classes. Another presentation could be: One media can get 100 million. K. from the state each year, with 400 in the pot. Which media will match? And what is behind that thought? How will it affect other servers? And what are we doing there, in connection with normal market competition? What effect will this have on lesser ones so that they can accept these contributions from the Kingdom? I think we're here on cautionary techniques and measures, and in this context, it's a reason to remind again of the review of the Contestant Commission of the case, which reminds us that one of the main objectives of the media laws is to promote the diversity of the media. The situation in the media market is not new. That's why this case is the highest. Secretary of education and culture is a big disappointment. All this election period has been discussed and discussed in the community and here in the plagiar hall every now and then. However, in a complete period of time, this is the answer and the conclusion. The situation is not black/white on the media; neither are the solutions. This is not to say that there is a simple solution. But it has to be this way, when such an operation is drawn up, that it is a ideologies and some vision guided. It can be seen that this is not the case, and the position of the judges themselves, and the discussion here in the hall absolutely crystallizes it. I have to say, I hate it, and it's disappointing, to the top. The minister of the media is not present at this meeting that has been good today. This is part of the missing political conversation. I repeat, I believe that the importance of the media is such that support for this case can be justified and it will be done in the interests of public interest because the media are a factor in defending democracy. But it does matter how things are done. I feel that this case has a certain inability of these three groups, that somehow there is no solution that has been knit up here. There is no political ideologies, no bill, no product, in accordance with that ideologies. Here is, and that's what I'm most critical of, nothing in these foreign groups, nothing about RUS and support is being pulled out in 2022. As you read the description of the majority of the section, you can see that none of the factors that have been discussed throughout the term period are being considered. Much is said about what needs to be considered, the point is to correct viewpoints, but no steps are taken. The aim of equalizing domestic and foreign media status is discussed, but no actions are proposed, not one action that could meet this level of recovery. This subject is included in the committee of several members of the council, and I cannot see that there are any special signs that this committee should produce something that will affect this matter. I'm not quite caught with the way I'm going to vote on this case because I don't feel good about it and things that are hard to deal with. Of course, I am aware that the situation is serious and requires response.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for many questions about the bill. I was going to ask you what. At the end of her talk, a senator may have asked, but her answer may be, to the extent possible, when she said that she had not made up her view of the bill. She was most concerned with the viewpoint of others on the bill in her language, much more than with her own. It would be nice if that were the case. A senator could confirm that I understood it correctly, i.e. that she has not yet taken her stand on the matter. But I'm going to, to be reasonable, to say that, of course, it's not a single thing, and the bill available here, with the existing adjustments, is a compromise. There is no doubt about it, and no one is hiding that this is a compromise of different viewpoints. It is quite clear, and so it is, of course, very often with legalization here at the council that for progress, one must try to make a decision in order to make a decision. The choice is to do nothing or to do something and to get them together as to what you can do about it. Because of one point in a speech of some kind. I'd like to guess, and only to underline it as if I did at a meeting in the General and Education Committee this morning, that this bill, of course, is not the beginning and end of the government or political efforts to create a private media economic environment. It has, of course, been referred to a particular committee work where an important aspect of this work is being considered. I just wanted it to be right here during this discussion that I think it's very important that the Committee on Education Ministers provide conclusions on this subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u33	A respectable president. Maybe I'd like to start with the final words of who. A senator who sincerely agrees with him on the fact that it would be impossible for this committee to give up some of the suggestions that the case should continue to unfold. I also remind you that already the highest. A minister of education set up this team, he was given a reminder, a delay out of the March months, and since then nothing has been heard, and hardly a word to the group. But it's quite true, I concluded my point by saying that I hadn't made it up to me how I'm going to vote on this case. Of course, governments have to work, so compromises and criticism do not compromise. But this is something else, I'd say, because this is a custom, fear, I'd like to say, in a case that has been for years in the community. Private drivers pay the price. And when it comes to the position of special media, which I think everyone agrees to be the foreign - language organization on the one hand and then certain higher positions of RUS, are not in the middle of the conversation, and most of the parts cannot even talk about them in their committee party then there is something more than a compromise. This process is in this way, I mean, that it's affected the way it looks, it's something more than compromise. I'm asking why. A senator, since we are discussing my position on the matter: Is he pleased with this matter as it seems, in the suit it is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for asking this question. I waited for that question to be asked and was delighted to have the opportunity to answer it. I'm not happy at all about this, like so many things going on here at the council. If it were my will for one of them, I don't think much would be done at the council, but on the other hand, I'll accept the compromise on the table and back it up. I support this compromise, but I'm not saying that I would have wanted to change the environment of the individual media in much more ways. I believe that we still have grounds to do whatever the education minister's team is doing, which I say I give a lot of hope. The reports of the members of that group indicate that there is a real movement on the subject and that there is a real job going on. I hope that this case will not be the only thing that will be discussed, whenever it will be done. I hope that all of these work will produce some tangible results in more fields than just the ones in the form of those that, of course, matter to the media companies. However, it is not near enough to make the work environment bearable, and perhaps to some extent, I would agree. A senator that other measures could be far better and much more effective in promoting the media in the field of work than in this kind of strength, which is always limited in its nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u35	A respectable president. I noticed why. A senator was very happy that I asked him about the matter, so I may have to start making it a habit to do so more often. I thank him for the answers, but he says he's not happy with this matter. Neither am I. I think it's a whisk. A senator that by separating other factors, even the major issues, we remain with a solution that is that mine does not know best. Then perhaps I would like to ask him, as a result of this exchange between us two senators, who are not particularly pleased with this case: Count back. A member of this particular way, the way of entering a company in a private market with a bone sponsor, promising or normal in these areas? Does he have any concern that this methodology of supporting the commercial private media may weaken the media's independence by being directly dependent on the State, perhaps I do not say entirely, but are on government donations? Or is this way possible in order to do the opposite, of course, the goal of strengthening their independence and defending it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u36	Mr. President. It is inevitable to start by making serious comments on how this matter was resolved quickly from the committee to the point where there seems to be a loss of opinion or debate in view of how the debate has developed here at the Assembly Hall of II. ... aboutthiscase. In this regard, members of both the administrative and administrative authorities have emphasized that the matter would take a further look at the committee and point out a number of factors that would need to be considered better than that, and that there would be insufficient success, stressing that the matter would be set in context and considering the two already existing issues and that are closely related, an integral part of this matter. On the other hand, I refer to the council proposal made by the Middle Party members. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, the first official, deals with how to handle a matter not mentioned at all, in the case we address here, in the case we speak. Overseers'position on markets and the great impact it has on the private media. On the other hand, I refer to a bill. Óli Kárason's son and Brauns Brynjar Níelsson, who are also involved in the aspect of RUS and the impact of Kingdom Radio on the business of private media, although in a very different way, but as discussed in the discussion, there is no basis to reconcile these two topics, mentioned here to have waited, so that they will be a whole-scale case. Or, if it turns out, go one way rather than the other. The key point, Mr. President, is that these two matters are inevitable to be considered before the issues we discuss here and for which very clear and clear arguments were made in yesterday's discussion and the case must be sent back to the committee with the message that the committee was expected to put this into context. For good reason, it seems that it has just been forgotten, or has been done on purpose, to deal with the major factors in the problem here being attempted to solve, for temporary purposes, human beings, i.e. Factors of the State Radio and, indeed, the influence of the foreign topic team and community media that take in an ever larger part of the Icelandic commercial market without paying the cost of extra taxes on the country. This is simply released, and when it comes to saying that neither in the bill itself nor in the members of the greater section is said to be that the main problem being solved is claimed to be examined at a later time. In fact, this case has been examined, Mr. President, the state radio position. V.E.G. The Minister of Education appointed a special team of workers, I think it was called, to review the state of the State Radio and the possible changes there. The appointment of that group drew considerable attention. It was not much for men to seem to be agreeing with and, as it were, all right. But you might have assumed that this group would bring something back if he was merely appointed three members of the administrative body. But no, there's little to ask of this group, yet they're all whiskers. Councilmen who put this group on the Committee that discussed the bill here on payment and adopted the opinion of the greater section. In other words, Mr. President, the group that was supposed to become some kind of minister's experts, or provide alibi for the State Radio issue, this special radio group, forgot completely to consider its work in the processing of this case and the committee, which, of course, tells their own history of how all of this is being accomplished. The job review of the State Radio Assessment should have been completed a long time ago. Many weeks ago, the final deadline came out to return that job. It has not been remarked in a bill designed to address the problems involved in the state's supreme position on the market that this same group has been looking at, or at least. have been examined in the past few months. This shows us in black that they're trying to tread this large elephant under a blanket in the past election. The question is, When and whether this group will ever make its own return, and then what matters is considered to be important because it is a political group, and it is uncertain whether something will be done with the views of this issue. Councilmen on the State Radio next. It is much more odd that the Council of Congress has not been used as an opportunity to intervene in the bill, which, as I say, is basically about solving the problem that the same senators have been considering in their group, which all of which has been a very fucked-up process. It's called, Mr. President, support for the private media, bill to legalize the media law, No. 38/2011. This is not recent, this case, it was here in the previous council, and it was not very successful. There was nothing of that at the time, for many members of the council then saw that this may not be a reasonable arrangement. But then came this virus epidemic. Then, as in other cases, people took advantage of this opportunity and began calling it the Covid operation. Thus, at the end of the last council, the game is repeated, and it is still claimed that this arrangement, called temporary arrangements, is a response to Covid. Why in the world are humans no longer doing this than renewing the problem here and preventing it only in the power of time shortages made by those members of the same party and in the power of an emergency? It was clear long ago that the media market in Iceland was in a marvelous crisis. The media has always been difficult in Iceland for everyone except the government owner, but it was possible for everyone to be aware as soon as this government began, and earlier, that the situation in Iceland's press market called for special action. There had been a considerable debate and the need for much force, the need to relieve the media, to improve their management environment, and I now don't talk about competitiveness, the big problem of Icelandic media markets, the tremendous competitiveness of the private and foreign media sources. But it seems that nothing has been done to consider this until now, along with the previous edition of this case, that there is an attempt to hide the Kingdom News in a group of three people. His deadline is long gone, and then it just makes people like it's all forgotten. I don't understand, Mr. President, this process of working, for it is revealed in a bill that more people have noted in the discussion that in many ways is very flawed. I'm going to quote one paragraph from the members' list of the rest of the section. It says, by permission of the president, about the work on the committee: ▪ Then the view that what was stable was not clear enough. - It's true, the viewpoint that so many have. --in this context, the greater part points out that depending on point 2. and to help you understand the facts, you will be able to do more than one thing in the future. In this regard, the committee tries to answer many indications that it was rather unclear what was robust. And how is this done? Yes, the committee says: What is stable is news, news, news, and discussion about social issues. Mr President, what are social issues? And what is not a social issue? Are sports social issues? Sports do not seem to be a community issue in the highest esteem. Secretary of sports and this committee. Is it possible to form a media version of people who are working toward a goal for public welfare? Companies to the public good must include social goals. What stands out is that the minister, as well as this committee, which is to handle the distribution, the State Department of distribution, simply determines for itself the role of social issues in media coverage and, hence, strengthening. Mr. President. There are many other factors to consider. So I didn't come to discuss the comparison between the state church and the State Radio. The government radio, as known by men, is not always impressed by the National Church and has represented a gathering campaign more than once, with reverse prowess, to get people to register themselves from the Church of Nations. But it is very contrary to the separation of kingdoms, radio, state, and VOLV. Isn't it time, Mr. President, no matter what the plans for the continued state radio operation, to, at least, The legislators show a slightly more reasonable attitude toward private citizens on this difficult market, considering a system of equality that is guaranteed in a constitution, allowing the media to have a small chance to live and thrive without having to rely on annual government grants?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u37	Mr. President. I was hoping a man could start his speech here at 3rd. in a more positive way than it is. Of course, there is an amazing situation. Just yesterday, this case was referred to why. General and educational committees for treatment between 2 and 3. and somehow assume that the meaning is to look at some things, to examine some factors. I specifically introduced it in my speech on the vote last night, though representing the Central Party, well. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, would have been the one who wanted the case to go to a committee between 2 and 3. it would have been in the words of more members of Congress that it would be a greater wish than just from us in the Middle Ages. Then what happens? V.E.G. President. It would be very good if the Chairman of a man were. The General and Education Committee would be here to respond to the criticism I present in his treatment of the case. I'm gonna give myself a second. The head of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, is hearing this. But this may not be possible, for there seems to be no interest in dealing with the matter in a material way. The matter was taken over several minutes, and because of it again, it was sent out from the committee without recognition, apart from that. paritaprevir Sæmundsson is offering a minor opinion on the matter. It was not just a member of the Central Party that a material discussion between 2 and 3 would arise. Two days ago, members of Parliament, including a member of the United States, arrived. Yeah. Óli Björn Kárason and Brassur Níelsson, now sitting on the throne, recommended a special bill, and I think most members of the council believed that it would be discussed in some context with the bill in question. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. What happens? There's absolutely nothing that's going to happen. Clearly, there was no intention. This is all going to go to some play of the categories that now make the government, to get through 2nd. To get through 3rd. where there is a limited amount of talk time. Of course, the signals sent by these messages are encouraging those who have doubts about the matter to hold fast to 2 Peter 3: 1. If that's how the government groups want to go through this last month in the terms of this election, then they'll benefit themselves. It's not acceptable, and it's gonna happen again and again. How beautiful it is to know that material matters and deep discussions are indeed taking place between the 2nd and 3rd districts! to bring personal differences into the earth. Then what happens? Case is taken primarily to appear, and probably never, in this case. I'd like to keep this criticism of the work of the General and Education Committee in place. This would be fine if it was never meant to do anything between 2 and 3. Um., if it wasn't meaning to look at anything, and if it wasn't the meaning at all, the three issues that exist on this same subject, the case of this matter, at least. Óli Kárason's son and Brauns Níelsson's son, as fine as it is, and a matter that we in the Central Party met earlier in the winter, where I am the first messenger, who goes out to give the public the authority to set aside a period of the radio fee to the people's choice. What was so difficult about discussing these three matters materially at the same time? Nothing. Also, the role of a special Senate committee is to study the laws of the State Radio. The Senate Committee has three members of the board of directors. The head of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, is there. The Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is one of the three members of Congress, and the chairman of this council committee is shocked. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. When this group was put together, the group was set up a time limit. It was March 31st. Now the second part of May has arrived. What is this show? It all seems to be going to the top. Education minister to buy himself a little more in time with any game playing without doing anything materially on the subject. This group, as far as I know, has not done anything. There is no vision, no speculation, no suggestions in the two months or about the date the group was due to be finished. Then these two members of the committee came up here to talk about last night's vote. Councilmen Páll Magnússon and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, why mention this committee of Congress as if something very good and progressive on the trip. Here we go. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon here on the doorway, and I'm telling myself that he listened to the criticism I have proposed to the treatment given to the case in an General Education Committee between 2 and 3. But I came back to this council, which was called here, and why. paritaprevir In his speech yesterday, Páll Magnússon spoke specifically about being at work: Why wasn't that work taken into consideration? Many talk about the elephant in the living room in this case, which is the highest position in the state radio, but it is not called a single word. There you go. Full - time members of the Governing Body are able to present a thought - provoking view of this matter. We're in the second circle of some of the Covid's songs in terms of support to the private media. The suggestions are not missing. They don't need the ideas, they're all lying around and they've been lying around for a long time. They just don't do anything with them, and that's what I'm criticizing. There are plenty of good ideas that exist, but the only solution humans seem to be willing to complete is that private media territory too. If you think it's a good way to balance this very inflexible position between private media and state radio, with its 7 billion each year's provision, I just don't believe that there's an attitude. People of the Independence Party, I just can't believe it. But if it is, it's fine. I'm going to use these last minutes in my speech to remind me of some of the suggestions given on improving this position on the market, to reduce the superior positions that the Kingdom Guide has in the media market, and to improve the provision of life in private. Even if it were only a good start. There have been ideas that are widely held. They even turn. that the taxile change in the network environment of the server, possibly something related to the value tax on the revenue of the private media. Adjustments can be made so that the insurance fees do not weigh down as much on the editorial functions of the server as they do today. Of course, it is also possible to simplify the order of the media to work within. The work given to the media committees is to be done. It will not just be helped when there is nothing else to be done. There are many measures that can be taken to simplify the network environment, making it less complicated at the same time as possible to work through the tax system, which is equal to these enterprises and would be much more healthy than putting all this media on state beds in one way or another. Part of yesterday's discussion was hardly acceptable. For the most part, I refer to the conduct of the Council member of Pirata, Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, who was in the process of calling it nothing more than shame. It included various dead bodies with no special support. In addition to the suggestions that have been made, and there are others, there are two cases. There's a problem. Óli Kárason's son and Bristur, Brynjar of Níelsson, the senators of Olei Björn, to draw the Kingdom News out of an advertising market in a certain step. Then it is our proposal at the Central Party Congress that goes on with what I mentioned earlier that currency will be allowed to make the basis for the volume of the radio fee for the medium they please. If something becomes a real measurement of people's will to support the media, it is. If the state radio status is the one that is flaunted by polls and in various ways, most people will expect to take full control of their radio fees for State Radio. I have to admit, I'm skeptical of the conclusion, if people get that freedom. There are, of course, classes here at a council that you would have thought would bring joy to the idea, freedom groups, but maybe it's more in word than on a table in chapters. I want to come to the end of my speech, in the 3rd. Um, this is a temporary operation to be performed here. She's badly implemented by me. It is designed that it does not solve the problem. It's a bandage on an apron wound that will never be anything but that. Of course, I have a clear understanding that the servers would like to see the end of this matter. Of course, this case will end, but I criticize that we have arrived in the last month of Congress during this term, in the fourth year, but the terms haven't all been so long lately, and if they're still finished. We've reached fourth year and we've had the need to adapt the environment to the media all this terms and we're still here in some temporary emergency operation, Covid. What kind of song is this? There is no indication that there is a meaning behind the aesthetics that regularly be heard about the importance of supporting private media and adapting their environment. This bill doesn't, just not at all. True, there is a temporary injection of funds, but this cannot be a permanent solution. So I encourage the entire body of Congress not to be stopped here but to form a formal way that the environment of the individual partners will be greatly improved by adjusting the tax environment of these enterprises as we try to simplify the regular work of the partners inside.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u38	A respectable president. This is a very important business in our society, a industry that will be able to play a major role in rebuilding the Icelandic economy, providing greater support for an Icelandic community with a marvelous economy and value across the country. I have a new proposal for the bill here on 3rd. The case and order it. It says: ▪ Before 1st par. Let us see two new articles: a. Why? g.) The following changes will occur in 6. a law: a. 1st sentence 1st. phrases: A marine institution shall suggest a minister for the quantity of fertile salmon, measured in biomass that should be allowed at sea each time in a designated marine region, where the work has been, or is being performed, on the basis of genetic assessment. b. 2nd matter of 3 mg. phrases like: Before V.I.A.P.P.D. Is open on 1st. The Agency shall seek the advice of a consultation committee, as per Article 3. Section 4. b. Why? g.) The following changes will occur in 6. b Songs: a. 1.mg. phrases like: The minister should decide as often as it seems necessary what kind of fish or sea space should be evaluated for transportation and when to do so. The minister shall take into account the request for the implementation of periphery food from those who appoint representatives to the FOPC. Maintenance evaluations should be performed by the National Institute of Marine Research or by a member approved by the Ministry of the Management Board on the basis of the binding information provided by the Agency. The provision of transport assessment for a specific area should be available prior to the preparation of a coastal region, as per Article 11. Treat of marine and coastal areas, No. 88/2018. [...] c. 4 mg. phrases: Ministers must set further requirements in the regulations for the handling, version and modification of the carrier tolerance assessment. A respectable president. These changes are provided on the basis of a perennial assessment and the risk assessment of genetic mixtures to explain that a minister should be evaluated for long-term weight tolerance and marine areas on the coasts of the country and that the legislation ensures that genetic management estimates are always covered by those areas of burden tolerance. A test-tolerability assessment is defined in Article 3 of Figure 1. Section 3. Fish breeds that assess the tolerance of remote or isolated marine areas to receive increased organic pressures without having adverse environmental effects. Based on its carrier tolerance assessment, the maximal bioweight of the carers per Marketing Authorisation and the Marketing Authorisation is determined. With law No. 101/2019 was made of the change in vehicle tolerance directives that, instead of deciding the priorities of the marine environment, it was placed in the office to determine which area should be the perpetuity of carrier tolerance. It will then be involved in the Marine Research Institute to propose a proposal for genetic risk assessment or the quantity of fertile salmon measured in biomass to be allowed at sea at a particular sea level on the basis of risk assessment, as per 1 mg. Section 6. Fish breeds. Thus, according to the current law of one of the most important governmental legislations based on scientific methodology for determining where and how fish farming works. Remarkable to the declared aims of fish breeds, as they appear in Article 1. The law. There has been no experience in the implementation of these studies since the Law on structural assessment and the risk assessment of genetic preparation. In June 2020, the marine economist and agricultural minister confirmed a reimbursement of the Marine Research Institute as a result of the possible genetic preparation from salmon farms. An in-depth assessment of genetic mixtures is expected to produce 106,500 tons of salmon in seawater as measured by the maximum biomass and includes a 20% increase in the license of fertile salmon from the early risk assessment of the Marine Research Agency. In writing, the answer to the ocean's emissary and agricultural ministers to the written inquiry at the Council of the Day. June 24, 2020, it was found that in 2015,2018, ten of the fjords or the sea's weight - resistant areas were estimated to be 144,500 tons. It was also noted that a minister had not requested a carrier assessment from the validation of law No. 101/2019 and the lack of transport assessment in any beach or in any region. In order to achieve the aim of fish breeding laws, it is important that governments at any given time enforce the laws and employ the scientific measures laid down to set up a fire zone so that, as a result, the ecosystems of wild fish species are not affected and their sustainable uses are not threatened. The service fee submitted to the Marketing Authorisation Holder and flows to the environment fund of marine farms is including to cover the costs of structural tolerance, monitoring and other comparable research projects. The need to sharpen the wording of 1. Section 6. A fish breed for the genetic risk assessment so that cohesion will be ensured by assessment of carrier resistance and the risk assessment of genetics, however, so that areas evaluated for carrier tolerance are always within the genetic risk assessment. This is important in view of the agreement between carrier tolerance and genetic risk assessment, such as 4 mg. Section 6. a and 3 mgr. Section 6. Björn-shaped. Code 1. Section 6. b Fish breeding outlaws do not accurately define which fjords and areas of the sea to be long - suffering; rather, a minister hides the priorities of the specific areas to compare to each area. However, it is reason to highlight the importance of building a carrier assessment in coastal seas where such assessments have not been conducted and there is a clear explanation of the duties of the Minister to determine as often as it is necessary which areas should be evaluated for periphery and in any order. The decision to prioritize areas is proposed to indicate that a minister should look to the provision for transport evaluation of areas from those who are represented in a fish - farm consultation committee so that the decision of a minister should be met by the minister who had previously been a member of the Marine Research Centre. Look at the number of existing applications for permission in areas to prioritize areas. It is then suggested that the review of the perennial assessment and the risk assessment of genetic mixture should be reviewed by the Marine Research Institute at intervals of less than three years. A respectable president. These changes include: Work on coastal areas is required, according to Article 11. Treating marine and coastal areas from 2018, making sure that prior to the completion of this work, the land's weight tolerance and risk assessment has been completed. We have to keep in mind that when these laws, concerning the marine and coastal organization, it was done just because they built fish farming around the country. This was achieved with the rural communities in the country for certain compromises in their legal process. Such is the case with a so - called regional body that deals with organizational matters, where more than one community can come in. There was a agreement on how the Council was appointed to this area. The Minister's proposal, on the law bill submitted to the General Assembly, expected this to be primarily at the scene of the institutions of the State, i.e. The EEA and the Department of Environment and Employment and their relevant institutions with little involvement in the local community. The compromise was overcome by local members or local representatives of local governments now appointing a representative for these regional councils working on home planning. The decision to take care of the case was especially the same as it is taken in all our neighboring countries where our community is assigned to this organization, such as another organization in their territories throughout the country. In our neighboring countries, it is most common to know that rural planning rights reach out to sea by one to two miles. Then there would not have to be any specific laws to do so but simply change existing organizational laws. But it was a compromise that came along. These laws were passed in terms of salmon breeding, just because of salmon breeding. We are now looking for extensive marine and coastal planning work to start in several parts of the country and in areas where there is no carrier tolerance or risk assessment of salmon farming. They should therefore create an organization that does not assume whether or not there should be salmon farming. We're always talking about trying to improve the effectiveness of our work here at the council and in the regular work we're living in. This means that if a fish farm was then introduced into areas that have been organized, the whole organization must be taken up and adjusted. So I think it's very natural for us to link this up and make it a requirement to run a periphery and risk assessment in the areas where fish farming is planned and to determine if there is room for fuel from the technical and scientific grounds that we give ourselves in this assessment. It is good to bear in mind that the Icelanders have stricter legislation on this than are known in the countries around us who are building much up in their fish industry. It does not have a reputation for risk estimation, and the experience of Icelanders in this way may become a pattern to other nations, and it would not be the first to use the resources of the ocean that Iceland is seen in those areas. A respectable president. It's a lot to say that what we're waiting for after the shock caused by the Covid virus is to build new and varied jobs, new and varied resources in Icelandic society. This is encouraged by national specialists in the employment sector and by the labour market. We are also encouraged to increase the number of eggs in the basket, as it is called, from OECD, from the World Bank and elsewhere. As to this, experts agree, the importance of building innovation in Icelandic employment and valuables because of the potential for disaster because of the poorness we live in. There is no question about it, and I have not seen any industry that stimulates as much construction and increase as much work and makes as much value in time as fish farms have done. Of course, living things need to be handled with caution. To that end, we have set strict rules to abide by. But there was a lot of discussion in the winter, when they were putting on phlegm dishes and people were again seeing the salutation of fur after two years of stopping, how important a hairy society, an Icelandic community, the export value of hairy fish. No one mentioned that salmon exports last year exceeded the quality of the hairy matter, and they grow even greater this year. The figure is vast, and we can do even better, a respectable president. There is no need to reenact the magnitude of the impact that is on the underneath, especially today. On the south side of the West and on the West coasts - not many years have passed since the release of these communities was announced. There's growth. We're seeing a nursery based. We're seeing students back in school. That's how the structure works. We see companies that were there multiply their activities, and young people move to these places to participate in the structure. The same is true in the East. There is a possibility, a respected president, that this can take place in many parts of the country. It is essential for the Icelanders to be active participants in these matters. We will see many changes in the security of the marine environment and possibly for the future increased production of so - called saluna. [[The president calls.]] This will change all circumstances and open up new seas around the country for these great opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk and for the interesting adjustment proposed by Jón Gunnarsson's son. Of course, the adjustment as it lies is just the text of the proposal. The discussion has not been available in the field ministry or in such a way that you tried to listen carefully to it. A senator said, and I think this is an excellent approach to the matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is involved in the processing of the proposal will see how the following sentences have a possible timeline. It reads, with President's permission: The national transport assessment should be conducted prior to the preparation of a coastal region, as described above. 1 1. legislation on marine and coastal areas Has a what? A senator's opinion of the current work, what real impact on the timelines of areas may be made? I must admit that I find it a reasonable order for things to go wrong. A senator points out that this is happening in that order, but not to such a hipposum army as may be slightly heading in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u40	A respectable president. It is in my opinion that much of the natural context of parts were taken into account by the terrestrial and coastal legislation, which was simply the reason why they were being set, i.e. A growing salmon farm around the country I don't think this has to mean that there is any delay in the planning process, not at all. In fact, I think it's going to be a lot more beneficial for the planning because this can clear up differences between rural society and so-called regional councils and members there. Today, the situation is so clear that the minister of the seminar is actually in charge of whether a decision is made to evaluate the territory. Thus, to produce a marine research agency according to my information, work on water tolerance in the Eyjafjörður has completed, and the risk assessment is very low if it is not done too. But the minister does not want its release, so it is not submitted. Under these circumstances, there is to be an organization in the Eyjafjörður, many rural areas together with the presence of the Kingdom stocks. There is no information about what is at stake. It could much rather delay the process, in my opinion. It is unnatural for rural society to receive information from a minister asking for their opinion on whether to close certain areas of the ocean, but at the same time, it is not published the scientific information based on local fish farms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson respond. Since then, many have been disintegrating in the affairs of fish farming when we saw what has been faced since then and are being corrected in part, i.e. failures performed with the total legalization of 2019. What I want to ask you is why. A controversy of the second, with a warning that you will consider this whole thing, is: 'Alright.' A senator realizes that on this basis a national opinion in each area will be given, that each area will be offered with the credit, in effect, to determine whether there is a plan for fish in that particular area, with the view that members and members of the Parliament and those who form the regulations for this industry will be aware of the possibilities and limitations in each area? The real question is, see what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson estimates that the proposed work would be done in more regions than make up this adjustment now as the bill is before, and the areas that have been evaluated here to give the opportunity to do so? And because I have a few seconds left: does the senator know the minds of the members of the Independence Party on a professional committee for this approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u42	A respectable president. It is not unusual for humans to have been disintegrating, many of which are disintegrating over building a marine farm in Iceland. Of course, history is full of the experiences it had in the past, since it did not work out, and it really did not work out well. But a tremendous change has been made. Technology changes have been very rapid. All safety issues have become so much better than the known and accidents around this industry, releases, strokes, and so forth, the results are exceptions. The knowledge of how to react to such situations has improved greatly and has become a tool for doing so. Of course, there will be a basis for growing confidence in the sector and growing worldwide. Of course, when those who were skeptics, many of them, see how this is developing and happening in other lands, and so on in this country, they notice the magnitude of this change. In 2003 a map of Iceland was published as the then agricultural minister, the Guðni of Ágústsson, and other ministers of that government came in. That map assumed that fish farms would only be on Western and Eastern soil. It was the areas that were considered somewhat safe to form biofuels and salmon rivers. During the 18 years that have passed, much water has flowed to the sea. In fact, the map never really had law-presidents, had no definition of law. Since then, we have given a broad code of laws, so the whole country is really under control. There is no map anymore to determine the circumstances. We take very long into account rules as to what is needed if we allow in a sea equacao in certain places. It is done on scientific grounds, just like any other approach we make. [[The president calls.]] I think it'll open up opportunities for other areas, but now it's ready to be involved in this great structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u43	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son before the speech. I think this adjustment proposal is pretty interesting, I have to say it. The senator's talk made the suggestion more clear to me. The senator later concluded his point against what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is to be talked about the color map that has been lying since 2003. I thought it was some kind of law about where people were expected to have fish farms and where they weren't. But as shown in the senator's case, it really is not. Still, I would like to ask the senator if the color card would interfere with the suggestion presented here. I know why. A senator is very interested in these matters, and I have been on the pro board of this terms, and we have been working on what is now a matter of biomass and what became the law of 2019. At that time, there was a lot to ask about, and we were told, "I am a little far away in the future, and I am somewhere where I am to feed a goat fish. " I have a feeling the Senator has some fresher news about it. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps he could answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u44	A respectable president. First, I want to finish answering the first speaker, huh? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. He asked if I thought that support for the case was given to the members of the Independence Party on a professional committee. I've talked to them about this. The committee does not trust to accept the case as a short-term adjustment, but I have heard of men in which they might be able to support this case, which is a good thing. In fact, it is simply a matter of repeating the demands we make on scientific grounds for this important work. Asked here, will the 2003 card interfere with any of this work? It won't. The map never had any legal grounds. They were more of an idea that salmon farming should be allowed in those areas. The effects are becoming evident. It's been going so well. Investment is huge, and participation in the locals is a big part of it. Of course, it's a revolution, as I know it. A senator knows from his own district, a revolution in these areas from previous economic, social, and local. It also asks about the goat fish and its evolution. There are some two stories about it. I agree with what. A senator in that the information you receive is only misleading. However, men who have been working on a report on these matters recently, experts in this field, have told me that this is actually a short period of time. The trend is rapid in all these matters, in safety issues, and in the case of dry fish. Of course, it will be the complete article when a goat fish can be produced in the same way. However, it must be noted that only less than 5% of the slaughtered fish today are actually sexually mature. [[The president calls.]] Everything else that is slaughtered in slaughterhouses in the sea farm today is a goat fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The senator is correct in saying that the man standing here is a gentleman in the northwestern district and has observed fish breeds in the West. It is a joy to see the great rise there. There's an enormous amount of value on land, but at the same time with it all - I would have called it a luxury problem, but they may not be luxury, i.e. a variety of transportation, housing, electrical, health, and so forth. But there's a big rise on the West. I remember when they said eight, nine, or ten years ago that it would only turn off the lights on the Grand Valley. Now the Valley of Bilddu is in the middle of work, and there's a lot of going up there, like on the beach. But I have one question, because we're dealing with issues that are not directly related to this change proposal that I really like to do, in the case of farming in the sea. Now the Norwegians have begun experimenting on it--or maybe it's started, I haven't quite got it. It was one of the things we were taught in the Committee when we went to Norway for preparation that the bill that became the law of 2019, said that this was the future, a marine farm at sea. It would be in the form of some type of kerosene or large ramps, and it would be in deep water, with a much lower risk of pollution. [[The president calls.]] Is that something we could see in a few days with Icelanders?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u46	A respectable president. As mentioned in my earlier talk, technology in this area is enormous. Norwegians have planned to leave a fire of about 1.3 million tons to 3 million tons. Me and the Icelanders are talking about going to about 100,000 tons. An assignment called Ocean Farm 1 is an ocean project. I think I can say that it's finished with the first superintendent. Undeniably, the images you see in the oil pots are less likely to be affected. This is then located far in the ocean and meets the requirements for such workers. It has also been completed on the first ship, a so - called seaboat that grabs salmon in these heifers and moves to a slaughter station. It's a ship that takes 1,000 tons of live fish in a train. This is an ongoing trend, and the first projects are on their way. Entires are involved, and Norwegians are responsible. Of course, it tells us Icelanders how important it is to be involved, to be involved in this, to be involved in building it up, not to plan on becoming a ponytail in this moment at hand. We need to form a market and we need to develop this. With all the knowledge and experience available in companies that produce all kinds of equipment and equipment for fishing and fishing, and they have a lot of work to do with us in this interaction, we're sure to have a lot to do in this field, like anywhere else. This is a requirement for the local community. Hv. A senator referred to the structure, and I present a bill here at this council that turns to changing the payment of fish farms so that it goes more into the countryside. [[The president calls.]] Building up at the local community is a very challenging task under these changed circumstances, and it is necessary to obtain a natural currency. [[The president calls.]] Of course, at the same time, you must take into account the importance and the need for this article to live at least Similar conditions and conditions exist in our neighboring countries to ensure its competitiveness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u47	V.E.G. President. Here is a bill for changing fish farming laws, of malnourished biomass in fish farms. It's 3rd. I decided to come up to declare my disappointment. I thought we were at great peace with the Committee, that there would be a paradox on the payment of patents that did not go well at the end of the bill approved at the spring council of 2019. The case came into the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and whoever stands and what. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusfsson announced the adjustment of the companies that landed between ships and docks at distribution will allow for the law to come to 2019, as I have said. In fact, it's been denied, I'll let myself say. We, three members of my section of the Committee, sent in a questionnaire with the revised proposal to the Ministry on May 15. Yesterday, the answer was received, and then the case is scheduled for today. It has to be said that the ministry's answers do not mean that it will change its outlook on life. I have studied it in a previous talk on the subject that I expressed my joy in the work at the Committee - for two years, from 2017 to 2019 - to the bill that became the law of 2019 about fish farming. As I have mentioned, we even went to Norway and presented ourselves with fish breeds there. The committee agreed that this work would be done professionally, with the advice of the most skilled experts and all of that. Then, in the final yards of that work, there is a change in the bill, so there is some kind of auction, i.e. The cut points of the old, and the new law has been changed. Then the tremor started, and we saw it at my party that it couldn't work. Then we'd recommend a change of suggestions, which I did and what I did. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was behind us. That proposal was read, and the bill became the law. As it turned out, an established business fell between a ship and a dock and got the same as nothing. I said it then, and again I told the committee that it had been late that men didn't see the consequences and that it was very clear in my mind that it wasn't every man's will for this to happen. This would be the work of men, so it would also be man's job to fix it, and I asked if we could deal with it. To be honest, I was beginning to believe that a few days ago - or what it was, three weeks ago probably - when we arranged for professionals to work with explanations, committees, to go to this job and correct these matters. But there was some kind of fear that it would be an example because it's being moved by law that was agreed to be 2019, that it would change something for other companies that others will then tell you to be unnecessary fear. I can't say if it would change anything, but I would have liked to see this will that I thought had come to work to check how to change and just make the change so that this mistake would be fixed. I didn't want it to go this way. Once again, I have to say a lot of disappointment that the matter has come to this place, through the 3rd. Next, it goes to votes, and we who want to fix this case can't get involved. In itself, this is a good bill. There is a remedy for what was done back then, but that is not enough to correct the situation. I suppose we in my category vote with the bill, but we don't let it off the table as far as it's concerned. V.E.G. President. I just wanted to make it appear in this speech that I was very disappointed that political agreements were not reached. At the beginning of our work, I believed that we were about to make a big issue in the transverse language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u48	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee on Procrastination Act to correct the conversion of travel laws and their renewal. The bill was referred to a committee after 2nd. The committee has reviewed the situation and has been contacted by Sigrún Brynja Einarsdóttir, Þórarinn Örn Þrándarson and Guðrún Gísladóttir, from the Ministry of Professional and Neothesis. The committee received a review of the case from the Skatti. The committee specifically discussed whether it would be possible to extend the duration of travel on May 31 so that it would last as long as travel 2. If the bill is approved, travel will take 2 points on June 1. The majority of the committee proposed a 2nd cover. that the period of travel would be over September 2021 instead of the date of August 31 and was adopted by this adjustment proposal. In the treatment of the case for the Commission, such a change was identified, i.e. to undo gifts from travel 1 would be extended with time to travel 2, this operation called for an increased budget. There is a source of an additional amount of money of 650 million. K. but the bill assumes that the amount of money that is not used for travel administration 1 will run for travel 2. Travel is a government aid, according to 61 st. The EEA Convention, as per European Environment Agency legislation, No. 2/1993, therefore subject to ESA consent. We already have that agreement, as the bill is now. This also applies if the only change in the bill is to extend the time of travel through September 2. Other changes involved in further prolongation of the duration, whether previous or subsequent, would call for a new announcement to the Agency. In view of the fact that such a process could delay the case, the Commission feels that it is not right to suggest any further adjustments in this respect, but it is expected that new travel will take effect on June 1. For the Committee, a consideration was made on whether a special collection should be provided to stimulate museum activities and encourage museum visits. The Commission has an understanding of this point of view, but it seems appropriate to call attention to the use of travel as a payment, e.g. museums or companies offering a demonstration of pay stress on Icelandic culture, history, or nature according to the 5th figures. 1st par. The law. In view of the greater part of the Committee on bill what became the law of No. 54/2020 is noted to evaluate whether activities depend on the directive include: Refer to the terms of museum law, as well as to definitions in other laws and regulations. In view of the circumstances, there is also the willingness that the law should be interpreted rather than overcompensively so that it will not be used as laid out. With 2 st. The bill is proposed to change to Article 3. The law of the law that pays for the amount of money a company can take to a maximum in the form of a traveller. This is what comes with the report of the IRS. The total financial value in support of the linked operator may be a maximum of 260 million. K. Total. The report of the Tatta points out that according to Article 4. legal for travel administration, under the supervision of a travel agency, in which the procedure of the law would not be established, the best supervision for the conditions to be made according to the quotations of Article 2. The bill. According to the Ministry, a travel agency can obtain information on the use of tourism through the country. The amount of money that companies have taken in the form of tourism. This list appears publicly on the travel board. Through the country, however, no contact details can be accessed. Again, it refers to linked parties in the arrangement and that it is not permitted to receive more than 260 million. K. A combination of concentrations, i.e. due to tourism as well as to the legislation established by the Covid decision, such as 2.g. The bill. The highest amount of money a company has taken in the form of a traveller according to the travel board is 46 million. K. The 10th company has taken 16 million. K. The bottoms of the list are smaller people who have received hundreds of thousands of dollars combined. The Ministry then points out that transport companies do not appear to be those who have the right to close-up grants, which are those of which may be able to deliver companies more than 260 million. K. maximum concomitant use. With reference to this and the time of the renewal of renewables only four months, the Ministry considers it unlikely that travelers will exceed this budget. It is also noted that a travel agency is sending messages to all companies who are enrolled and reminds them of the obligation they have to monitor maximums and provide information about linked parties if the information is not consistent with the ones they have in a travel agency. With reference to the above, the Committee does not suggest any further changes in the bill. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this opinion, write why. Senators on hold. Advisory Committee: Director Lilja Rafney Magny Magnúsdóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, conductman of the case, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristándóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Helgi Gunnarsson, María Hjálmarsdóttir, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u49	Mr. President. I recommend here for the Committee to conduct a financial and business committee on a bill to legalize a change of income tax laws. It's called cover-up. The bill suggests changes to 57th pars. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, to make it clear that there is also a business permit for the regular work station. In addition, the tax is suggested that the tax be given permission for the application of a government ticket meets the registration responsibility that does not meet its duties. In fact, the committee has already discussed the matter, it was in the 150th legislature. On the basis of the Commission, she requested a memo from the Skatti, where the Agency's position on certain matters was made. The memo points out that the purpose of the tax monitoring by intermediate management is to ensure that cross-border prices and to counteract international tax practices are warranted. The committee believes that such monitoring is necessary. In this regard, the IRS also points to the tax system. to ensure adequate documentation will result in the preservation of all the necessary data in terms of prices assessments, such as decision of interest in loan trade, choice of goods and services, or any other relevant trade between linked partners. Four. b-joins 1. The bill is required for the amount of fines not a person meets the probationary obligation of the 1st case 5 mg. 57st. Is suggested that fines be studied up to 3 billion. K. For each account year. If guilt consumption can take place for the longest six income years that precedes the year when the decision of the fine is made and the highest level of 12 billion. K. At the previous donation, i.e. At the 150th legislator Council, the maximum amount of money was 6 billion. K. Therefore, in the bill it suggested that the maximum payoff level be considerably higher than at the previous donation. The committee considers it reasonable to consider that if we have legalized advisability, it is also necessary to revise the amount of money based on the obtaining of experience. So the commission suggests that the directive would be in harmony with what was proposed in the bill of the 150th legislature. In that case, it is worth recognizable to enforcing the principles of Article 2. The bill is specifically stated that the law will take up violations or neglect the paperwork that takes place after the execution of the law. The bill's report says that the law will come on the basis of a tip that the bill's subject could lead to recovery measures in resupervising where the head of the government will be granted a guilty warrant six years in advance. The committee points out that this even leads to the problem. of the Court's legal Regulation to legal regulations that recommend the application of administrative laws will generally not be reused. Therefore, it will not be considered necessary to make a special enforcing order that the sufficiency warrants take place only after the entry of the law. Therefore, in order to maintain harmony in the legislation, the Committee suggests that the above judicial hearings will be removed. However, the suggestion does not result in any material change. This element then comes with an appropriate modification form. Hv. The members of Valdimarsson Steindór and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson are signing this opinion in advance, but under the direction of a letter. Óli Björn's Kárason, Jóri, Jóldrídímsson, with a warning, Bristur the son of Níelsson, Rósar Brynjólfsdóttir Bryk Brynjolfóttir, Bryndís Haraldsdotir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, in advance, Smári Mccarthy, and Hjálmar Bogi's Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for history. As the senator mentioned, I find myself at the committee's opinion. I just wanted to mention, and maybe I'd like to have a word with the senator about the change we make on the guilt that I agree with. In fact, it is getting back to where it was during the first donation. What I would like to talk to the senator is that this is a natural way to start walking this way, and perhaps in many respects, it is only natural that legal rights are not determined very high in the first run. But maybe. A senator thought that it would be natural for those principles to be revised or that they had something to do with the radar to keep such a thing in mind to what we hope will not be, that the law needs to be applied to a great degree, and that it does not prove to have the power or the source of encouragement, according to incident, to respond properly to what the bill is supposed to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u51	Mr. President. I was glad that the committee held the matter in agreement, even though it was two years ago. Senators are alert. I was glad that men were then able to bring together a measure of moderation in the beginning when a legal level of guilt was determined. That is why it is worth highlighting what the committee mentioned in the committee opinion, i.e. that the legalization of guiltys is necessary, as it were, in the case of moderation. But the committee also points out that I testify to the court of the committee's opinion by permission of the president: (For fully formatted text, see publication) So the short answer is yes, yeah. Senator. In view of experience, I think it is necessary to revise these amounts. Again, though, I reiterate that there is a need for moderation in this review, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u52	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the full Commission and monitoring committee's committee's committee's involvement with a change in bill to legalize a change of elections to the General Assembly, No. 24/2000, electronic references, etc. I'm going to go over the committee's opinion, it's short and sweet. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting Bryndís Bristís, the Helgadóttir of the office manager and the Árnadóttir of Hjördi of the Ministry of Justice and Erla S.. The committee received a review from the head of the Republic of Reykjavík, which made a comment on the use of the term ◯ electronic signature in the bill. For electronic signatures to have the same right effect as autographs, it needs to be developed electronic signatures in the sense of the legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business, No. 55/209. An electronic signature is the only electronic signature equivalent to an autograph in terms of proper effect. So puts more of this material into place for change. The majority also contributes to other changes in the technical bill, not intended to have material influence. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the following changes, which are in nature so that after the word "-with" (-) with the "B" Team 2.gs" will be followed. and B-line 3. is added to the word "staped" in the form of an electronic signature to ensure that the right effect is equivalent to an autograph. What the bill does is that a collection of signatures on a list so that an offer can be legally offered and then agreed to be on the list, that the signature may be electronic. It's an addition to the situation as it is, but it can continue to be done by autograph. There is also the possibility that it can be done electronically. So it's an expansion of rights. In addition, in the bill, there are laws to be added in case such a terrible situation - and perhaps more uncertain when the bill was submitted and won - that the causes of disease could prevent people from choosing as we did in the last election. During the last summer, however, there was a gap, but it could not be achieved everywhere. This is to make sure that the arrangements that must be made so that people who cannot choose because they are ill during epidemic times can be helped to vote. There's also something that the bill fixes and adds to, i.e. Presure voters' rights. Under the work of Jón Þór Ólafsson, here, president of the Committee and Executive Director, and wk. The members of Ingi In Jónsson, Brassur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Gujonon S. Brjánsson, Hjálmar Bogi the Ostahman, Kolbeinn the Hafliðason of Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Óli Kárason Káðsson. Since the bill is so much at peace, I assume that it will be accepted. This bill has changed the election's approval of the General Assembly. At the same time, we're on a board of administration and monitoring committee working on an overall review of the terms of the election taking up elections for the General Assembly, Presidential elections, country elections, and national votes for one total law. Of course, this change, if it is legal here, will be equivalent to our bill with a new proposal to ensure that this directive will continue in the future and will be used in the next total elections, although the overall review will not be fully valid until later and generally not be used in this fall election. I just thank you for the work of the Committee. I don't have to say anything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u53	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law on home loans to consumers, no. 118/2016. The bill's on the roof. 1431 and No. 791. The bill suggests changes between 25 and 27. The law, both of which were legalized in 2016 and discussed national language devices. In particular, they discuss the sources of the Federal Bank to set rules designed to promote real estate stability. Twenty-fiveth. will be discussed with the bank's account to set maximum mortgage rates and 27 gs. deals with his authority to set rules that limit the total value of the mortgage or its payment load relative to the income. The source of 25. was new in 2017, when the Department of Economics published the rules on the maximum price rate of mortgages to consumers, but the warrant for the 27th paragraph. has not been new to date. The bill is suggested at 25. there is additional authority to provide a cut-off from the maximum price ratio in the rules due to loans which consume a certain percentage of total loans over a given period of time. This will allow loan agencies to extend more space than currently available and allow them to provide certain amounts of loans during the specified period of time set aside in the rules beyond the maximum limit. The bill's basic modification proposal is at the 27th paragraph. The law of the law, which means that the analysis will be made clearer so that there will be a set limit for the limitations involved. It is thus suggested that, instead of being open and without reference, the source will be limited in a way that the maximum total mortgage amount may be from five to nine times to nine times the annual income of consumers and that the maximum payment of mortgage payments can be received from a consumer's monthly provision. The provisional element refers to a continuing income that is derived from direct taxes and expenses. It is then suggested that there be an exception from the maximum total financial loan level and the maximum payment of mortgage loans due to loans which make up a percentage of total loans during a given period, as suggested to be added to 25. Finally, contracts on mortgages paid in connection with share loans are suggested to be excluded from the law's law on bond ratios and limitation to consumer incomes. Is this done because the lawgiver has already decided on the housing law that the average mortgage payments given to share loans may be of no more than 40% of the applicant's provision. Therefore, it is not the same need to have the possibility to limit the rules of their bets, as is the case with other mortgages to consumers. A respectable president. I believe that it is important to have authority to publish rules that can affect the public as far as the ones involved in this discussion are well set up in the law. Therefore, it is not intended to be distributed at this time. In this respect it can be said that in the bill there is a great tribulation on the authority to apply this intervention. However, it is also possible to wonder whether the lawgiver has allowed too much space to decide on these topics. But I have to let it go with me that the space left in the bill remains very bed and can be estimated within this period of need depending on the circumstances where it cannot be ruled out, although it is not being offered the bait of the bill, I would like to make it more specific. This is not done on the basis of the need for the alternative. But here we have a clear law on the warrants of the Federal Bank to set rules that limit the total financial value of loans and their payments. It can also be said that by making this change, there is an increase in the potential external limits on loan loan loans in terms of bonding and payment rates. I have, a respectable president, studied key elements of the bill, and I want it to follow right here at the end that now in Iceland, in particular, in response to housing services, we are in a somewhat delicate period of housing. I reiterate that I don't bring this bill in here because I think it's a special need to use the resources, but it can't be ruled out, as one notices that some researchers have written about, that the Navy sees the need to use any of the cautions, national eco-mails that are available to him. If this particular point was to be considered in this bill, I would think it would be a great improvement that the council had settled the matter and made it clearer. According to this, a respectable president, I recommend that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u54	Madam President. I may be able to use this opportunity to try to find out a few things about this matter. I need a little bit to understand why it's so late to come forward, why is it so late now, but also how it affects having. It sounds as if certain sources are being opened up that may have normal explanations. But I can't quickly figure out who will benefit from this and/or who is limited by it. I know this is not a very precise question, but the problem is that when I read about the occasion and the need for the law, it's full of words, but there's a very little context. It may be all very normal, but as the situation exists today, it is my experience that it will come in on a separate day from the normal council just at the end of the council. They're asking that the case be run through at high speed. That's what worries me all the time. If there is a proper explanation for this, it would be good to know: How did this come about? When Did It Get Here? What advice was given? How should this affect you? Because I don't get it right at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u55	A respectable president. I have every respect for these views. A senator, not least because it is a matter of acting on the program and late for this matter of Congress. I would like to try to respond by saying that the matter will be considered in the relations between the Ministry of finance and the Federal Bank. It is not a secret that we in the Ministry of Economic Affairs have been looking closely at economic developments, especially all the things that deal with the development of prices in the country and what underlying factors are causing pressure. As you look at the scene and see that the real estate market has been increasing above that and is one of the main forces behind increasing inflation, you cannot help but lean back and ask yourself, " What can be of benefit in this situation? ' And when you look over to the council on the other hand and the Council Bank on the other hand, of course you stop at things such as the law-enforcement machine. When they are further examined, it becomes evident that when this specific point of debt is settled, we feel that in the financial office we have given too much authority, even more than enough, the improvement may be called into question for a decision based on this warrant, that it could be determined by the National Bank that the proportion was somewhere between 05.91000%. Here is an attempt to frame this in so that the dressing is completely clear, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u56	President. I appreciate that answer, it'll help. I'm in a bit of trouble. This is turned, and I have no doubt that it will be much clearer when we take it up on a financial and business committee. V.E.G. A minister speaks of the high vaccination rate or the high prices we see in a real estate market. If you look at Western countries in general, Case-Shiller scale and similar, this trend is just more general and broad in the world. I can fully understand, though, that the tools to cope with intense and sudden increases need to be good. It goes on to tell me that I don't really know if any particular people are likely to be able to finance a mortgage or if this goes through, even will be easier. Maybe that's the first thing. Then there is the second point. At this point, the Minister said it was the highest. in his opening address that these tools would not be used. Is this really being done for the summer if it somehow got out of hand with them? Or how's the time frame? Id of e.g. if it didn't go through until maybe in the fall or even after the election, are there serious harm to it? And then perhaps the last question: Was this case at the Minister's Constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-20-99.u57	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm afraid to insist on whether the case was on the Constitution, but I don't think so. The question is, Who could be tolerant of this matter if they were to say it? I may be looking primarily at the 27th floor. and are pointing out that we are giving the Federal Bank access to open records to limit borrowing according to the provisional income so that only a certain percentage of donations per year will be paid. Today's source is extremely open. If we now press the box, we are preventing the Navy from going too far. It is therefore difficult to find victims in it other than the Sea Bank itself. But what's more important, and maybe I'm thinking about it is that I'm not quite sure that we could have left it so wide open for the Federal Bank, so that he has a choice to set boundaries in the range of 0151000%. If we wander this in the range of 20 to50%, as is done here - a very large frame, despite everything, and I refer to the report that on the international scale, it is believed that when the odds of debt in this context exceed 40%, there is a very serious risk - we are well above it. But if you ask: " How many people are there there today? There's something about it. There's something about some people having more than 40% share. It's probably for the committee to dig a little deeper into this. I'm gonna try to answer what happens if this bill isn't approved. The main damage is possible, and I'm just wondering it right here as a possibility, that it could be legally unsure of how to use the resource.
