ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u1	President would like to announce that at a meeting of the World Health Committee held earlier today, December 16, the Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson was elected the 1st vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u2	To answer, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Foreign and Development at Work, Tourism, Business and Culture, Social Affairs and Employment Ministers, Scientific, Industrial, and Prominence Ministers, and Internal Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u3	A respectable president. Recently Friðrik Jónsson, chairman of BHM, said that the local tax base was one of the largest employment errors in the Icelandic labour market, which actually inhibited a collective agreement. He simply said that it would be in the interests of the unions, professional drivers, state, and rural society to correct these errors. We know what we are doing here in rural areas, where they are assigned to solve, but the funds needed to accomplish those tasks are not loaded out. A community's wealth cannot fix this aggressor, as we know that has been formed. Although all of the rural communities were willing to negotiate a dresser's compensation, they simply don't have the space to do so. And good to mark, the biggest part of a community staff is women. This space, however, is determined here in this room and I want to discuss it with the highest level. Minister. The classes we're talking about are, as I mentioned earlier, so-called women's classes, and I want to know: What exactly has the government done to improve their interests? There is still no objection to the work of financial and economic ministers who were supposed to launch 2018 in order to keep up with the labour market partners and local representatives in order to ensure equality with the pay of different government professions. It doesn't interfere with that job. So I'd like to ask the highest. new employment secretary: What will he do to improve the situation of his community when it comes to collective contracts? This is a huge deal. How does he intend to improve the interests of women? How will he follow the council arrangement adopted by the council and directed to the government to improve the interests of women's classes? How will he follow it? And how will he react to the words of the chairman of BHM, the son of Friðrik Jónsson, regarding this mismanagement of a job market because of his troubled rural position?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir very much for the inquiry. It comes on a subject that, of course, is a huge subject, especially when we look at what is involved in the local tax bases and how the rural communities are funded and financed by the important social work they produce. It would be possible to give long talks about what arrangements we have in it, since the taxes are the same as they are. In some other countries, this is the way that treaties are more than unique tax collectors. This is a conversation that we may not have taken very seriously at home, but is something that might be interesting in the long run. Hv. A senator here asks about the women's classes, which, in my opinion, is very important to look to the moment when a bargain contract is made. We know that in recent years there has been a decrease in pay between the sexes in a more successful state, but even more in rural areas. But the big subject is the prominent women class, often in the ministry. There are teachers, nurses, orderlies, and so forth. Actually, the pay line is between these great classes and other classes with comparable education. But the gap in the pay is what we really need to correct. How will the one standing here improve the benefit of women's classes? I think it's the project of all of us, the workforce's workforce, to do this. But it has to look at the factors I've mentioned; these replacements that I think is the biggest case, that we have these great classes that especially need more -- that... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to act. There was little or nothing in the affairs of women's classes during the last term, there is a need to act. But I would like to ask here, because I have the highest. Minister: We did not hear anything in the council when it came to a monopoly on the fact that the poor could get a completely unsatisfactory December. Now, as we have seen, various inquiries are being sent to us, encouraging us. It is clear what the position of the government is. A social minister who was here himself yesterday -- we really don't know what his opinion is. What will he do? Is he going to vote by getting unscrupulous December supplies? I'm here for some discussion about the need for a new system change, that's not the point. That's what we want. But what are the messages now for disability? What's the message for the community? What will the government, and at the same time, do in this hall when we shall discuss this and vote? Will a social minister try to promote the complete repletion of December?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u6	V.E.G. President. I want to respond a little. A senator says nothing happened about women's classes. I think it was important during the last term that the workweek was shortened. Of course, a shifting arrangement involving the shortening of the work week is still a big matter, but this is good for women's classes as well as for others. To the microchip. We must remember that it is paid December and holiday remuneration for disability. What we're talking about here, however, is this one payment. We hear a lot of calls this year from a similar connection to Covid last year, and I understand those voices, and we're listening to them. Like me and the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics said here yesterday: The system needs to be improved, and it's not over. We still have a pandemic going on, and we all want Christmas to be a part of our society. Therefore, we will, of course, consider this in the affairs of the council, as I was at the highest level. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has said so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u7	Mr. President. Government spending continues to grow. Whether it's a good year or a bad economic situation, government spending is increasing and has continued in recent years. Much of this is done on vague, even unnecessary tasks to form in the long - lasting city line as the highest. It seems that a minister does not know what the government will cost in the long run. Or into the air, like in... [[Set up on: high - quality civil transportation.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u8	The Senator has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u9	Like in climate, where the main goal seems to be to spend as much money without explaining how they can benefit from it. At the same time, however, there is an opportunity for neglect, an opportunity to attack in economic investments, an opportunity to save. Yet, the government now showed a little effort by spending money to hire a local company to shorten a waiting list at the Land Hospital by financing 175 operations there. All of this will be relatively minor. The head of this institution or in this company, the Clinical, the Þorsteinsson, was interviewed several days ago and noted that there were, of course, other measures that would be urgent, and the state could save a considerable amount of money by using services in this company, especially joint replacement operations, which, of course, we have discussed several times during the council, the cost of sending patients to foreign countries into replacement operations rather than doing them in Iceland. That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is it possible for him to, now that we're still working on the budget, to put more money on saving by buying more services from health - care companies to shorten a waiting list at the Land Hospital, and to increase the efficiency of government funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u10	A respectable president. I'm happy to hear all this talk about government money, and I agree. A senator says that we need to control our spending development. Despite the fact that much more is being done in many places, I think we have been successful in controlling the budget. We can only see the breakdown of the budget that the priority for budgeting is where we would like to direct our funds. We are putting the best of our means into our health and social services, our insurance systems. Would it be possible to place more money on more money? Well, it's just a good suggestion, and you can't be against it. I agree that there are certain types of measures that we have in the national hospital that we should consider cutting off the national hospital. That's what I think I hear from a new advisor. Healthcare Minister who has been talking only on the last few days, i.e. that one of the things we need to do to maximise the performance and ability of the national hospital is to make sure that tasks that can be handled simpler elsewhere are not being directed. The party to handle these contracts is health insurance. There is now a law on health insurance that they do not prevent such agreements from being made. On the contrary. Such agreements are actually the direct function of health insurance, but they need to be financed. We also need to be much better at identifying the costs and comparing options we face. I think it's common and far too much in the government that we're just not able to distinguish numbers to make data-based decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u11	Mr. President. There is good reason to agree with the Supreme One. Minister. We have not been good enough to identify a real position, real savings, real gain from investments because it lacks data. They don't have a complete picture in the state, they don't have long-term vision. I hope to the highest. A minister now with considerable experience in his Ministry will consider this increasingly. But the question remains, although I think it's the highest. A minister has now made the long way of answering her: A minister prepared for this budget now to consider spending more money on saving the health system in a way that would stop sending patients to foreign homes, even three times more expensive than here? As Dr. Þorsteinsson mentioned in an interview: The only thing that comes back to the state when men are sent abroad is the airport tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u12	A respectable president. I mentioned earlier that there are Iceland's health insurance that's supposed to make these contracts. When asked if I would like to use myself to make adjustments in the budget now at the council to ensure that we can achieve better results, better management of funds, I can only say yes. If I'm going to find out during the conference treatment that there's a little bit of money at Medical Security to do this, I think we need to consider that. But quickly, it is quite simple. If health insurance is currently making contracts for action that can be done in a more inexpensive way, then health insurance is not fulfilling its role in managing the money, in line with the purpose of that institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u13	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister of finance told me that I was on top of the budget. Social and workforce minister making a proposal for Christmas bonus at 50,000 bucks. ...employment, tax and inadequacy, to the highest level. The secretary of finance would then consider. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs: Is he on the schedule to propose such a proposal for something so desperate and unique and older people who are now slaving and trying to obtain food an opportunity for holy Christmas? In answer to me, the highest said. Social Affairs that last year had certainly been one payment that came into existence because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but they would not have looked for a single payment this time. The Covid-19 pandemic is far from finished and is rapidly rising. Sick people, especially those with underlying diseases, are isolated from their homes and have no chance of going in a row after a meal, let alone receiving a meal home, for as these individuals have pointed out, the pension is sufficient for most people just for a week or ten days. Disturbance, anxiety, and up to that horror are symptoms of the worst and of any of those with children in their dreary situation. Indeed, the call for help has been sent by e - mails. Also, I have received phone calls from people who are about to give up on living in these dreary conditions. What's going to happen? Ministers to deal with these situations because they can't wait any longer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u14	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I view this as a twofold question, one of the larger forms and the overall activities involved in the micro-elderly pensioners we've discussed here, as shown in a government contract. The idea is to change the system, simplify it, make it more understandable, and make it more reasonable in such a way that those who cannot provide for themselves have higher resources. And at the same time, it will make it easier for those who can earn part of a living to get into the job market without having to make too much money. It's a huge project. I'm starting a meeting with stakeholders, stakeholders and stakeholders on these matters, hoping to start work as early as I can when it comes to these issues. There are some challenges I'm not going to face here because I want to respond to the other part of the question that turns towards monopolizes. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. First, I remind you again that at the beginning of the month, December supplementation and holiday supplementation were paid. But it's about possible monopolys which are connected to the Covid epidemic. I think it's quite fair to look also to see that since the system has not been improved, we can watch for such simple payment, and we all want here in our community to have a merry Christmas, give gifts, eat a good Christmas dinner, and so forth. So I say, as the Secretary of Economics and Economics said in the discussion yesterday and I too, we will naturally consider this in the Congress's affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but would like to reiterate one thing we haven't figured out in this context about this 50,000 k. ...employment,employment and inadequacy: Who would it do the best? Yes, people out in the country, people who can't get their food in a row, people who can't make their home and can't go out to get food, people who don't have a crown and we're leaving home right now for Christmas on land or isolated in Reykjavík, and we say, "Covid's finished. You got a Covid check last year. But that's not enough. I'll give you December's compensation. But a large group of these people will not be satisfied by December. They always forget, they don't want to tell. It goes down to zero. The only thing that returns to these people is 50,000 k., tax and impairments. It's not too much. When we put 800,900 million in the media, or 800,900, in turn, 1 billion in making changes, there must be the same amount for these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u16	V.E.G. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator is absolutely agreeing that they need to improve their best interests in the community, and I am convinced that we will have a good conversation and cooperation in the council. I am determined to try to do my very best so that we can improve the benefit of those who live in poverty in Iceland. Poverty is a lesion that we should not suffer in our society, and I know that we all agree that it is the project ahead of us to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u17	Mr. President. New data from OECD shows that married couples and couples of the same age who make their income between averages of pay and poor markets receive the worst childhood compensation in this country of all the Member States, which at the same time pay child care to married couples. Only nations with very poor well - being systems are worse than we are. It is indeed a disastrous outcome for Iceland, who claims that he wants to have a Norse welfare system and a standard that is competitive to the Norwegian nations. A union was doing this during the days of its newsletters. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister responded to the news of the case by saying that Iceland has high expenses for other family issues, especially in the management of high school and maternity schools, and that it is acceptable for child reforms. Of course, the evidence does not hold water, for the Norwegian nations have a good nursery and long, well - funded birthworm system but also a much better child - reform system. This is where when the lowest paid people work more to try to improve their children's interests, the rate of child damage disappears rapidly, starting with the lowest wage. It's the highest. Social and workforce minister will not agree that better child benefits for more people could be paid for or beyond collective agreements? Or is the highest. Minister agrees with the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics says that child care in this country is acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Children's financial benefits are now increasing, along with the lower and upper limit of the income sector. There's something we're doing right now, and then there's the same limit of decline. Whatever it is. A senator here asks me if I feel that we should do better in general if I understand why. A senator was right, for all the children's families. I believe that we should focus primarily on those with less than a hand. There we need to keep our eyes on the rights of children for a decent life. I understand the thought that all children have the same right to get compensation, but I'm thinking that we have to use our carts in a way that gives the most or more to those who have mentioned among our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u19	Mr. President. I understand. Minister right? Is he against the Norwegian child reform system and doesn't he think it's useful here for Icelandic children's families? In the United States, we've been talking about the lack of children's benefits starting only when we're on the average wage. I think it would be best to keep them anonymously. In Denmark, child reforms start at 1.3 billion. K. a month's pay, but not due to pay in the Norwegian states. The government Treaty speaks of improving the child - welfare system, but the opposite is shown in the financial bill, where the total amount remains unchanged from year to year and payments for the sake of children are reduced. So I ask the highest. A labour manager will be willing to work for the benefit of child reforms for more children's families on the counter as a contribution to the government in the future agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u20	V.E.G. President. Thanks again for the inquiry. I wholeheartedly agree that the system needs to include more people and that the declines are too steep. I believe, however, that we need them to be there so that we can achieve the result that those who have mentioned them can have more. Hv. A senator will ask me about the bargains ahead. I think it's too early for me to tell exactly which way the state's coming into this. We need to see how the debate between the labour market members develops before I comment on it exactly here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u21	President. I'd like to discuss two defects in the law on unemployment insurance and ask the highest possible question. Minister for them. To be secure, a person must be 18 years old and under 70 years of age. Consider, for example, a 16 - year - old who chooses not to go to high school but who goes to the job market for 12 months and works for 100% and earns, under law, the right to unemployment insurance, where insurance is paid from his salary. For some reason, the person loses his job after a year's work, and according to general unemployment insurance regulations, he should be entitled to pay, but he can't get anything out of his age limit. It's just a matter of distinctions due to age. The same can be said of people who work in their 70's and lose their job. Remuneration is paid on the individual's salary, but the same person is not entitled to improve. A bigger problem in this, then, is that of students who are divorced - that is not a direct defect but are simply chosen to separate them. Doesn't it either fix this discrimination or cancel the insurance fee from the salary of people who are under 18 and over 70 years of age, and perhaps also from the student's salary? Another defect is found in the health insurance income management rules, which include the salary of the busiest children's family less during the first six months of the recovery period. A person who does not reach the levels of income connections or minimum is not able to have an increase in the implementation of each child during the time of the validation period, only makes a 4% rise in the first six months, and then leaves no income binding, after 6%. Thus, the overall pay from the Labour Office is lower for the first six months of the recovery period if you have a child. There are, however, some of the legal issues causing this. And whether it was the purpose of the law or not when they were put, it's a little bit off, isn't it? So I want to ask the highest. Minister whether to fix this defect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u22	V.E.G. President. A detailed question, which is why. Senator, thank you very much for them. First, consider the question of discrimination for those under 18 or over 70 years of age. It is true that in the unemployment insurance law it is one of the laws required to be faithful at this age of 18◯69. However, those who are out of the way of these years, which is the case with the law, the other laws, and therefore there is not thought to be any discrimination. We can then discuss what's fair and what's unfair about such things, but I'm here saying that under child law parents should ensure child support, etc. and there is another system that will take over when people are older and older than 70 years. It's a full reexamination of the unemployment insurance law and, of course, I'm gonna put this senator's indications into that job. Regarding the other thing, where the senator asks if someone who does not meet the criteria of the income connection or the minimum will not have the same elevation with each child, I think there is a misunderstanding here. Senator. Those who are not entitled to income - related unemployment benefits have to wait six months before they have a right in 6%, and that is of basic non-employment benefits with each child, thus receiving 4% of basic non-employment with each child during the first six months. So it's not right for me. [[The president calls.]] The law - yes, the highest. Mr President, I'll just keep going later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u23	President. Yeah, it's a bit of complicated laws, and there's temporary regulations there and other things that play into and prolong this from three to six months and all sorts of complications that mark all of our improved systems. Now it's been, like, the highest. A minister says, making a complete review of these laws, as he is a labour minister. We had previously been with a child - care minister who, when it was first started with a full reevaluation of the law on children, was then Minister of Child Affairs because someone else started it. A total re-examination of the labour market law is beginning, and this is a labour service minister. But there should also be an overall review of the Social Security Act. We're not talking to Prime Minister. Is this an indication of the success of the highest level? Ministers, do we expect to get along with these total reexaminations of the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u24	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to give up answering that question as a question. A senator asked me here in the beginning. For those with only a right to a basic non-employment, 6% of the basic non-employment benefits will be added to each child from the day they start to get paid unemployment. However, it is not excluded that after the end of the income - related period some who have children, they will receive a higher payment if they are at that low salary but still higher than if they fall directly on basic nonemployment. Then there's a space, and I understand what it's all about. A senator's need to be looked to because he needs to look to some level of reasonableness. But this is how it is now, and then I have three seconds to answer what the Minister intends to achieve with the revision, and I guess I won't be waiting for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u25	Mr. President. A public assembly is and should be a seminar as well as a lawgiver. The number of winters has now been measured for 14 politics, but since then there has been a silence in nine of the 14 cases. It's been over a week since the circuit overseer showed up in a public talk. It's been two weeks since the last, and in fact, the only senator left green has expressed himself on a case of government at the council hall. Where are the directors? Did the government's covenant follow any silence? Where were directors e.g. yesterday when we talked about budget money and special Christmas supplements for disability? How do they feel about that? Will members of the council stand by the government's bill that does not expect such reforms or support the suggestion of a smaller section of microchip? [[The president calls.]] We don't know because we didn't want to be intimidated by a talk here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u26	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, who has to state that I miss hearing the political stand of the half council members. It's so special to stand here day after day and never hear anything about their stand on huge issues; financial or financial contributions, disparagement of the Board of Directors or other things. I wondered if they promised not to speak in December or if they might just be so busy because they're coming to Christmas. [[Investment: Investment.]] Even a what? The chairman of the budget board is not coming to discuss financial contributions. It's a bit of a special situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u27	A respectable president. I must deeply agree with those who came before. It's kind of amazing that we should be discussing the budget and various cases of the government here in the hall where there are only government opposers. I'm not surprised, I think it's just because the management are ashamed of these budgets, and they're too ashamed of themselves, and they can't come up and try to justify the level of 50,000. exchanges do not make sense to those who really need them. Try to justify it by doing this last year's Covid operation. Covid is on a bullshit mission today. We must realize that it is time for us to take our hands together and do something. We cannot always be rolling over our smaller section by saying, " We're going to get ahead of ourselves, and we're not going to talk about anything. '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u28	Mr. President. Last night and again today's program is on the agenda for the changed order of recruitment at Iceland's Management Board. This matter must be very thought - provoking, even from collapse, if it is thought - provoking, yet it is so little of substance. We know this will cost hundreds of millions. We know that this will delay a lot of the project, the task ahead of us, and we know that this will create some kind of reconciliation among the parties, i.e. ... inthe Government. That's all we know. But the 37 plus one members of the board, whether as ministers or as sitting members, here in the hall, must know something more than we do in the government position, or they would not concoct with this because among them, I think, members who really care about the Kingdom box. So I want them to participate in the discussions below to inform us about the issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u29	Mr. President. While it has been noted that the members of the council are completely absent in the discussions here, it should be said that certain ministers have been diligent in answering, to make the highest possible number. The prime minister of yesterday made conversation and conversation with a representative of the government there. I don't know if there could be any fear of the fact that members of the board don't suggest giving a speech because of the fear of being opposed because they are less controlled often than desirable when people are not feeling good at what is being spoken. But I just want to encourage the members of the board to come up here as much as possible so that there is some way in which the view of the backing of the government parties lies. Whether it's that fear of an answer that's causing this must come during the day, but I hope this will look for improvement from what's been.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u30	Mr. President. I come up here to try to help you with a meeting program because I realize that it may be difficult for a president to answer the questions raised here. But I have a theory, and if it's the highest. The president agrees with her: Could it not be simply that no one has told the members of the greater body what to say? They have not yet been informed of their position? We know how this government was established. It seemed to be all about what will be divided, and then new ministers were provided with a recipe for what to do, what to offer, what to think on different matters. And the highest. The ministers were likely delighted to be ministers, and they took note of their plans to carry out cases that they once opposed. Could it not be the problem, Mr. President, that it will simply explain to the members of the Commission what they should think and what they should say here in a speech chair?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u31	President. It looks like a lack of understanding of what needs to be done to change the culture around here. There, the president in my opinion is a great responsibility to negotiate the discussion, to negotiate the procedure of the council. A big part of it, because there's even more of it here, that's exactly what we're talking about. This is also important, since the council is given too few cases from this administrative body, from the government of this busier part, into the Senate hall, and too late. And they are repeatedly putting matters on the program with some unusualness and with no notice. Perhaps it is not surprising that members of the council do not participate in the discussion because they have hardly seen what the bill looks like. I'd like to ask the president how it would be if the president went to do his job only and negotiate with the administrations on how they can participate in a discussion here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u32	The president won't make a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u33	A respectable president. Here people are wondering why so few legislatures are coming up here in a speech chair to discuss such matters as increasing recruitment. One explanation might be that almost all members of the board are ministers. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] One in three, I'm counted, the Painter Man. That could be part of the explanation. But for the fun to go away, I think it's sobering, maybe not with members of the council left greener, but with the forwarding party and the Independence Party, where are the friends of the taxpayers in this government? Where are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u34	A respectable president. I thought it was interesting to hear it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson just told us how long it has been since the arrival of certain party members in a public assembly. It's kind of amazing to witness this. But I'd like to mention it to the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Financial ministers have been here to follow their own affairs and to have a word with members of the government opposition. As members of the government stand, we do not have the same access to Generals and Directors' committees, so communication in this hall, which is also vital for the public at home to observe and to the media, is of utmost importance. In last night's discussions where we were discussing the Council of Control, for example. These are strong and necessary changes to meet new challenges and to cope with new or changed assignments according to the needs of the times. Don't the directors really think about this? Don't those who are the most activationists in the Independence Party have an opinion about what this new Ministry should be like or those who are the biggest environmentalists in the VG? [[The president calls.]] This room is missing. It's not enough just to talk about it on the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u35	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a meeting, suggests that a conference can be held today, if necessary, beyond the norm of Congress. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? - Then there's a vote on the length of a council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u36	A respectable president. There was an informative discussion here last night about this case that raised a lot of questions and gave reasons for further reflection on the existing council doctrine proposal. It was interesting to learn that deforestation and land transplants are under the Food Department and Tourism Department. I'd like to call attention to the President's decision to switch the ministry of a minister who is this document. A number of advisers have been decided and there are 12. There are 12 ministers and the name of the Ministers. It is also the title of the advisers. The question is, what is the Ministry? Yes, there is a minister's office. And to make that statement as to what the name of a minister should be when it is decided on a presidency is very special, to say the least. I believe this synopsis proposal, referred to in Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, simply doesn't meet other articles. I'll tell you why. The reason? says, with permission of the president: ▪ Akvor, a number of advisers and their names should be taken by Presidential decision, cr. Section 15. The constitution, as suggested by the prime minister. The proposal shall be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym which is already under discussion and payment before the release of the Presidential decision. Here's where we'll discuss the third president's decision I was asking about yesterday. There are three first-sections to lead to changes in the order of schemers. The wording in this proposal for Congress is so that it is not a proposal for a court order, as the law assumes. 2.g. is absolutely clear that the proposal for a prime minister for a decision is the document to be placed before the General, not another document, to be absolutely clear. It is not to be the document that says that the Council deems, referred to in Article 2. the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, to support the proposed changes to the number and intensity of Council at the Iceland Management Board, which includes, etc., which includes the old title of the Council and replace with a certain number of other advisers. This is not in harmony with 2kret. The law, the noble President. What Prime Minister is supposed to offer is a proposal for the President of Iceland for the Presidential decision. It is the proposal to appear in the synonym. That is what 2 C.E. says. I'm afraid this council proposal doesn't match 2. Gr., so it's crystal clear. I have considered past examples, I know that it has been done before it does not change the proposal that Prime Minister should be the proposal he proposes for President to sign. It's the proposal to appear before the General, and it's not being done here. Making a proposal for a hearing, since the Council concludes to support a planned change, it is not a matter of deciding a number of schemes and their names. We have only five agencies listed in the Parliament's decree, which will be made up of seven problems. The entire list must come, the entire 12 Ministry, the number of all the advisers and the name of all 12 advisers. That's what's supposed to be in the Senate arrangement. I know it can be handled. This was clearly redundancy last time, but it was not consistent with the correct reading and wording of Article 2.g. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. I think it's quite material for the Ministry of Presidency to look at it. I don't think it's possible to request a memo from here, but it would be very interesting to see their legal interpretation in the form of this synony proposal to make it possible. Other than that, I have considered the subject, I did so yesterday in my previous speech - the Constitution is completely clear. In the 15th. says the president is a minister's ship, and he will grant them a release. He determined their numbers and divided them. It does not say that the Council should do so. It won't. But now, so I'm just taking the words down, we're supposed to set a change in the number of hot advisers. [[The president calls.]] I know it's 2. is there, and the law is there, and I believe it's 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland cannot pass the Constitution. These laws are absolute bastard, legal bastard who would need to be reviewed as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u37	A respectable president. It's nice to continue this discussion, which took all night too. That discussion was about a lot of things, and I thought it was a good idea. The prime minister was actively involved in the communication that took place. It's my experience that the board members are somehow quite uninterested in this matter, and I'm sorry about that. I think it's a huge matter how we divide up the Council when we face all these challenges spoken so beautifully, both in the Constitution and in everything else from the highest level. A government comes, which gives us the conviction that how we do things is very important. What I've been trying to criticize, mostly in this regard, is that we don't know anything about any evidence behind the fact that the problems faced are divided in the way suggested. I'm going, for example. to mention here, with the university, industrial and innovations department and a review of the report. It says here, by permission of the President: The establishment of the new Ministry of the University, Industrial, and Neons is a sign of the progressive policy of the government of these sectors. The aim of the new Ministry must be to see how things can be done better than before, how new things can be introduced, thus enabling both individuals and businesses to improve their own interests and prospects. A new Ministry is designed to support innovation's environment, where people enjoy creation, thrive, and grow in open, free society of innovations and competitions. You need to forgive, but I think this is somehow more like a year-to-year lecture than a paper in which there's a lack of logic and intelligence, and we members of Congress are convinced that it is good for us to vote by setting a vote for the Board of Directors for the next four years will be the same as in this report. I'm just calling for this. There's still plenty of time, both for the highest. Prime Ministers and legislators, to offer only this counsel to us in the council. Why should we vote with this? I'm not telling you that I do. I believe, as I described in the memory of the first talk, that the Council has to be flexible and dramatic, that a government at any given time can decide to place some emphasis on the first, and it somehow reflects a series of tasks between counseling and dividing them up. But there is just no such rationalization, let alone the cost analysis, in the report. That's what I want. I'm not telling you this is good. I just want to get the reason why we should go this way instead of anyone else. I still haven't had any explanation for that at the highest. Prime Minister, whether it was appropriate to send some questions into the Ministry, some called to the Ministry Department, some department managers, some council managers, to see if it would be appropriate to divide things in this way rather than to the others, simply because we know that while the three management are excellent employees, good intelligence, we all benefit from borrowing our judgment, especially when we are accepting such large things as those that are done in the Treaty and this replacement. So I would like to hear some interpretation of it, for example. whether they know the challenges they face in some departments within the council. This uncertainty about where it works is understandable, but the big question, of course, is this change in their progress to benefit? Is it really returning the efficiency spoken of so easily? Sadly, in this report, there is no lack of logic. I hope to the highest. Because this is a huge matter, the prime minister and members of the board are actively involved in this discussion. The whole world of Congress is behind the fact that we are to capture the opportunity of the fourth industrial revolution, as mentioned in the government covenant. There are all members of Congress behind it and ready to support our efforts to combat the climate. All of us are ready to do good work and are trying to do so. But we need to have some sort of conviction and some sort of hesitation that this particular procedure we're discussing in this Senate resolution, that there's something in behind them, that it's not just, with all due respect, something that sounds good on a year - to - year presentation but that is logical support, cost analysis, review, that there's no debate in the conference about whether it's appropriate to go this way rather than the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u38	A respectable president. When reading the Council's Conclusion and covering with it, you might think that these changes are made. These are the explanations that make it quite convincing, and you read them out of context with other factors known to you by the previous practices of this government and the circumstances of everyone. V.E.G. The prime minister mentioned in his speech yesterday's survey report of the Generals, as is done in a paper with the synonym. This study report, published following the study of the bank crash, was published in 2010. It has been 11 years. Now I don't know what smart adviser the government had where it was cookin' up for those fancy foam to justify this power exchange that has been laid here in order to ensure all its share in this government community business, but I have to admit that at first sight it just sounds pretty good. The report says, with the permission of the president: A planned increase in recruitment and a change in their vows is a final factor in major changes to Iceland's Management Board. It's not. On the contrary, this extensive change, with the permission of the president, was carried out in connection with the formation of a new government by the end of November / finally. That was two weeks ago. Obviously, these changes and moves may be primarily due to a group of predominant reasons. It has the highest. The minister of finance confirmed in his reply that he has been asked in a selection of counsellers and other related matters. Of course, it is serious that the government is acting in this way, shaking such things up in the administration, with the relative costs that no one knows who is, but hundreds of millions are likely to run, without obvious necessities. What makes this even more serious is that there is evidence that the division is by no means thought - out on the part of the government. This is not even determined by what agreements the Ministry has made with parties in a town where the work has been carried in part or in general. Therefore, it is not only the members of the Board of Directors who are unsure about each and every time if they are going to be at work following this marvelous plot by the executives of the governments. The big problem then, of course, is that we know how this government works, and this is, in my opinion, perhaps the most serious thing about all of this, because they operate contrary to the most beautiful reports in a paper with the Congress resolution. The position of the government parties is primarily about not meddling in things that are not their concern, which are the Ministry and the lawsuits that have been assigned to the so - called groups of cooperation: You take care of yours, I take care of mine. A paper with the proposal continues, with permission of the president: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. How should cooperation, as an example of the State Ministry, be promoted by a group that has the intention of doing everything within his power to prevent people from taking root in this country? How is it to work with a government agency whose policy is to ensure that the equipment and rights of the same people have been distributed to these two departments? Something I imagine that this cooperation will already be tense, unless the idea is to do exactly as it was done during the last term, by everyone not taking part in what is not his concern. V.E.G. In a recent presentation at Kjarval positions, the same theme as the report is: These changes reflect our emphasis and also our determination to have the Board of Directors work together as a joint. It is not enough that they are incompatible and inconsistent in policy matters, there are many things that raise suspicion that the ministers of this government simply do not talk together. Last night, in the discussion of the financial contributions that was carried out in this hall, the highest level came. Secretary of finance in the discussion of microchip action in the pursuit of Christmas and urged members of Congress who demanded to ask the highest question. A social minister, like him himself, had nothing to do with this. So it is clear that the switch is not in harmony with the ideals of these categories or policies, this new division. V.E.G. In his speech yesterday, Prime Minister said that the idea of having energy through environmental protection was born in the time of the left government when they established the Environment Ministry. If we give the Environment Minister at that time, in 2010, the highest. The current marine dignitary and agricultural minister, the Svaní Svavarsdóttir, has become in an article she wrote in September 2010, which is where she says, by permission of the president: To me, the research on resources and advice on how to use them is a fundamental factor in the nation's well-being. Thus, the report for these changes makes it clear that there is wisdom to explain and to follow, as it were. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson put it here yesterday. The interpretation proposal would be fine and wish it were in harmony with reality. The experience of this government, as well as their words and actions at this council so far, shows that it is not. This transitional scheme simply has nothing to do with cooperation, cross-cutting consultations, or mobility between recruitments. The purpose of this transition is simply to ensure all the governmental parties they demand from the results of the elections and the victories they enjoyed there. And this means spending up to a billion of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u39	Madam President. In my speech here last night, I reviewed a general view of the changing order of Council Council Council council and then took particular steps in the affairs of the environment, climate and energy in which I seem to be exposed to a particular setback in the seminary. I would like this brief second talk that I have during my discussion to focus on other issues, and that is the subject of the university. For example, when we received the government covenant, there were some sobering things that were not said and thought - provoking. For example, it was noteworthy that colleges were generally just mentioned in connection with their professional life, especially the food sector, just as students were not mentioned, although the introduction of students is one of the most recent university topics that have come in here during the last year. Now I will not belittle the need to build bridges between university and research and industrial and innovation. This connection between employment and innovation and college is a fine price - paying factor and promoting advancement in both professional and academic sectors. But this is the sound of a song that was sung in the educational community maybe ten years ago. Now people have just moved their university systems into other places. For example, there is not one word of a university education in a paper with the Constitution proposal, and after that extended education is separated from other aspects of education and entered into a section in which it is defined as job and social, as tools for dealing with technological change. They lack this sense of education because of knowledge, which should be the heart of a university career, in the sense of what is being said here. In this context, I would like to mention that shortly after a year's convention, the European Union is expected to publish its new programme on university affairs, and although that plan does not directly affect Iceland, the nature of it, because of the international community in which the university is moving, of course, it will affect the way the university operates. Mariya Gabriel, director of education in the European Union, has talked about three basics in this policy, which, though not all of it, is about how universitys have a role in protecting collective values, just the value of being Europeans, and that they do it by offering quality education, by making it clear that all are able to enjoy education, and to build up respect for democracy and academic freedom. This is your first team. The second, in turn, is how to promote the university to take the key role they have in the green and digital revolution that these days play. Third, the European Union's upcoming policy on university competitiveness, the way colleges become attractive partners for other universities for research cooperation and innovation. This may be the point at which the current Iceland government will be able to address the three that the European Union puts first but not as well as aims to make the European Union itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, Madam President, that in this violation of the Ministry of Education, the university will not be able to prosper as much as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for sitting here with us and sharing in our discussions yesterday. I wanted to try to trick her up a little bit. Now, according to the President's decision of November 28, children's affairs are disabled by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Ministers. Minister of Guðmundur Ingi Guðmundsson. Of course, it is sobering to think that this is the case with disabled children from the Ministry, which deals with children's issues in general. But let it lie, perhaps there are some reasonable explanations. The Presidential decision says that the consulting and diagnostic centre, formerly known as the Habitat and Advisory, will be addressed to the Ministry of Social Affairs, but according to the Congress Directive that we are here to address the Agency at the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, the Ministry of Education. Minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason. Then the question is, Which do we believe in the Presidential decision or in the Congress arrangement? You can understand this by saying that the Agency will be under the highest level. Minister Ásmundur Daðason Davidson now over the holidays, but then he moves to the highest. Ministers of Guðmundur Ingi Guðmundsson some time after the holidays A respectable president. This is a very important institution in which children with severe developmental disorders are received. It is an early intervention, defending the quality of life of these children for the future. Earlier this year, reports that during the fourth hundred children were on a waiting list at the Agency and that many of them had had to wait two years to get analysis and service. That's the situation. Children's manager has encouraged the Agency to get more funding for the waiting lists, but the government wants to work according to budgets and next year's budgets, which are naturally ironic to the Agency, to reduce the donations each year, 2022, 2023 and 2024. But, of course, it is serious to create uncertainty about what the Ministry is hearing. I'd appreciate it if I did. A prime minister may arise and answer the following two questions. Number one: under what department will counsel and diagnostics be heard? The management and diagnostic facilities will be below the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs or Supreme Minister. Minister of child care? Number two: Could you be able to use a fraction of the money that goes to the library to cancel the cutoff to the Agency and to work systematically against the children's waitings for needed service?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u41	A respectable president. It's a big deal we're discussing here, a review of the Council of Control, quite unexpectedly. I would like to immediate note that the government of each era has a measure of time and opportunity and certain tools to jump up to emphasize its emphasis, in order to get a rather successful case, which is to be made up of in the Treaty. After the success of a government covenant or a last term, I don't think that the government has considered its course and asked itself, " How can we achieve a better government, so that the political treaty has any effect and has any value but is not just a beautiful word on paper? ' So that's exactly what they say. Of course, it's a bit ironic that the only department that's pretty unmoved or added to is the Ministry of Directors. It's ironic, but it's true. All other ministers switch places, or the Ministry is counter-reflecting. I feel that when I read the report -- I kept all this time from elections, all this axis in the fine cabinet, that there would be more bits in the report, more vision, more solid in these other beautiful words, something that gave us a limp to believe that, yes, it would be successful for us as rulers to be efficient, transparent, understandable, and not least powerful. We learned it, and it's just been pulled out after the umbilical examination after the collapse, and it's even been said. In the Generals' research report, which we should carefully listen to, part of all this was that the Ministry and the management department were not equipped to meet the times we were then. There's nothing different today. We need to keep our ministry strong. We need to have the setting so that we can develop within the recruitment process knowledge, skill, efficiency, all of this required by our modern government. The truth is, it's best not to be completely successful. But I'd like to start with what I'm pretty happy with, and that's the change in the climate Ministry, the climate and energy Ministry. I have hoped that just this step will lead to something moving in that area, will become a real environmental protection, a real climate policy, for it has to say, as it is, that it does not necessarily depend on itself very quickly or much on that level, let alone the activation issues. There are natural issues that are completely unsolved between the parties, absolutely unsolved. It will be curious to see what it will be like, especially when this is now under one minister, Minister of Independence, who will probably follow a little bit after the way we go to the necessary activations for a longer and shorter time for energy exchanges. So I think it's a good thing. I also think there's a lot of positive things about the Department of International Residents, putting their authority in about the same place, adding. However, I could not understand why communication was being taken away. I haven't made it yet. I don't think it was a reasonable step because communication is part of the infrastructure and a complete approach. Then there is the other, and we have to say things like they are: It is, of course, ironic that the first step of the government, good and well, it is under the lead of the left green, in which the Independence Party sits, which should always be friend to the taxpayers, but it has already been shown and proved in recent years, that, quite frankly, it is not that the number of counsellers is growing, but the number of state employees, so that all that was said before; stableness, efficiency, the maintenance of business, is just blown out of the weather and wind. Of course it's ironic. Besides, I'm worried that the administrative arrangements aren't enough for this. We know that a part of the increase in budgets is that the left, despite some significant defeat, is reduced by 5%, one of the biggest losses in the elections was there, did not yield to one Ministry. That meant a problem. An advance was the winner of the election, and it was natural for her to have her, not just the head of the outside. One independent man told me that this is the time to create a mini-politan office for the president of the advance, but good and good, in many ways it can be understood. I stress that these changes are not unwise. But if left greens weren't shrinking, the Fourth Ministry had to be held, then all that cable started. That's the big trick about these little ones, and it's a pretty bad set-up of plots, which often needs to be, but this one's not to increase credibility in the government's next misbehaviour. Besides, it's ironic to listen to what I've heard from two members of the Independence Party that is now a serious system change. In other words, the first step the independent party takes is to increase the number of stewards, raising the cost of the State by hundreds of millions of dollars. That's an open checkbook. But when you're talking about e.g. unstealed Decembers for disability, a monopoly for disability now for Christmas, can't be done right away. You cannot expect to substantiate a psychological service and speak indiscriminately about the changes in the system of things to recognize a spiritual state, that it is equivalent to the physical. No, it's a system modification that can't be processed. Should we talk about the nation's resources, that they get a fair price for access to the resource, whether it's the electricity or the sea resources? It's a real system change. Or that we saw agrienvironmental policy that would be much greener, which would be released from the seas and superpowers from the middle, and bring modern prospects to the environment in behalf of consumers, in behalf of farmers? No, such changes are not on the agenda. No, real system changes to the Independence Party, at least Two of their ministers, and I heard it also among the new councils here, expanding the stall, increasing the number of councilmen. There are serious system changes in the mind of the Independence Party. A respectable president. I don't know if I'm supposed to laugh or cry about the transition between this great gang. But this is a fact. Then there's one more, and I hope the minister can review it better in his later speech, i.e. specific issues. For example: Is it true, and all evidence suggests, regarding the modern - day Strategies we have spent decades fighting for, that all the educational work, culture, research, and knowledge go under one roof in the most elegant Icelandic language, are they actually being severed in two ways? That one minister will direct the scientific work there, research, and sharing of knowledge, and another will then direct the protection of the fables and cultures, the core of what makes us Icelanders and is absolutely invaluable to us? I'm worried about this. I hope to the highest. A minister can convince me that it is a successful step after all these decades, to combine these activities with efficiency, cooperation, understanding, the use of knowledge in these fields and within the culture. I hope this transition does not reduce the importance of this operation, the enormously important operation that will exist in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. That's what worries me. I'd like it if a minister came into the Children's Office speech. It's totally unnatural to put the Children's Office of Education and Children's Affairs into the Ministry of Education, because the Ministers of the Ministry of Governments interfere with a project, because we simply have too little of a government agency, and then only the relatively small ones need to be fatten up. Children's manager must be neutral. In effect, he has to have the arm-spant to monitor the interests of children. I'm worried about this. I would have liked to see it continue at the Ministry of Presidency, or any other office, and I hope to the highest degree. Prime Minister, come on in. As I say, we will do very well over this proposal. I have to say, there's something really good in it that can be said, something else, but it's really worrying me. [[The president calls.]] It is not good when changes are influenced primarily by individuals and players, but not by the way we have identified, cleared things, turned them to our conclusions, and benefited us. [[The president calls.]] It is not to see in these changes, that is not to be seen in this synopsis or in its report. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the Senate committee to take this action and to do it better than has ever been.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u42	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u43	Madam President. I find the most important thing here, though it is that in all the countless changes here are going to be, there are some fine changes that can be found between, that there was no compelling need to go on this expedition, and I think we all work at this workplace. There was nothing special that called for taking the whole board just like a puzzle, throwing it up, and seeing where the pieces fell on the table, and then sorting things out. I have found something interesting and special, because there is no compelling need to use these eight weeks, from the fall election to the assembly in breaking up the Ministry, increasing the budget, increasing the number of counselors that was truly no need for land, without evidence that these changes serve the public's needs. It must apply to the Ministry, as to any other community institutions, that they are primarily responsible for doing their work well in behalf of the public, not the political parties that sit in it and that time. In this context, I think stability is important too. We talk about economic stability and political stability. These changes should be taken into account in February. We chose in September, and we take an adventurous long political discussion. A new government will begin in December. These changes should be taken into account in February, which means that this new model will be started on the spring. There will be an overwhelming loss of precious time within the plot. We know, if you just look at it from a change in control, that such great changes, which are presented and over without any consultation with the staff in the council department, will make it a big loss of work within the scheme. I'll stop at that point. Then it must be irresponsible to make changes, such as those at the highest. Secretary of finance has said that it will cost hundreds of millions of dollars. He is confident that he will say. However, no cost analysis is available, as is the fact that there is a need for analysis. In that case, it may be noted that the number is now higher than the first ones heard during the conversation. This must be irresponsible at times like this when we are dealing with the economic consequences of a pandemic that the State is handling public funds like this. And then, of course, you will consider that this government has, in fact, taken public funds to the point that a pandemic was becoming insurmountable. This was the treatment of the pre - pandemic taxpayers. In fact, even now when we are dealing with heavy economic consequences, that feast continues. I mentioned it earlier this afternoon at a Senate Hall and specifically directed my words to the Ministers and members of the House of Independence and District, when we were discussing how little was heard in the conference on this matter, whether it could really be that of these political groups, members of the two administrations, independent party and forwardees, there is no senator who trusts to take the conversation about whether it is responsible to work this way. To make that decision, without any particular need to increase the number of counsellors, that as few countries as Iceland have brought all this number of ministers, so that almost every third member of the board is a minister, I feel that it's very unusual, to say, not so strongly. Because it has come directly and indirectly in the references, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, this work includes. and because of the tremendous amount of time we had because of the count in the Northwestern district and all that it was being followed, we've been joking about it here, some anti-continents, that it is that the heads of the three administrations have sat in the minister's house and perhaps been bored to the point of blowing up the Council of Government and increasing the Ministers. At least I could understand a word of the highest. So at some point, prime minister that the time was simply so great that men made room for the ministry, pick them up, and multiply them. I miss it, and I haven't heard anything, not at the top. Prime Minister or Supreme Minister. Secretary of the budget, what the urgent need was. They have spoken of some undefined means of parishion, which changes in general can mean, and that is good. However, it is not that changing simply to change results will lead to better results. We can also see that there is a group of lawsuits that cannot be shared at all. One thing I think, for example. There is a special partnership between culture and tourism in one department. The key evidence for this separation is that there are two sectors of employment that both have suffered from a pandemic. No other connection. This argument is irrefutable that we will be living in a full term of disease prevention as a result is under way starting a ministry around those consequences. There are many of these things that draw attention. Children's Minister of Child Services, who does not have any of the tools at the Department of Social Affairs, has the elementary school, and he has the child business, but all the resources he spoke about during his last term remain in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Children's Minister is left behind with the title, if I understand it correctly, but without any tool to promote the politics he spoke for. I hope I'm wrong, but I haven't seen any sign of it. The big thing is the point I opened at; there was no urge for the public to go into this. This is enormously costly. We have some rough numbers as the highest. The minister of finance has mentioned in this context, and we can assume that this will cost more. We can assume that this will result in an adventurous loss of work in the plots, with all this rot and noise and uncertainty. Head elections, long political debates, changes to take effect in February - this will mean that the Ministry will be in slow motion until spring. That's the result. There is no special application tool in this case, though at its height. The prime minister says otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u44	Madam President. I would like to receive my second talk on this matter that focuses on the Board of Directors to bring the secondary effects of the matter into the council. Today, members of Parliament's committees have just been appointed, and this must be a result of the operation, in a way that is now established, that there will be a project transfer between members of the Parliament. If this has been identified in previous talks, I have missed it. But because of the highest. The prime minister sitting in the hall listening and listening, thanks to this, would be interesting to hear in which this matter has been continued, i.e. with regard to the organization of committees during the council During the last term, humanitarian cases were transferred to the welfare committee. With all due respect to the good people who served on a welfare committee, they were, in my opinion, very classy and somehow not particularly appreciated the introduction of workers to the welfare committee, which had enough to be taken from an environmental and transport committee and did so in connection with the transfer of projects between recruitments during the middle of the term period. So if it's the highest. At the end of this discussion, it would be interesting to learn in the highest ways that a prime minister, after an incident, answers. A minister sees to it that the effects are being overcome by the council and mentioned by the council because this is a matter of great importance. Of course, if there is such an opportunity, members of the council will choose to some degree members of the council based on interests and expertise. On the basis of the first, the small general members of the board of directors have participated in the debate here, and it seems to me that there seems to be just about nowhere to express themselves about this, I just didn't see a letter written by any non-president member of the House on these changes, whether the members of the administrations could have had any more information on how a task would take place in the committees than at the time of committees. In the work of committees, it is important not only that there is some interconnection but also that there is a complex relationship between tasks discussed by each committee. It's not necessary, but it's not the case, but everything involved in the work of a committee, a normal flow, and an understanding of the context of the parts will be much better if they always manage to keep matters in place. In this context, I would like to remind myself of my comments in my first speech yesterday, which gave me a lot of doubt about delivering communications from the Ministry of Environment and Transport, which is now going to be called the Office for the New Ministry of Science, Industrial, and New Creation. - Well, I'm learning that name at least. [[The point is, it's going so well.]] I just need 10 more days, that's it. I'm not at the top of it. To the President, it would be wise to add a note here in a piece where the names of the new advisers would be listed. This is what I just wanted to remind you, that there will be a review on the administrative and monitoring committee whether it is really wise to complete this matter in a way that the communications is moving. I would suggest that they remain in the old Department of Transport and the new Department of Transport, and you've taken those who sit in each chair out of the picture. I think it's a smart thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because he mentioned the interests of ministers at any given time: Does he believe that the Council of the Management Board of Iceland should be organized, not according to what is the most professional interest in the Ministry and the community? I'm saying I believe that the organization presented in the Presidential decision and this synonym is not transparent, and that there is greater confusion in the community with regard to the Board of Directors. Here's the Food Ministry. The old marine and agricultural department, for decades before, and more agencies that have been changed by the name -- that has come to the Department of Science, Industrial and Civilization, will be converted to the university, industrial, and innovation. The average Icelander knows that there is a sea - out minister in the country, agrienvironmental minister in the country, and so on, Minister of Justice. All these names are being resuscitated. A normal person who is not deeply involved in politics and not deeply involved in the political debate is completely confused, I think. I'd love to hear some thoughts. That's the case with a senator. It's very important that society's institutions, those guards in the management system, aren't changing signs at any given time. It confuses people, normal people. I'm confused myself. But I'm a lawyer, and I'm a senator, and I don't understand anything in this council-sense proposal, I have to say right now. I reiterate, as I said in my first speech, that I do not believe this to be equal to 2 gr. and I challenge all senators to read 2 st. how the Prime Minister should appear. It says that a number of advisers and their names should be decided by means of a presidency decision, as suggested by the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u46	Madam President. First of all about the ringland and how blurred these cases will be for a few hours: I completely agree. A senator on that subject. But I suspect that's what it is. A senator misheard -- it's not impossible for me to have offended myself, but I don't think - but when I was talking about the subject, I was talking about the commission, the council choice of members of Congress to sit on the council committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u47	Minister of interest, you spoke of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u48	- Then I've misjudged myself, I don't want the Council to be organized by a minister of interest, my God, that would be a very bad result. Just to make it clear, the organization must not be taking into account the interests of a minister. That would be ridiculous. My intention was to talk about the appointment of members in committees based on the design of projects in the committees today, but we may have seen that there would be lawsuits between committees to meet the changes proposed in this synonym, that was really what I wanted to come in and think I had done. I just want to agree with these views, which are about the ringer and the inexplicability. V.E.G. Yesterday, the prime minister mentioned that I was a conservative in these matters, and I'm sure it's possible. But I believe that, in controlled matters, there is value to itself, and I think that there is a very strong reason to put movement on lawsuits and even stronger evidence for as much change as we look forward to right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u49	A respectable president. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that it is very important to remain firm in the Board of Directors. If we're looking at the Board of Directors, each Ministry is actually just a minister's office. Everything is done on behalf of the minister - f.h.r. is in all letters. And the Ministry office is divided into sub offices, that's basic unit. I'd like to state that I'm very into that governments at any given time organise their Ministry as they would like to, but then they're to do it by reassigning the Office, the Council's core, the Council's advisory, under the Minister, not by picking unique matters out of the office and dividing them up. That's not the point. The offices are to be taken and brought under certain ministers. That's how it's done, and that's how it's formed. Each member of the board's staff is an office at the Ministry, an under office - but not to move employees back and forth in the Board on matters. I'd love to hear some thoughts. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u50	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have not thought this deeply, the way the senator describes in the possible office entry between recruitment practices. My first reaction is that I thought this was a sensible operation for some time within the Ministry. This, of course, is the holistic unit that handles certain lawsuits and that's where the Ministry's institutions build up. A regular discussion about the Ministry Department, after which some cases have taken place, or even after the events have not been held, takes place. We all know stories and jokes, so to speak, because the Ministry is going to be very homey in its own problems. You wonder, for example, " Would there be reason for me to do more in this regard? ' That's when the metropolis, like hell, lie down. A senator describes, in his local office. At the beginning of each terms, e.g. can be determined by lots by which department the Ministry conducted that terms. It would be considered that the Ministry office would become such a state in the state that would be inclined to wait off the minister if he did not agree with the Ministry General's main policy on some matters. I think it would be a very wise approach to watch the office modules, but not limited tasks within specific offices.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u51	Madam President. In many ways this has been a valuable discussion, despite the seeming failure of members of the greater part to participate in the discussion, which in itself suggests that it is. Well, I guess that's because of what. The members of the major part have no idea what's going on, have no idea where the government is going to make these changes. Actually, I'm not so sure, Madam President, that the government knows that either. It is becoming increasingly apparent how amazing this development was in many ways. It should have been simple. The government continued much and had declared that she wanted to continue working together. It took a week, even a month after, for a month, of a government interview that is very difficult to get angry about what was going on. After seeing the Treaty of this Government, its Constitution, and its budget, you can hardly reach a different conclusion, and, in fact, there's an amazing discrepancy between that, but it's primarily about how to divide the Ministers and ministers. Thus, this government work was originally established. It was the government of chairs and of leaving the system to control. But now, in the remake of the government work, after four years of which there are differences in opinion between these categories, these different categories - that they were before, they are no longer, they are more and less like one class - appeared in those four years, somehow they had to be buried or dissolved, and when they are mixed into the operation. You wonder how these long discussions took place. Had the prefects written a project on a note and then placed them on tickets to find out where to end it? Maybe not. Perhaps people were just thinking about it orally. As a result, the government does not now know for itself what the real operation will be like, and it has no idea what the cost will be. But he's going to be a big deal. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said he will study at least Hundreds of millions of dollars, and it will also be significant for the future, for we must realize that a system administration like this, when it attacks such a story, will not lead to savings. The system, the booth, will just grow. The matter will be solved, opinionated, by labor change, by increasing population size, by spending extra expenses. And the stall will grow and grow; for it will be proved by this government and did it during the last term that after its head dances the limbs. The Ministry of Presidency has never grown anything like what it did during its last term, an enormous increase in expenses to the Ministry of Presidency, an enormous increase in the number of employees. Of course, this gives the tone for another Ministry, and it clearly appeared to us in plans to build a concrete box behind the Great House, the Board of Government, a box that reminds us of the Council of Government, which was standing to construct the Bernite at the beginning of the 1970's, when Halldór Laxness wrote the famous article 'Subject of Reykjavík to protect the old houses and faces there. Now, this government is going to go back to time about half a century and finish these plans for a concrete-eyed box over the Board of Directors and put it in a small box behind the Board of Directors. The reason I mention it here is that it is so vivid to the way this government operates. It's a system administration. This lacks some new vision, even after months of discussion between the leaders on how to proceed. What's new in the Government Constitution? What shows that this government had to continue to offer some adjustments, something different, something new? Nothing. It's a government that's just about to move on to keep the chairs. So the main problem, as shown in this synonym that we address here, was how to exchange tasks between chairs. When time had passed by quickly, the leaders of the classes realized that they would no longer be asked to bring up a financial bill and call a council, this is all at once divided by men, apparently, still not knowing what it will look like, let alone the government's involvement in it. But all we had to do was finish these talks, so we were able to find that in the evidence of the government, the Congress, the declarations of government development, they are not even aware of what the Ministry is supposed to be. We are, for example. with the Minister of Education, or do we have a minister of education? Another thing after that, let alone a person's knowledge of his work. Of course, it may be useful to move to a project to improve integration, to improve economy. There may be a basis for this. For example, I don't think it's unusual that environmental and energy issues are in the same Ministry, Iceland. I'm surprised that the left movement has moved the energy situation into the Environment Ministry. Something would have been said if a government without a left member had done that. I think there would have been a scene out here in the East. But all right, V.G. was willing to let himself have one thing and another to stay on top of the government, including this. And in itself, nothing is going to be done, but people need to know how this is going to work, how to act. This, however, is another example of this change in the Council of Management, which was a big part of a cover, shape. I'm told, Madam President, I know, but that's not for good reason. The political affairs of this government are about overlaying, wrapping, not content, spinning about declared goals, labels, not real influences. And there were groups in the campaign that described the idea of establishing new climate services, such as the Ministry of climate, and that should be established by the head of the superintendent. Once again, it's about the labels and the packaging. They went into a campaign and said: " We're going to wrap these matters in this new package. So obviously it had to be completed in a government interview so that the Environment and Energy Ministry got the additional stamp or attachment to the climate Ministry, without our understanding how it would actually affect calling this climate Ministry. The same is true of the Department of Residents where the basic ingredients of today's present, telecommunications, are taken from the Ministry. It doesn't have a whole bridge, since we're talking about wood, Madam President, how it was planned. But that's because it wasn't about improving the system. This was not about improving the Council's arrangement. It was about the sanctimoniousness of the government parties and about getting away from it with the tasks they wanted to do and with the stamps they thought they needed, for it appeared in a hot solution which, as mentioned earlier, is actually quite vague yet. The only thing I can say about this, Madam President is that it's gonna cost a fortune. This will be complicated, this will delay the management and make it less efficient instead of making it more efficient, as such changes are usually to be done, and the government itself has no idea what is going to take place. So it will be interesting to observe the progress, with whether these labels, this package, in which the government has packed the Council of Government, will have a real effect. Mrs. President, what will be the real effect beyond a declared objective?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u52	A respectable president. I was here at the beginning of a discrepancy between the Presidential decision and the Senate arrangement we're discussing here. I asked if a diagnostic and counseling station, now known as the Advisor and Analysis Centre, should be represented by the Department of Social Affairs, or the Ministry of Education, and it's too difficult to discuss this matter in the absence of such a procedure, and when no member member of the board is involved in the discussion and we can't get an explanation. I know that the prime minister may have intended to answer this in his second speech, but then most of us will likely be giving talks, and we will not have a basis for properly evaluating this until we know, for example. This, under what department of the ministry this important agency should hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u53	Madam President. I agree with this tip and I ask you a question. Senator. Having a place of speech with those in charge and trying to get answers to our questions when there is no answer, and especially to a more objective discussion about what we are dealing with when the government council members are the only ones to address and are wondering about the others and these things. It is very normal for a senator to be able to enter the person to comment on the matter, but worse, waiting until the final talk comes up, for example, because the discussion is over. It is a question of whether or not we should assume that everyone will take off the rosary in an effort to obtain the highest power. The prime minister here to discuss the matter, and we can turn back, or how are we going to get this discussion so that we can figure out what we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u54	A respectable president. I want to agree with those who came before because, of course, this is a serious matter. I think it's only a black on the whites of every layer of disorder that this synoptic proposal is that there is some doubt as to which Minister should handle the matters of the Council and Analysis, it's ridiculous that we don't have any idea of it, and that we should have a pact proposal that doesn't answer it and a complete measure of the Councillords who don't speak. You don't understand this kind of discussion. I think the highest. The prime minister comes up here after me, so I hope we get some answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u55	Madam President. I planned, because a number of comments and questions and speculations have been made in the Senate case, giving a talk later in the day when I was going to review the matter. I can happily answer why. paritaprevir Therefore, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's case, for the children's affairs, both integrated services for the benefit of children, children's and family rooms, and thereby child - welfare issues, and a diagnostic and counseling centre, will be heard under the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs from February 1 through February. As mentioned in my speech yesterday, here is a proposal to make a resolution that will affect the Presidential decision to make changes. There's gonna be some specific issues going on in the last Pre-U.S. Presidential decision. I hope so. A senator can even express himself again if this explains the picture. However, the comments that have made me feel that it is better to review them in a complete speech rather than in a single minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u56	Madam President. It's a pleasure to see the highest. Prime Minister responds in such a way to a request to give an answer. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, though not already waiting for that to happen. You see, it was noteworthy to me that the minister was sitting very late last night, not only observing the discussion but also sharing in it by giving an answer to three members of the council. And even if the answers are only one or two minutes, they give the opportunity to make a much clearer exchange of ideas. One minister said that he would, to swerve all views at the end of the discussion. This should include a complete pack of five minutes. I'm just going to let me make a firm, that it hadn't been mentioned that there was a diagnostic and counseling station that, of course, needed a direct answer. [[The president calls.]] That was a direct question to the minister, and of course, it would have been best handled. A minister would have responded by answering the contrast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u57	A respectable president. It's good to have those answers. In some ways, you're glad it's like this. So that means the issue is at the top. The Minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason Dadsson who ran a campaign that was largely involved in children's affairs, XB for children, etc. I hope to the highest. The minister of Ásmundur Daðason Daledon will hit the table and fall from this canal, apparently on the drawing table when the Ministry was below the left green, these weeks from the time of the president's decision. I'm just hoping that now there will be a fall from this dreary trend that is being proclaimed in the highest budget. Secretary of finance, where we see a decrease in the number of disabled children, where we can see, for example. to offer a lower budget for this institution that I've discussed here, state diagnostics and counsellors, every year of this terms. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u58	A respectable president. We're here on a proposal for a hearing of a change in recruitment plans in the Iceland Board of Directors and a new Ministry, as the puts it, has the right to the President's permission: The Department of Social Affairs, College, Industrial and Development, Department of Internal Affairs, Food Ministry, Culture and Business Ministry, Education and Children's Ministry, and Environment, Energy and Climate Ministry. Based on the discussion that has been conducted on this council resolution, many bells and especially the alarm bell that we are dealing with a political arrangement that may even conflict with the law. If there is no doubt about it, it is absolutely serious that we should make this suggestion for a discussion. However, what we have noted earlier may be the good thing about the proposal, that the Council and Analysis Centre, which plays a very important role, should be at the highest level. Minister of Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason. I'm still worried because the list of waitings is the longest, just since spring when I got a report on the waiting list for Covid. It stated that the list of waitings doubled in one year. I'm afraid that since spring they've grown even longer. Of course, it is a serious matter when we have a station in which children are being assigned to help, and particularly for study, that we have a system that allows children to wait for service, not for weeks, not for months, years, but even for two, three years. You know a service in which parents are told that their children will not be able to find out until after three years. We know the consequences. We don't have to talk about them. But I'm going to discuss it again because it tells itself that if you tell a child who's six years old, he'll have a diagnosis in three years, it's nine years old. I say, where is this child's schooling? We know the consequences if children are in a situation where they are in danger of being harassed and cast out of society. Hence, it is incomprehensible that we should have more than hundreds of children on a waiting list for such a self - righteous service. Something's wrong. There's something wrong with a system that offers it. At the same time as they say they even need money into the system to deal with this, we have a bill that seems to be some nickname bill to add one minister and an unpublished vector at what it costs. That is said to be hundreds of millions, half a billion, but could it go into a billion? I don't think anybody knows, because no one can answer what this is going to cost us, and they're going to cost us how much it's going to cost when all this ministry is going to be created, and then they're going to move to people, and then they're going to get everything going to work, so they're going to work really. And let's put these hundreds of millions of people who are supposed to put this into context, that at the same time, we've been fighting with our mouths and getting them for 50,000 bucks. ...employment, taxation and inadequacies, for the worst. It's just that they say there's no money for it. But there's an unpublished vector for this. It's easy to find money. As I have also noted, there is no problem with finding several hundred million for the private media of state strength. It's amazing. And then the big elephant, RUSV, they only get hundreds of millions, 400 million. No problem, enough. In fact, they get extra insurance. But a cripple? They'll get it after. After they've been given 3.6%, they'll have 0.8 percent to cover it afterwards. And 1%, don't forget, which is as much as this and less than what's supposed to be going on in the press, statehood, and personal driving. Where are we going to stop? Why don't we just strengthen our own personal energy? What's the difference? It's a personal skill because it's supposed to be a personal exercise, not a government scholarship. Sometimes you can wonder how things happen. Pálsson's tombstone wrote an article called, by permission of presidents, ΔHangi and Colleges. He asks the simple question, " How are those who smoke meat in the business of college and science? ' I don't know. I was thinking that maybe the thought behind it would be to investigate the procrastination of scientific meat to figure out how bad it is. I also ask myself the same question as he did: How on earth is this supposed to go together? Of course, that college has to do with foods that smoke meat is amazing. As he also points out, a study of medical science in the Ministry of Industrial Affairs is not part of the study of meat. One might ask himself, " How is this possible? ' Is this true? And if this is true, it's a serious matter. With the permission of a president, I'm going to quote this article in Þorsteinn's article, which he says: A growing 20 percent and an increase in Ministers by 10 percent are the most ordered global changes. That's the biggest ideal thing that ever happened. After a direct turn of events, the number of mental - health hospitals dropped by 10 percent. The priority order is not even kept secret. The Icelandic state now needs 12 ministers, which is German sixteen,◯ How many of us are there? We can't make 400,000. How many Germans are there? If they need 16 ministers, we don't need nearly as many ministers as Santa Claus are. I think it's clear that it shouldn't be. I see it's going well on time. I ask myself, as I did at the outset: " If this council-like motion is so mean, isn't it time to pull it back and simply bring it back? Of course, we can just rip this off, not out of disrespect, but only out of common sense, and bring a new council proposal that would be understandable, no doubt there would be law and we would have exactly the cost, which should be mandatory, and I don't understand how it can be done, so it wouldn't be a question of how much this cost. That would be common sense, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u59	Madam President. We're discussing a matter here of the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Board of Management. Of course, this is a very large and vast case, contrary to what might be expected of the document we have in front of us. On the contrary, what's special about this case is that, contrary to the Ministry of Education, most of the cases presented by the Ministers are contrary to litigations. That's the essence of this matter. This often means that it is already the highest. Ministers come up here and plead their case, they're their issue, they're their core, and it's not in itself to check that other ministers do not necessarily come into discussion and even represent themselves completely neutral or probable in the case until there is a vote. It's more peculiar, certainly, in the case of a member of the council who shows himself uninterested in the matter, at least if it is their presence or absence here in the discussion. So this case is said to be the case, in spite of being what it is, a proposal for a changed order of counsel in the Council and reaching the top of the Council, there is one person here who has recommended it, and it is the highest. Prime Minister. I thank her for sitting here in the audience listening even though I had, with all due respect for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, in effect, wanted to replace her with some member of the council who would participate in the discussion if needed to divide them, preferably both because we need to discuss this matter. It's a big, big deal. It's a very peculiar thing, and I think it's a sin that no 38 senators - and when I take the Ministers from and from the highest. Then there are 25 members of the council who must support the matter, that is, out of the House of Congress - come here and discuss their support for us. I miss the conversation because I know that many things here are happening according to this proposal, and I'm not talking about this non-published check that goes with it, an unfilled check of state funds alone, are all sorts of structural changes that so far have not necessarily been the core of the case of individual administrations and, much less, individual bodies. But now this is their undisputed case during this first year's renovated management work, and I simply miss the conversation. What is the basis for this? And I'm just gonna say it right out to the screaming absences of anyone but the highest. Today, the prime minister says that this is a matter that people recoil at. This is not a case of supreme importance. Prime Minister sits alone in his arms, I just can't imagine. There are groups in this partnership that have talked about a legal body of government. This class has spoken of more than it has done, showing the natural evolution of state spending during the years that this fine category, the Independence Party, has been at the helm. Still, people talk like that. Where are they senators? The media has also spoken in this way, and what is the opinion of his members of Parliament? Is it a deep opinion that this is an important first step after the experience of the first four years, that this is what it takes to move Iceland forward? Actually, I don't think so. I think we're talking here like a lot of guys. Generals have adopted this option here at the Senate Hall because it's all we have, that it's a guess, that this is the result of some sort of contract between the parties when it had to be reassigned after the election. It is packed in a package that, by permission of the President, contains a major shift to Iceland's Management Board, which was presented in connection with the formation of a new government by the end of November. If this is the final subject, Madam President, I have missed all the intermediary details in this case, and I believe more people have done it based on how weak the Ministers were, under the silence of the council officials, and compared to the reports coming from within the councils on how unprepared workers there are there. It is expected that this will take an enormous amount of time to experience in addition to the human cost that has already been hit, which are some careless few hundred million people, to witness in the highest degree. Secretary of finance, and it's also costly. Now it's not that I'm against change, certainly not. But I'm so anticipated about change, and I think we're the most. I also object to the fact that these things are made up of some kind of change in power. It's a little bit of a sensation. That feeling is bad, and it doesn't matter if you're in a position of government or control here at the council, it's bad to have it, and it's especially why I have at least one. Ask for an explanation from the Generals for the positive aspects of this matter. The proposal indicates that there is a positive advantage in increasing the flexibility of the management system. Increased cooperation and cooperation are positive, and increasing policy support is positive. You're absolutely right. But this is nothing you do by breaking down one department and building up another. It's not that. Then you'll just break down walls and build them elsewhere and move them. It's a root in the past, and then everything gets stuck in the same world. However, increasing cooperation between existing recruitment agents, whether it is the current Ministry or some kind of change, is the real flexibility, and that is the real strategy that I completely agree on as yet is called. Then, of course, there is the other, and there is an increase in ministers. We are not growing as a nation that there is a rapid increase in the number of recruitment groups by one or two each time political parties have to agree on government cooperation. Surely we can find other ways to do so. There are an enormous number of questions that arise. The one most urgent today, and this may be sacred because we are at the same time discussing budgets and funds, is the cost of doing so. Then I'm not saying how much this will cost in the amount of money it costs, but the cost beyond what we get, because it's unclear. I'm going to let me stand here and tell you that I don't think it's worth taking on the Icelandic nation that some members of the constitution are happy because they got new ministers. It's just not what we're supposed to be talking about here. The cost is unclear. Then, on the other hand, the projects are said to be most clearly, and I really miss a lot of discussion about what it is we're supposed to get out of this. I have to tell you, Madam President, when this is all taken up and I've listened to the conversation here and the silence, she kind of tells me more, it kind of reminds me of people in a relationship that has become a little tired of each other and what was initially sweet and nice is getting a bit tired, beginning to get irritated. It's a real tiredness, it's a failure. But there's love, there's something there, and something has to be done to prolong the relationship. In dealing with individuals, there are times when there will be a child, and I'm so glad to say, I'm just gonna say it right here and now, that the political parties are left green and forward, and the independent party can't have a baby together. [[The president calls.]] But the suggestion we have here is somehow that way, it's the feeling. [[The president calls.]] That's not necessarily a word. The prime minister for this matter, which indicates this, rather than screaming the silence of all the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u60	I want to pray. Councilmen to respect the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u61	Madam President. Here we stand to complain of the poor government practices of reorganizing the Board of Directors. When it comes to securing your own power, income, and seating, the government is ready to write an unpublished check for expenses. At the same time, the government releases death from the shell, and patients live on tunnels and storage tanks. When it comes to ensuring that Iceland is a prosperous society, a concept that the government itself chose to use in its government covenant, the prosperity seems more precarious. Minister and their power. The cost associated with these changes runs to hundreds of millions and even a billion. It's close to the coin the government has proposed to provide as a reduced Christmas payment for disability, an operation at the highest level. Secretary of finance says it's at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs, which then points to the council, despite the fact that the council is asking a minister for answers. Now we're discussing a case that's most relevant. The prime minister who has honored the council is here under discussion about her proposal. As head of the two highest. Ministers who point to each other, I would like to challenge the highest. The prime minister has to counter the question, Will the prime minister act in a humanitarian way and ensure this payment, despite the fact that we have made that suggestion at the government position? But what is the real reason why we are dealing with the reorganization of the Council? We who are old enough to remember the hilarious British comedy Yes, Minister and Yes, Prime Minister, and it's a question of whether the tradition of government officials in the organization may have been allowed to operate in Iceland for far too long. That's what we wondered about. We also hear that efficiency and working across the Ministry is being talked about, but there is nothing in a paper with the Senate resolution that shows that it is working across the Ministry unless it comes to things such as equality and human rights that are falling under the top limit. Prime Minister. Then we can watch how it's being done. Yes, the decision was first made that there would be many ministers, and it was then taken to prepare some group of projects that each of these ministers could gain. There's one fundamental principle in implementing a reorganization process, because the purpose and strategia that are expected to achieve and then design the reorganization around it are to be examined. No, it wasn't. Rather, it was in the strategia explanation that could be exerted on why each power chair came into existence. The reorganization presented here also violates another principle of good reorganization. It is to activate those affected. In order to achieve good reorganization, it is most successful to get the views of those next to it, not the viewpoint of any of the governmental groups that are, in fact, not linked at all to the ministry they are uplifting, but to know them only by their deliberations. Yeah, you see, it's best to get people from the beginning in the reorganization process, to come up with ideas, to react to the changes you're seeing, and they know where things are going. However, the self - appointed reorganized triars held the cards so long that even the coallike ones who became ministers did not even know what they were doing and are still scratching themselves over what they are supposed to be doing. I don't expect to be the highest. Prime Minister is very attentive to the comments and ideas we have discussed in the political stand here. But it is my hope that the next time you go to reorganization that, according to the word of the highest. A financial minister who has grown tired of making money, could be in about two years, might draw a little lesson from this restructuring process and improving his work. Yes, we're going to go along with this ill thinking system change, a change so badly thought that some of the Ministry would name a few different names in the Senate resolution, a change that will cost more than the monopolitans, a change that will cost more than the amount that would have been enough to shorten the list of requests for mental health care and a change that only ensures continued cooperation of the more powerful politicians who are willing to sacrifice everything for their chairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u62	A respectable president. As of this moment, it is announced that the commander's office is in a pita. Not necessarily so, since in this case I thought that the prime minister himself who worked on this matter along with his three presidents was best for it, and that's a good thing. I've been over it and I've been listening to some talks in my section, which is just fine. It's a couple of adjustments, and they get us all on it, and I think it's fine if we're talking about it back and forth until we get the case on the committee and get some reactions, both from sources of information and just as if we can discuss it on our own. I've been over this over and over again, and it's naturally with us directors that we're like this outside the Minister's House, except for the Board of Directors, and we're sitting here at the council, and we're getting this right now just a few days ago, so we don't have all the answers. But it seems to me, when I cross this, that it's not as awesome as some people think. No mountains or anything like that are being carried. It is just a change that may have been needed. We haven't changed the Board of Directors or the Council for ten years, and we need to realize that the way the Ministry is assigned is not a piece of stone. It must have to take into account how the nation is composed, what the land is like, and we must admit that much has changed over the last two years. Things have really changed, not just here, but in the whole world. Why should we not reexamine? It's like it's something that's been done for the first time here for decades or just for the first time, but it's not at all. This is done after almost every election in Denmark and the countries around us, so I don't think there's any reason to go over this. When a man reviews the motion, there are at least five different agencies that don't change, which are the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Presidency, even though there may be a number of lawsuits. For example, in the Treaty of the Government Treaty, the main focus is that of the Treaty. Based on climate change, we need to meet it, energy exchange, green investments. And when I read the board of directors and then I review this synopsis proposal, it seems to me that it harmonizes completely with it. Someone has talked about the cost. Yes, it is expensive, and it can always be said that it has to be justified. We're adding one minister, and we're adding a couple more problems. V.E.G. Last night, the prime minister answered that this would cost about 450 million. Someone has also talked about this as uncomfortable for the employees sitting in the council, that they don't know where to come the next day, and so on. In a sense, it can be said in part. But when you're a ministry employee, there can always be some changes, e.g. every election. Is it all possible that while the same government will last for two terms, it will still be the same? Can we also criticize the fact that ministers stick further and sink in their chairs? And we can honestly say about the organization that was during the first term that you felt that there were several issues that were overlapd and that there was not enough conversation between advisers. It's supposed to be better. I'd like to mention a few things here, and there's a lot of things here, I can quite accept, what you scratch in your head, and I can't answer for, or say, or say, or say, but it seems like a whole thing to me it's very, in the spirit of what the government's saying about. I mention, for example. The Food Ministry. I am very pleased with this change, that it is being stressed to that party. Yes, we are a food nation, and for us to make the best use of our resources to produce food, we need to focus on these factors. During the past term, we set up a food policy that goes up until 2030, and it discusses both the challenges and the opportunities for the next ten years for food production. What's transferred into this department is the forest industry and the land transplant. This has to do with agriculture. You never understood why it wasn't there. The general use of land should, of course, be subject to this Ministry. Other than that, there's not much to change. Then there's the Ministry of Education and Child Services. During the early term, large - scale changes in the legal environment in children's affairs were undertaken, guided by their success. Naturally, then, this transition in the Ministry. I just think it's very normal. If we are to implement this project and do our full - time work, we must adapt to it. We can ask for progress only if this implies. We are going to add services to our children by removing system-based obstacles and creating a whole group of compromises. That's where we're putting our arms around this party with the changes we made during our last term. Environmental, energy and climate services: The context of energy and climate is obvious, and although it's called something else, it doesn't have to taste differently. I think maybe it's a little louder that it's been, like, what's happened. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnuldótttir said earlier, taking a puzzle, and throwing it into the air, and then reorganizing it. That's a little bit more, but certainly a new picture appeared. But if we are going to do something about climate change and are really involved in the work of a nation, we must focus on the solutions we have for it. Therefore, we must look at this context, the energy and the resources we have, the environment and the climate - they all agree with this. There was one thing I was going to mention, too. In this regard, the Department of Reservation states: ◯The transition aims to ensure better coordination with rural society, increase housing stability, and the integration of transport, housing, and planning and planning programmes, to ensure transportation can be done in the context and climate. We talked a lot about infrastructure and that we had to trust the wood we had in the country. It's just building a more solid foundation for that lawsuit. A brain of these changes, I feel, as I said earlier, is in harmony with the government's new government contract, and with all my heart, I can back up this council resolution. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u63	Madam President. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir Halla'm so sorry for coming up here and participating in the conversation with us. In the first round, I'd like to ask, because I cut at the moment. A senator reviews these key changes and agrees with them and mentioned that it is also critical in a new administrative endeavor not to change anything, could even be criticized if she could still agree that the heavens and the sea are between not doing anything and going into these great changes. I admit I've missed the cost, in the case of the highest. Government minister, from 200 million to 450. Then you can assume that it will hold high into a billion, such as the Icelandic calculus and the Icelandic reality. But this is not a responsibility. Senator. I'm wondering, simply because the Senator comes in to see that even though the senators have agreed to the matter from the council that at that time they didn't have much longer than we here at the government stand to see if she really feels this was a good idea. It has now been five years in the cooperation of these three groups. There is an experience, long before elections had come forward for continued cooperation, and you should have assumed that it would then have been sliding in the hands of the leaders of the groups how to do this, but it seems that the terms did not seem to have worked, not the two months when we were under the cover of the north-western sanctuaries, and hardly the time since then. If it hadn't been better to win this, I'd throw that heavy question to a why. A senator I thank again for coming here for the conversation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I understood, the senator was talking about a short time setting up for these changes. The members of a government group have been working together for four years, and I don't think the time was a probationary period for these changes that had to be made during the last term. It was a testing period on which they built this project. These suggestions must have come through these four years, that this would have to be adjusted to make it more efficient. It's the feeling I get, although it hasn't always been discussed somewhere suspicious, but it happens when they sit down again. Like what? In his first talk, a senator said, they had worked together for a long time, and he likened it to a marriage. That's right. If you are going to stay in a relationship, whether married or working together, you need to sit down from time to time and ask: Is it right to continue on the same basis? Is it better to start over or to clean up even in the upper cabinets or to continue with something? I think this decision was based on the experience of those four years, and I trust it was for our own good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u65	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I'd like to focus on the fact that the only non-compliance of the Ministry of Education that seems to have no change necessary to make is the Ministry of Health. The situation is much better reported on during the last terms, and it continues to fanciful over them because what is presented in the government financial conference is, for example, a government policy. criticize the failure to respond to the huge work ahead of us and to relate to the aging of the people. Maybe there would've been. Power, in all of this innuendo, attention to today's demands and also to future demands. I'm asking. Yeah. A member of Congress: Is this in the opinion of the directors enough to respond to the challenge we face in health matters and in our health - care environment? Is that enough, in view of all the changes we are going through the whole governance system in other respects just changing ministers?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u66	A respectable president. Thanks again for the counter-reguage. It is now a huge change to switch the Minister, but I am not going to lean on the minister who arranged for it. As regards the Ministry itself, there is only one sentence: the current health care department will remain in the order of counsel at Iceland's Management Board. It says the weight will be high for the next year. Perhaps it was sensitive that it could not be jumped up more or otherwise than changing ministers. Hv. A senator named the people's aging, and I think that in the Treaty, this is a little under way, and I trust that a new health minister is working on the lines put there. I trust that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u67	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and to address this discussion. It's respectable. I'd like to begin with this very specific point that I've mentioned in both of my speeches on the matter, and I'd like to reverse the transfer of communications from the Department of Transport, to which the Ministry of Transport, to which the Ministry of Transport, has to be thought - now a man of science, industrial, and innovation. [[Up front.]] Was it true, though? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It'll come. It'll be here one day. I'd like to, in the light of the night. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir arrives from the west, where the radio talk has been in the long chapters what began in Iceland's parts, asking whether. A senator believes that this is an improvement. Now, the evidence for transfering communications to this new Ministry is that they need to connect in such a great way that innovation and other future problems can exist. On the contrary, I find communication to be an obvious part of the basic infrastructure of the nation whose home was much better in the new industrial Ministry. But the question is why. The senator's opinion is: Does this particular point seem well thought - thought - out? Or does the senator even think it would be wise for the Commission and monitoring committee, which will address the matter, to suggest that this party be continued at the head of the council for which it is a member of Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u68	A respectable president. To be commended, I have to say that by speaking so well and long in this matter, they have come, I believe, beyond our council members, in learning the vows of the crisis. Thanks for the answer. Hv. A senator mentions the radio. I have to admit that I don't have the evidence I can use here in a speech chair for the performance of this category, although I trust a new minister for the seminary as well as my chairman, as I believe she may be able to seek advice if there is any need for it. The interpretation proposal comes to mind. The administration and monitoring committee I'm in, so it's gonna be one of the cases I'm gonna ask a little about. I don't have the answers or a complete opinion of them until I've studied them. It's just the way it is, and I'll quite admit it. But I trust the highest. A minister to care for this class as well as she has done in other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u69	Madam President. Thanks for the answer. Of course, no criticism of jobs is the highest. Minister, Áslakjar Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, these are my words, not so. But it is stated in the report by permission of the president: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. In this context, I would like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Has it been the experience of executives during the past term that collaboration of employment is so weak that it will have to act directly in planning to destroy the invisible walls of civilization and contribute to cooperation, consultation, and coordination within the board of directors? Then you must ask: Why wasn't it done during the first part of the last terms? Such a situation should not have been hidden from anyone who was a general member of the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't think that the cooperation or cooperation between recruitments has been so weak during the last term, but I believe that by transfer of various categories of agreements, they have better places to live in, such as. to the forestry and land healing into the Department of Agriculture, or Food Ministry, would be a better perspective and attention to the subject as a whole. This may refer to more ministry and other lawsuits. When they are being brought into the midst of wards or lawsuits, hopefully the staff with both experience and knowledge of this is included in consulting them. I think it's very normal and just for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and welcomes her to the management board during the discussion. It's been found to be the night. A senator might think it's rather unfortunate, if I've understood why. A senator has the right to transfer communications, and I agree with that. I believe the infrastructure should have all stayed in the Department of Welfare. I'd like to ask you what. A senator for the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry, and I take my heart to it. A senator, we share the opinion that there is a huge amount of parishion for Icelandic agriculture, food, and groceries. What exactly does that suggest? The agriculture and forestry are taking correct steps to transfer it from the Environment Ministry to the Marine Department and Agriculture Ministry, but what exactly contributes to our vigorous application of food? What else is there to support agriculture in exactly this? Second, I'd like to ask who. A senator will be pleased that the Children's Office of Education and Children moves from the Ministry of Presidency to the Ministry of Education and Children. Children's agent is an independent administrative agency and I think it's important that it's independent and more than an arm length from the sources it's supposed to monitor. In my opinion, the establishment of children's emissary is making it harder for them to be under the same department as they're supposed to supervise. I'd like to get a second opinion. It's for a senator. Then I would simply like to ask, " Do I find these hundreds of millions of dollars of money at the end of the day suitable for me? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm glad she asks about the Food Ministry, since I'm especially happy with the emphasis. It has lacked so much that we look at ourselves as a food - producing nation, and we need to build on it. As soon as we do so, we are calling attention to the fact that this is our contribution as a food nation, i.e. that we are close to climate targets. This enables us to be effective in these matters. What a joy it is to be looking for food ethic! I think that there's only improvement, and also moving projects to the forest and land transplants in there, and we're looking at this as a whole base. With children's agent, I don't have the right to reason why they're being framed. Like what? A senator came in on them, perhaps it's unfortunate that he's going under there. This is one of the things I'm going to ask about when we're going to be in Congress on these matters. But I don't have the reasons, I'll just admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u73	A respectable president. It is understandable not to be clear, since there have been no analyses and no policies. Only last week was one minister who said to me: Yes, I got news on Wednesday that I had this particular case within the Ministry. No one has a perspective. It is also no coincidence that it is only the ancients who are in their place. Everything else is jumped up. My point is that I'm a positive change to the Environment and Climate Ministry. I hope we see some movement in the transport system. And I come to a question. A senator, and to demonstrate that we have to start using our green energy, go to activations on the basis of a frame plan, on the basis of the existing one, so we can get started in energy exchange. Counts 'em out. A senator that there will be something done during this terms, or will we remain in this black hole that we were in the last term where nothing was moving on? Hv. A senator, who is a regional senator, knows well that the transport system to form has been in paralysis for years now, just as an independent and forwarding party has been responsible for that issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's exactly that point I was going to enter in my speech first. I hope that there will finally be something about the transport system in the country because it is now under the Department of Internal Affairs. It's the pulse you need to work on. It's the organizational issues in this regard, perhaps it's been missing. I think this was exactly the thought behind moving the planning business into the wood office, so that we can get a complete view, and we can do something radical about it, and safely get the electricity around the country. And then there are the natural areas that simply run out of electricity, we also need to watch to activate in those areas to increase electricity supply. The transfer is not a factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u75	Madam President. Thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here on this council resolution. It may be nice to mention it here at the outset, because some members of the council have been asking, and I have a clear understanding that not everyone is aware of the problem. Councilmen with every speech held here, in the development of this council decree, and in the right hand. Councilmen, such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, expressed doubts about that methodology, is legally bound. This legal obligation is placed on prime minister during the 2011 transition to the Council of Government. Hv. A senator has established in several talks that it is important to review the laws on the Council of Government. I just want to reiterate what came out in my debate, and actually in the debate of policy, it's just to revise the laws on the Council of Control. It's a project that takes time and needs to be careful, and there I will request consultation with all groups represented at the General Assembly. But what interests me is that I hear that a lot of people are there. Senators say at least that they feel that it is normal for them to be responsible, in fact, to determine how they are involved. That's my opinion. But I, in fact, hear of it. Parliaments also have strong opinions about how to make a switch, and this is only natural. I believe there are many systems in which we have a fixed system, well, what can we say, such a hybrid of systems in the development of 2011, when it was intended to cross into the Norse System or system that is more like the Norse System, but because of much opposition at the council, this methodology was adopted that the prime minister should submit such a pactary proposal. There have been many expensees here. However, I would like to reiterate what was shown in my introduction to the cost of this change, i.e. The establishment of new schemes is 450 billion. K. In addition to 56 million with a new minister and two helpers, this cost is available. There have been some claims on the costs of previous transport, as though the cost of transporting equality was 200 billion. K. There is no argument. That cost was the value of one office manager. Then I come to another point that's been named here, and that's how well a group of lawsuits have come to move between schemes. It has been noted that there were then entire offices that moved between recruitment practices. I can say that it simplifys the transfer of lawsuits. These are entire offices that move between recruitment practices. The problem is, not every group of lawsuits has an office in Iceland's Management Board. Climate was not hosted in a special office until 2020, when a special office was formed on climate issues. More important, there was not one office in the Board of Directors until 2019, just after the transfer to the Ministry of Presidency. So I think it'd be nice to reiterate what I came to here in a minute counter some day, that it would be interesting for a reason. A board of directors and patrols to review the move and how it had been accomplished and whether people thought that this was a good move, because I hear it. Congress officials are concerned about changes. I came up here and tried to answer a little bit more about the individual issues in the past and to reiterate the subject of children that, in the Education and Child Services Department, we provide an integrated service for the benefit of children, children's and family agencies, child protection and the analysis and counselliness department. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's Þorgerður has discussed an agent of children taken by Presidential order to the Ministry of Education and Childhood with the argument that the office has taken over certain projects on the European Commission for the success of children. We've had a conversation with Salvör Nordal who's taking this office. We agree that there is a need to reconsider the possibility of this situation, i.e. ... theofficeofwork. It may be normal for the office to be exclusively on the job of monitoring and maintaining. And it is only natural that the office would be heard by the Ministry of Presidency, now or even by the General, as has actually been discussed in some cases. I'd like to reiterate that it's not over, but I'm aware of the concerns as well. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir arrived here. We will also need to look forward to more clearly identifying whether the office should have a primary role in monitoring and maintenance, or to a direct project of action, since this will only change the nature of the office. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, also specifically referred to Husalin and the Aarhus, who are under the department of the university, industry, and innovation. The Department of Culture is the head of the jury and the Committee to Refect, but in other respects, the Age Institute, which is a university institution by law. Of course, a senator knows very well from his previous profession, under the university Department. There are some causes here. Councilmen specifically mentioned communication. I did a little cross-checking last night, and I understand fully - I think the evidence can go both ways, i.e. On the one hand, telecommunication is primarily thought of as part of the interior, but it can also be thought of as an essential basis for the intelligent branches of the university Ministry, industry, and innovation, which is why they are there. Here's what we got. Congress members are concerned that there may be a loss of service to citizens, even those not responding to or such. I'm not gonna worry about them. As a matter of fact, I often worry, just now and long before this conversation was done, that business is not answered fast enough and efficient enough. There's nothing to do with these changes, and there's something I think is the temporary project of the minister and of those who are in charge of counsel, to make sure they react. I also know that this can be a serious task. I especially know from the Ministry of Education and Culture, which I once conducted, that there were discourses every year for thousands, that were large and small and varied events that needed to be addressed, so the pressures can often be great. Of course, it will be considered, as well as the rights and rights of employees, that I repeated yesterday and also reiterate it today because of words that have fallen here in our discussion today. I'd like to say, because there has also been a considerable debate about whether there's any reason to change and whether this is some wonderful measure and even some counsellor came and wrote this suggestion--I know that the Office of the Ministry of Presidency is very happy to be considered so exciting, because it's written by the Ministry's Office of Prime Ministers management of the good lawyers there, who may not now have thought themselves to be such an enormous susceptibility, so let me destroy, Madam President, and the President can remind me of the following. But it is, of course, merely a traditional document, written by law, and tried to be careful of their actions and to reflect the emphasis found in a government contract. Then we'll get back to it. that there are other viewpoints when we are planning the Ministry of Policy, political policies, and the priorities of governments at one time, and then government agencies that care for other and targeted projects and laws when making such policy decisions. I'd like to mention it because of what you're doing. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was here only to discuss the effects on the committee's committees. That's exactly where I feel that there's a key point, i.e. that the decision and authority of the council is not to determine whether or not the council will decide to interfere in any other way with this decision. To be honest, I have the opinion as a senator that it just doesn't need necessarily at all and there's nothing wrong with the fact that an General and Education Committee will continue to pursue culture even though the cultural issues are in the Ministry of Business and Travel. That's what I look at and draw them for even the pictures. From Denmark and Norway, where the Committees are independent and approach such projects as these, i.e. The Parliament at any given time best evaluates, however, that the structure of the project involves work and is very capable. On the other hand, in the long run, I think it is a special task to think the Council in a way that is more mobile in its nature, so that such projects are less business and will help me to understand that I think it is healthy and good for the Council, like other institutions in our society, to be able to cope with changes both inside and outside the house. I look at these changes as a number of parishes, where different language groups can enjoy new harmony groups of subjects and even new ideas and new knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u76	Madam President. I scored to the highest. The minister of the past answers my speech and the highest. Since the challenge was not accepted by the prime minister, I accepted the challenge of responding to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister. I only have a simple question to the highest. Prime Minister, a question that can be answered with a yes or no. When I asked the highest. Social Affairs the same question, I said to him: "Don't answer with a ◯ you need to or to point out someone else. The question is, will the highest. Prime Minister to employ it within the supreme government. The prime minister dictates that there will be a poorly monopolies before Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u77	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I have, in fact, because he's here talking about me not taking a challenge, putting it into my mind in the past 14 years not to let others tell me what to do, when I speak, or what I say, and intend to keep that way. But because of him. A senator asks them, of course, I know the suggestions, have used me for improving the quality of disability during my last term, and will continue to do so. And as it has been observed in my earlier comments here in unsubstantiated i believe very important that a financial committee accepts this proposal and looks at it out of the interest of this group that we know is going to be in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u78	Thank you very much. Prime Minister for partially answering the question. The question was, will the highest. The prime minister of this matter using himself within the government? Don't point to the budget, it's going to be the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers putting forth great effort to improve the quality of disability right now for this Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u79	Madam President. Hv. The legal committee has the case. That doesn't mean I'm pointing to a budget. It means pointing to the obvious fact. As I mentioned earlier, in the past, I have used improved disability options in all the proposals that have been made in recent years and last in a financial bill with an additional increase in disability pensioner. I'd like to say about these matters, in terms of monopolics, that we're all aware that this group is in perpetuity, especially the largest income in that group. The major challenge in these matters is to achieve system changes in this system to make it more righteous and more beneficial and to ensure the survival of those whose feet are on the move. In recent years, this has not been possible despite various efforts, various committees, many suggestions. I challenge, because of what. A senator is a major challenge, the Allied Council of Iceland, to ensure that righteous changes are made to this system of future losses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u80	Still no answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u81	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for entrance. I'd like to ask you a few questions. First, students, as well as some who know well, have pointed to and been somewhat critical of increased transparency, and they do not fully see the purpose of all changes. Well, there's a lot of things out there that's positive, that's not the point, but I'm talking about people's tips, including... from the educational and educational community, which says, e.g. not being guided by the General's study report. The first question: Does a minister believe that these changes are in harmony with the suggestion that the Ministry of the time was not strong enough, has not been sufficiently powerful? Is that what it's all about? Second, the minister says that the Council is to be carefully reviewed, and they will no doubt do so. Does this mean that a minister may see to it some change in the case of the council? And I hope about an agent of children, but I hear a lot of people are also wondering about the telecommunications. Does a minister see the need for this matter to be changed in the case of the council? Third, and that may have something to do with the Constitution, and I think it matters how the Council of Government intervenes, that is the issue of the legalized UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. They're talking about an institution of human rights. That's an update on what it'll be like, whether it's Alduke's agent or how we'll do it. The point is that this will be done. The Independence Party has always resisted this, the Ministry of Justice led by them, and I asked many local ministers, and it was just a no. Will these adjustments help us to see that this vital matter is beyond our reach? Is the issue of human rights being transferred to the Ministry of Presidency for movement?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u82	Madam President. Thank you. A senator opposed to this synonym. First, I'd like to say regarding the role of an agent of children: If I hadn't been clear enough earlier, I'd like to reassign that office to the Ministry of the Presidency, and possibly thereafter to review the law on the possible location of the office at the General Assembly. Yet, I still do not want to go further than saying that this was a matter of view. But that is the case. Secondly, why? Senator: Will the matter change to the council? I don't see myself making the motion, i.e. The proposal itself, centered on the establishment of these schemes alone, will change, but, of course, the Committee will deal with the underlying projects, which take place between recruitment and expected to offer a committee opinion that is relevant to us in the government, as I consider that the work of the Committee may be helpful for us to address these changes. Of course, the design arrangement itself appeared in the Presidential decision that does not come to the Council. Just for an explanation. Hv. A senator asks about the General Commission. I now quote the report I submitted to the council on how the tips had been responded to in a report by the Allied Committee. Part of that indication included to change how we work at the Board of Directors. We took to create Ministerial Committees on specific matters. It is a novelity that occurs after the World Council Board of Research, is passed on to the Council of Government, and has, of course, improved coordination and the way the Ministry cooperates. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. A senator well knows this as a minister in different times, these changes. So I think that the work force as it changed after the study report will stay, and it will be very trying, after that, I think. [[The president calls.]] But I also believe that there is great opportunity. I come to the legal firmament of the treaty in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u83	A respectable president. Thank you for that, chief. Prime Minister. It will be good to know about the legalization of the United Nations agreement afterwards. How important it is to receive clear answers there! I find this huge expense very strange, many hundreds of millions. I don't think that this is the first step, increasing the number of Kingdom employees, and going out for hundreds of millions of dollars in those times. But there's another story, and we just disagree about it. I'd like to draw up that there are some changes that I think are reasonable and can increase efficiency in the system, including that the planning department is moving to the Department of Internal Affairs and also the rest, the Environment and Resource Ministry has become clearer. It's the highest. Prime Minister requesting that it be implemented, based on the development of a second minister and management agency changing, to activate on the basis of the framework, to activate in this ideal period of green energy, in the interest of the economy, in the interest of environmental and climate targets, in the interests of energy exchange? It's the highest. A minister is requesting that such inducers and preparations be taken right now in the early stages and early years of this government, supporting the huge task that we will need to take on sooner and later?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u84	Madam President. The reason for transport of human rights matters is, in fact, the harmony we see with human rights and the office of equality in the Ministry of Presidency, which is a great knowledge of this field. It is my conviction that the legalization of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights should be priorities, and according to our experts it means an independent human rights agency, so it will be a task that we will now face to try to complete, and it is emphasized in a government contract. I'm just gonna say, because I know why. A senator burns to this matter, that it is very important that we finish this well but I also believe that the knowledge that is in the Ministry of Justice of Equal Opportunities will help us to drive this thing well and end it. In terms of the environmental and energy issues: As a result, this discussion has changed dramatically in recent years. We're getting closer to the climate because we have to attack energy exchanges. We have a new energy policy that really isn't about the environment and about nature protection. I think this change adds to the harmony of this group and gives it a chance, as it were, to the highest level. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister has said to take this discussion only out of the holes it has been in. I think there's a lot of parishion too. Hv. A senator asks me what I think about the continuum transfunctioner in a frame plan, and I can just say that I have a short frame plan as a tool and I think it's the best tool we have in these cases. I've agreed to the 2nd meeting and I believe we should get the third one through. I agree fully with what is stated in a government contract, that there is a need to revise the law and review it. But this ideologies is the best we have, and we should hold on to this tool when we are making important decisions on both energy efficiency and, rather, protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u85	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of the Children's Family and the Law on the Quality and Health Organization. The bill is designed to ensure the legal status of government officials who move to these new institutions at this year's turn. In a proposal for the resolution of the changed order of recruitment at the Iceland Board of Directors, the new Ministry of Education and Childhood is expected to handle the affairs of Children and Family Services and to be submitted by the bill in consultation with Education and Children's Affairs. The two new institutions begin on January 1, 2022, according to the law of No. 87/2021 and No. 88/2021, which was approved in this hall on June 11 of that year. Within the Quality and Observation Agency, monitoring projects on the Department of Social Affairs will be met and met together. The foundation of the Agency is the Quality and Observation Institute of Social Services and Child Protection, which today is the Ministry of Social Services. A new agency also accepts surveillance programs from other governments, including the Children's Protection Agency. The Agency will then monitor integration services for the benefit of children. A children's and family room receives most of the projects currently being done by the Children's Protection Agency. The Agency is aimed at providing broad counseling and supportive support, especially when it comes to child protection and integrating services for the benefit of children. V.E.G. President. Next year, the Children's Protection Agency and the Ministry Agency will be deposed and the children's welfare services will be taken care of and the new institutions will take over their work. Great manpower and knowledge are available to employees of these institutions, and it is important that none of their transfer to the new institutions will be negligent. The bill is therefore suggested to add new requirements temporarily to the Children's and Family Laws and the Quality and Health Organization that discuss the rights of the staff of the Children's Institutes Agency and the Quality and Observation Agency of Social Services and Children's Protection when the new institutions begin to operate. The bill therefore recommends that jobs at the Children's Institute of Child Services and the Quality and Management Department of Social Services and Children's Protection will be transferred to the new institutions by taking over current employment contracts with those who are engaged in law-making jobs. 87/2021 and Track No. 88/2021, which will happen on January 1, 2022. Since the bill is about to clarify and ensure the legal status of a state worker in connection with the adjustment of an established arrangement that now applies for years, I rely on good cooperation. Senators on a New Year's Relation. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-16-12.u86	Madam President. I'm bringing a bill here to legalize the game's election law. 112/2021, on behalf of the Administrative and Observation Committee of the Generals. Thus, on January 1, 2022, during the last assembly, election laws were revised and approved changes that will take effect today during the New Year's season. When the law's taking effect, with the changes they say they're going to fall off the law on the elections to the government, No. 5/1998, and the U.S. election, No. 24/2000. The administrative and monitoring committee was approached to deliver this bill and decided the Commission to accept it because we strongly believe that this is the way the votes and elections that the rural communities have planned and had to be held in the early part of the next year, i.e. to the county election that is planned on May 14, 2022. Thus, this brief bill, which contains only two articles, appears in Article 1. The following, by permission of the President's office: ▪ In spite of the 7. 2 mg. 22nd Gr., 143. gr. and number 3. 144. g. Is it a law to Presidents? No. 5/1998, and the U.S. election, No. 24/2000, maintain value for votes among rural populations on the basis of 38. Gr., 107th par. and 119th par. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, conducted before May 14 May 2022. Their implementation is a series of votes based on the U.S. Commission elections, No. 5/1998, and the Generals Act, No. 24/2000, as appropriate. So we turn this over to human affairs, Mrs. President, it just means that you can have city elections, which we understand to be at least One four, even spinning. of rural unions and even more, beginning of the year, February, March They will be carried out in accordance with the old legislation, although changes in election law will go into effect for the New Year's Eve. Here is also the reason, first of all, what I mentioned at the outset, that with the changes that take effect during the New Year's Day campaigns, the other two laws will be removed. But there is a certain hole that comes up, so to speak, i.e. waiting for a new bill, I guess it'll be the best. The manager who proposes this, intended to appear in the spring months of 2022, which is in terms of the change in local administration. Here's what we've got. The administrative and monitoring committee took over a very feminine way of stopping into this could so that these local elections can be held. I allow myself at the end of my case here to make my suggestion that the bill goes straight to the 2nd.
