ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u1	President. In these days, when politics, their reporting, and their discussion are all becoming more and more about persons, we well remember that some cases are designed to make them so much bigger than all the people in their turn. This is one of them. This case concerns Iceland's highlands, the nature that we all are responsible for, the heart of our country. It is so much bigger than any of us who are involved in this discussion, larger than any individual political group, members of Congress, heads of groups, and groups themselves, and possible for them. President. I recommend a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, which seems to be in spite of the large amount of paper I have brought with me here in the pontum, so I'm missing the commission myself and thank you. Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for saving me with it. President. We do not have to comment on the magnitude of the matter under which we speak. This is not a new case. This was not the case when the current government decided to come together, the class members of it. This has been in the dough for years and decades. Politicians have arranged for this. The left movement in the green supply held that up. People in most categories, if not all categories, have arrived at some point. Three last environmental ministers have somehow arrived to set up a national park in Iceland's highlands. Hv. a current environmental minister, Magnúsdóttir Magnúndóttir, of the advance group, in the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulson, set out a work that returned to the final report on the basis of a national park in the middle of Iceland's highlands. In that government were a forward group and an independent party. This report was presented by British environmental minister Ólafsdóttir, Olafur's daughter, on the short time she sat in office in the government of an independent party, in the exorcise, and in the future. Then this case was entered into the government covenant of the present government. The groups she ordered agreed to set up a national park in the highlands of Iceland. Rather, each representative of all the classes belonging to the General Assembly was assigned to a cross -cut committee or cross - political committee. It produced a report in December 2019, a Great National Park. Under it all but a representative of the Central Party, which I believe will account for his viewpoints in a talk below. President. What I'm saying with this list is reminding us that the establishment of a national park in Iceland is a great deal of agreement. I'm going to take my responsibility seriously when it comes to that agreement, and I'm going to work on it, as if I did so until now, in the discussion here, working on it, that it may live. Just to this end, more of the Environment and Transport Committee has proposed a committee opinion that I'm not yet on board because I've been given the wrong paper in the good cooperation that has been established here. The more part of the Environment and Transport Committee is suggesting that there will be further progress on the case, that there will be no death on the committee. We will hear in the discussion a wide range of historical reviews on what that means, and it's just good and blessed. People have different views. There is, however, no question that if nothing had been done about it, nothing would have been done. There would have been no need for this committee to be settled. A number of political issues are not made up of a committee. However, this is made up of clear instructions on what is more than a part of the environment and transport committee and, hopefully, the Allied Council can get along. The Committee's opinion with a deliberation proposal reviews the discussion of the Committee. The number of references is so great that it takes the first two pages. They are, if I recall correctly, 158 of them. I don't know how many people have read every single letter in these reviews. That's what I've done, and there's a lot of good things to do. President. I went over the story a little, and I ended up in the matter we now suggest that the government be referred to and that we live. I'm not going to drag feathers over the fact that although I am happy that the matter will live by this release, I was disappointed that the case was not to live in such a way that it would simply be agreed. I took seriously the fact that it was in a government contract, and I expected it to be accepted. However, the matter has been extremely controversial. I've mentioned here, Mr. President, all these reviews, and I've coded them according to what the comments are, where they turn. Do they turn to community autonomy, too much media control, or what? Because all of this is contained in these reviews. You see, the matter is enormously broad. With such a matter, it is so easy if the will is to find an angle, be against it, and say: I disagree against everything. It was a symptom of overcrowding those who were created on both sides of the past year, a discussion in which people, both inside and outside, reviewed the matter. Several things were said there, and I simply consider that the information is not correct or that the matter is interpreted in a very peculiar way. Good-bye. You can't insist on talking about big things just asking your own heads, it would be better now. But a controversial, huge case that has been in progress for a long time, produced a vastly wide - scale bill based on well - worked groundwork, handled an amazing number of objects. The matter came to pass later than it was supposed to. It was supposed to happen last year. We were supposed to have a year and a half, something like that, run off if we had needed it, or we'd have made it here at the council last year. But the highest. The minister suggested that the discussion about the matter be postponed by Covid. Covid affected everything. I've heard people argue that the case was influenced by Covid. They're my people knowing to talk out of their own interests in politics, not in a fair way about reality. Covid truly affected the matter. If Covid had not been available, the case would have been presented last year. It is not as if this was the only case. Environmental and transport committees have been involved. I took it together that during the present session, the Committee has delivered a 19 - case case case to the 2nd. and personally gave four cases. It is good to remember that during the last assembly, the 18 committees handled matters, the last 22 cases. The committee was doing full - time work, showing good work on all the jobs we had to do, and it wasn't the case of Covid. These were all the other matters we had to work on. This big case needs coverage. The Committee's opinion on the basis of a report reviews just what the committee's discussion was. I'm not going to trace it here, either, a brief review of the story I've gone over here myself. I have also worked as an executive for the case outside of the council. For example, I've had phone calls with every local company involved, 21 rural society. I've called every one of them. I've met a lot of them in special meetings where I've been trying to straighten this out. I have talked to a number of members, both the organization of people who are primarily concerned about their free journey to the highlands and the organization that is primarily concerned with protecting the highlands, even though I now think that many more are united in these two views than might be expected at first sight. I've spoken with representatives of those who want to enjoy the highlands in some way. I believe, Mr President, that no matter how much I worked within the council, or rather outside the council, because these meetings were not on the standard program but were then reserved for me. What I'm pulling out of this job is that I've met a very few people who are completely against national parks in the highlands. If we read through these 158 envelopes, the same will be evident. There are very few envelopes that say: Not a national park on the highlands at all. However, there are many of them who say work has to be done better, that there is a greater need for reconciliation. That's what a lot of things are. The Environment and Transport Committee proposes a procedure. We also listened in the reviews. I don't think those elected agents who react to what the reviews say are going beyond what the attorney general wants. This is called for more peace. To this end, the more part is suggested that the matter be won more. We believe that the discussion that has been conducted in recent years, both about an existing bill but as well as about what I've traced here and the work that has been done by other ministers, is an essential part of the process of reconciliation. We think there are a number of factors we need to take into consideration. We will drive them into the Committee's list, national boundaries, reservations of protection, how rural society's attitudes will be adopted, administrative arrangements, practices, organizational integrations, business plans, traffic regulations, custom applications, extreme financial needs, how business contracts will be introduced, and how to deal with cases that will be divided between different advisers, so that I run over the dogs over the points that we will take in the committee opinion and all will be able to present myself. We believe that if we continue to discuss these matters, with those coming in, the subject will grow more and out of it, the things we hide at the highest point. Environment and resource minister to do a new bill on the subject requested. In a committee party, we say, with the permission of a president: ▪ Iceland's land is unique and needs to be used effectively when it comes to the protection and use and companionship of that region. Trust must be developed between those involved, including the locals, local communities, members of society, and the government. The majority believe that to achieve such peace, it is necessary to give the matter more time and it is important to continue working on it in broad consultation with all the nurses. - That's how it goes, Mr President. I would have chosen that we could have taken more of our hands together, put together more effort to resolve the matter, all of us more fully to find solutions that would be needed to resolve the matter. However, a pandemic situation caused a period of shame. Another issue that the committee had to discuss had the same effect. A lot of stories and conflicting opinions called for detailed coverage, and I think that almost had to clear the board. The Environment and Transport Committee of the Management Board of Environment and Transport should have been thoroughly discussed in this case at the time the committee was dosed, as it was agreed that a discussion by the Committee would not be started until February. President. I could talk a lot longer about national parks than I've done here, I've done it and I'll certainly do it. I've described my conversations with people, phone calls. The greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and to the Minister of Environment and Resources to submit a new bill on the subject based on the work being traced to the Committee and I've gone over here. Under countless publications, apart from mine. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I would have chosen to have more of them. The members of the council were involved, and they preferred to continue working on the case rather than to be stopped. That was the time when we decided to withdraw the matter from a committee. But who has to choose how to act here? I concluded: To me, it is disappointing that the matter should not be resolved at this council. I am glad, though, that we accept and support the important issue, so I refer to continued work. I have no doubt, Mr President, that there will be a national park in Iceland's highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, the manager of the greater part, the rest of the story, and the hard work I know the senator has put into this case. I know that the matter is certainly his heart's concern, so I would like to thank him very much, even if we disagree on the matter as such. In the Commission opinion - where the senator emphasizes that this payment, this contraption as it already exists, is being maintained, maintain it for further development - is listed as one of eight things that require special consideration, careful consideration, completion, and reconciliation, if in one way or another, being brought to earth for continued work. Then, with permission from the President, the committee concluded: In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter... My question to why. The manager is: This point is stated here, that environmental and resource ministers will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter - look sharp. So, according to one authority, the government parties continue in the next term, to be the current categories, the Independence Party, and the forwarding party, bound to make a commitment to put in, complete, and amend the bill of a highland park, as it happens after that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u3	President. I think there's a lot more to consider than there's in the points in the committee. This may be a small attempt to list what would have been in a committee party suggesting that the case had been accepted. We would have had to deal with all this. If people are to settle matters in general, much more is involved than is done here. I've never heard anything else from any of the officials of the controversial categories. A senator asked about but is willing to start a national park in the middle of Iceland. I've heard people say that opposition to the bill as it looks, I've heard people say that certain things aren't addressed in it, I've heard people say that they need to change the bill as it is, and other things, but I haven't heard anyone say--what. A senator will correct me if he knows I'm wrong, it may well be, I'm pretty often wrong - that he is completely against national parks. I hope, Mr. President, whatever the next secretary of the environment, he will try to present such a matter to him, he will respect the will that is expressed in all the comments that followed the case -- I only covered earlier that there are so many comments that they say: Yes, we may want to change this or the other, we're against this and this, but we're not against National Park - that he will respect it in such a number of comments as well as a positive attitude toward national park over a highland, regardless of the case. I hope the next one. The secretary of the environment, whoever he shall be, will respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Just so I get it right, a panel of members of the council looks greener -- I'm giving myself that this committee opinion is submitted with consent and in his commission as to any other political organisations involved - not so that it is a commitment to end the matter in the next term. It would be interesting to know if it is the correct understanding. I think it's true that one of the prominent men he claimed about himself, that few were better read than he was in what has been written on this subject. The points listed in these points - I just referred to them because they're here. For some reason, they are here, and there must be some indication that these are considered specific points that need to be stressed or that have not been discussed in the preparatory process already. It's even here. Talk about boundaries of national parks and reservations, governance, cooperation of rural planning and management, and some other factors. Each of these factors determines why. An executive who was the worst tore up in the current work and is being referred to by the government? My divorce at the highest. The minister of the environment so far has always been aware that the minister considered all these matters to be discussed, taking into account the viewpoints, the joint conclusions already being made, and that they were presented in the current case. [[The president calls.]] First it is called for answers on whether an individual government team should require that it be committed to finishing the case during the next term and then on where the emphasis is on this warning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u5	President. Again for the next highest. Environment Minister, whoever he becomes: I only reviewed that almost all classes, or groups, have come to work on a national park in the middle of the country. I thought there was something certain that there were men left on it. The Chairman of the Class. A senator, Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, was prime minister in a government that began this work. It's the highest-class group sister. A former prime minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, started the matter, which was at the head of the court. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the future prime minister, began with this very good report. There's a lot of it on the bill right now. So I've just considered general agreements to establish the park. I don't quite share this vision. Senator. Perhaps I am the other person's bottom because you never know what's cut out of what you're saying: I've thought that there's a general agreement about starting a park, but there's a debate about what it would be and what it would be like, a limit, a ruling order. I don't necessarily share that vision. The senator says there is some list of indecisions. It's not like that at all. They're hiding the government and the highest. Minister to do a certain job. One part of it is that in that job, a lot of things have to be handled. Of course, a new matter is presented. We know it's not gonna work out. There must be a new issue. To make peace, we feel that these things need to be addressed. Some of these have been handled very well in the current situation, knowing as it is, but some need to be a little more careful, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his story in this case. I'm going to ask you a little bit about the terms of a government contract. The Treaty of the current government states: It will be a national park in the middle of the country that will be agreed with a transnational Parliamentary Commission. -...and other stakeholders. There will be a national park in the middle of the country. Did any of the officers do so on account of a group of left - green colleagues at this time? Who were the examples, and where were they recorded? There is no covenant of government. I have not seen them. Later it turns out that men have all sorts of warnings; members of the colleagues were tireless to enumerate warnings that they had in later stages. After years, people have been referring specifically to all kinds of warnings, presenting them. So I'm gonna ask you what. Senator: Were there no warnings at the outset? Are all of this later served as a warning, and what is the value of this provision in a government covenant that states that the government will set up a national park in the Middle East? What was the situation with the government at the time? Let's take words from a bank language: Look left green so that they would have signed and unfilled checks from an independent and forwarding class? Did they think of him as having his hand, that it was in their hands to interpret the park?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u7	President. I have to admit that I don't fully understand how a government contract should be made different from that of a professional minister. I don't know exactly how to do it. A senator sees that the terms of a government covenant are otherwise handled. This has been true of all cases of government covenants, natural. The agreement is that this and the other are to be done. For example, they agreed to change the tax system. Then there is the Minister of Ministers who goes to restore the low - income steps. Of course, there is nothing that the management parties all work together, members of Congress. I don't know exactly how to do it. A senator sees this differently. It's been so long since I had my checkbook, I have to admit that I don't quite remember what that feeling was like to have an unfilled check or whether I've ever held one. I'm afraid to take it away. It's not the metaphor that brings me into mind to describe my feelings. I described earlier that I had been disappointed that this case had not come through. In regard to the warning of other classes, I suppose it is best to inquire of them. I did not sit at the table making this treaty. I was not at the council meetings of the other classes when they took their warning. I saw some of them. I don't know how to put it any different, but it wasn't an advance of left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u8	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer, but it was a shame. Was the widespread and fierce opposition of a country's community to the forwarding squad, a government team of left green partners, to surprise? When they signed the government covenant, did they not expect the opposition? Was it to surprise the independents that with an organization so large a park would be shut down for further efficiency in the park area? Was this to be a surprise to them? If I like it in the face of battle, it can be said that when men had to face the opposing forces, all of the government's members were out of the scene. When the general looked back, all the soldiers were gone, and he stood alone. Left green stood alone when they looked back and sought support from their fellow workers in the government. They had disappeared from the scene. The opposition that existed among the rural communities surrounding the country was not to be surprising and the impact on future energy efficiency. That's the context of my question. Hv. The senator didn't answer, and I didn't hear him answer it. paritaprevir The Bergþór son of Ólason in the first, whether they are now members of the government, if they come to power again and form a government, will finish the case, that they are committed to it, as the greater part says. It must be a commitment to the missing officers to participate in the next full battle. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u9	Madam President. Although Góggi, my great-grandfather, was the Gestur of an independent farmer who later became the forwarder, and Proppé, another of my great-grandfather, served at a council for some kind of version of the Independence Party, I refused to answer for what should surprise the lndependence and the forwarders, as it were. A senator asks me about it. I'm a patriarch, and I'm well aware of my family's history, but this connection doesn't seem to me to have the obligation that I answer for it. I'll just say again, "Is what?" Don't a senator ask the wrong senator what he wants to know? I just don't know how to put it any other way. I don't quite understand the metaphoric forest with the unpublished check and the general. In my background, I said that I was disappointed that not all of us had worked together. I was disappointed that the matter would not be realized. I understand that the influence of various external factors, and respect for the fact that when the case developed and was employed by the Committee this spring simply did not allow time to finish it. Still, I would have chosen that we had all one - handed in the matter before. But as for the senators of the Future Party and the Independence Party, I do not expect to be Albania's members in this conversation. A senator has something not to say to the forwarding party members, and I suggest that an independent party speak to them directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u10	Mr. President. We've heard what we've heard. The head of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee will explain to members of the Committee on Environment and Transport, including the National Relations Act on high-national legislation. It was truly sad to hear how it was. A spokesman sought to trace and define the reasons why life and health of this matter have come to this outlook and are uncertain of fate. But, hey. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is optimistic about the life of the matter, and so shall all of us. If the highland park was a health care provider, what department would it be in today? Would he be in the emergency room? Would he be in a rehabilitation ward or on pa·rou·siʹa treatment? I believe it's not that serious. If the Conspiracy had been allowed to take care of this good and, in fact, a manly client, he would be discharged. He would be struggling to enjoy life in the wild, and he would be happy. Let us hope that this subject will yet be allowed to take place, enjoy life, and prosper in its course. Mr. President. I hereby recommend the opinions of the environment and transport committee on high-regional parks, my share. View audio as follows: ▪ When it comes to the case of a pandemic crown virus, the first of my less parts feel that it is a prelude to bear a time shortage when it comes to something as important as a highland park. The first minor part does not agree with such explanations, pointing out that the bill was submitted more than six months ago. Before that time, the case, one of the biggest issues in the government covenant, had been in at least two years of consultation and covering work across the country. Under the treatment of the case, the commission received a number of experts and stakeholders and received 155 reviews for the case. The minister and the government have had plenty of time to work on the case, and many people have found themselves in the community on this matter. The majority of them talk about solidarity, but it is clear that political will is lacking among the government groups in order to finish it. This is true in spite of huge compromises to those who want to keep the open that new fortresses will be both within the national park and within its borders. The United States has been fighting for national parks in the middle of Iceland. How disappointing, then, that for many years there is now one of the biggest battles of environmental concern! The first memory section believes that the suggestion of the greater part to refer the bill to the government is surrender. Under this opinion, the writer of this report, The Brjánsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The prehistoric Guðjón of Brjánsson and of the committee's cooperation in this and other matters, which has been excellent. I'd like to ask you what. In his speech, a senator concluded that the formation of a park in the middle of the country, or highland, was a long - term fighting issue of the United States. I think that's what we're talking about. In fact, a senator spoke of it in a way that since the formation of the United States, this had been her goal. But I would like to ask. A senator whether the Conspiracy is of the opinion that the bill should have agreed as it was proposed. Environment Minister. And if not, where are the problems, preferably on the bill submitted and maybe whatever. A senator suggests that the emphasis is missing and the pressure on the energy efficiency mechanisms that I hear to be part of the aims to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason for his answer. This matter has long history, and it is true that this has been a focus of the Syndicate from an institution, more or less on the program. It's been suggested, I don't remember, when it was, but I can't remember better than here has been proposed a conquistador to this subject as the first clue to this. This subject has been discussed in the council, and there is not much that we would make a comment to as the case was tore up at the end. As far as I'm concerned, it may not be possible to put my finger on some particular thing, but it probably would have developed in some way. If it had been further discussed and given more space to gain further consultation with stakeholders, it would have evolved, perhaps to some extent, but basically we would have agreed on the bill as it happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like a later answer to just come in, and then, with a reference to the general view of the Continent on that subject, how. A senator sees that the founded national park in the highlands will be the result in the next term or later, further energy use forms within the high-regional line, in connection with the so-called energy exchange that the whole body is occupied with most days. Counts 'em out. Don't you think that a senator is getting too tight on the energy resources we have, so we won't be in the bad position to form the big part of a suspect, the archipelago in Straumsvík, the larus north, and more such merchants will be in trouble? Counts the Conspiracy and what. A senator that it is quite safe to shut down any further energy uses in the highlands if you look to what you have on the bill? Who thinks so? A senator that the effect will be shut down for them? I'm reminded that the Conspiracy supported the development of Meriad Healing, of course before what happened. A senator sat at a council meeting. I'm going to have to say this on a few short notice because I don't completely figure out where the Union is in this energy trade taking into account the imminent energy exchanges, just to make sure we don't run out of power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u14	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer, man. Senator. That's a good kick to this case, i.e. The energy efficiency. How many power options do we have? Is the energy efficiency available in this country being squeezed up? I think it's a long way off. Hv. A member of the head of the Environment and Transport Committee knows and knows that there's an explanation for who is discussed and what is suggested. But I don't think it's absurd to make use of it as a reason to squeeze into the energy efficiency potential in this area. Let us see that we have not yet seen the technological changes that will take place and the increased usefulness of existing assets. With the energy we are going to see huge changes. There are, of course, other sources of energy that we will be able to channel, i.e. The wind power, and I allow myself to name the tide energy we haven't talked about, there are advantages too. So I think it's ridiculous. Whatever it is. A senator refers to the big business, where there is also the same technical transformation as evolution, better energy efficiency. I don't think there's any reason to talk about it this way and to raise fear. Mr. President. I don't want to leave the platform this time until I thank you. A prominent for his great work and effort to further this matter. There is no need for his will to be clear. He did not lose his focus, and until the 11th hour, he tried to push the matter forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u15	Mr. President. I hereby represent the opinion of the 2nd-mind part of the Environment and Transport Committee on a bill for a high-regional legislation. 2. lesser things cannot agree with the suggestion of the greater part that the case will be referred to the government and the Environment and Resource Minister committed to providing a new bill on the subject. In fact, it is surprising that the representatives of an independent party and a forwarding party bind themselves in a way that if the government of Iceland were set up in the next term, the groups had agreed to complete a national park in Iceland's highlands, just by a few recognizances but were expected on the present bill. The next government will make an independent decision in this case, and aside from the view of the committee of the greater part with the contraband volume of the next government, unless it will be combined as the one currently living. Part 2 points to a review that in the government's administration contract, it says: a national park will be conducted in the central highlands in agreement with a transnational committee, the Ministry of Environment and Resources, a community, a nature protection and an outdoor organization, and other stakeholders. There are no warning groups with WG's members in the government, although in late stages various government officials wanted to fly alerts. The Commission's list of members of the greater part shows that the representatives of the Independence Party, Action Class and Left Forces suggest that a new bill of the Management Board will be referred to the government, and the Environment and Resource Minister will be committed to giving a new bill on the matter. This is where the three government groups directly say that if they continue as rulers during the next terms, the case will be completed, the case will be maintained alive, and a bill will be submitted to the establishment of a highland park. This contradicts what a number of representatives of these groups are saying in a different context but in a committee of more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee. I just want to keep it up so the public can see where they're headed. Looking to the subjugation, there is no evidence to suggest that the establishment of a highland park will be made up of these same categories of power during the next term. In fact, a greater proportion of the committees are committed, as well as their classes, to reevaluate the case, to be the same categories of authority after the total election in September 2021. In terms of my share, it is unacceptable, including ... becauseof all the difficulties involved and 2 less things, some of them seem to be in terms of this. Then it is in crying opposition to the will of the majority of the people. Other smaller points agree with the majority of the committee that when it comes to such a big issue, it is urgent that it be done and worked in as the largest community solidarity. This is especially true when more than one third of the country is taken under national parks against most of the rural areas in the proposed territory of the park. It should be noted that the representative of the Central Party, the one listed here, was represented by a transnational precontinent group who produced a report said to be the basis of the case, told of that work on its final meters, including the rest of the story. because he did not feel that he was being taken into account by a superior speaker. A number of narratives, in particular 158 that most people see the matter negative - although there are differing viewpoints, so to speak, and, of course, do not cut down all the narratives of the matter, but it can be said that the total proportion of the narratives received, this vast number, look negatively at the matter - should have been a minister enough evidence that the bill was not obtained. A number of people, including those on this committee, have described the agreement taken by Environment and Resource Minister as a virtual body of agreements. It was regularly heard that meetings with stakeholders led to a material conclusion that a minister simply did not agree with the viewpoints presented. Such a course is not likely to result in success in a case like this. When a fieldman portrays himself as a full - grown child for open communication and wide reconciliation, something has failed in the process. Mr. President. We who are signing this commission feel this bill is not ready. Many comments show that the content of the matter is unclear, not well done, or that the objective of the bill is completely incompatible. This appears to be the case, e.g. It is unclear whether the goal of the bill is to increase the number of tourists in the region or to reduce the number of visitors. Then we can assume that if any budget that may be needed for a highland park, projects related to Iceland's highlands will be slow enough to achieve the law's goals and even better, under the order, slightly adjusted, that we live in today's. It appears that the sole guide would be that a highland park would be established, no matter what the muttering and humming, and that the legal pattern there would be approved by the end of the season. No matter how serious they were or how obvious they may be, they could be scraped off later. In a case like this, there should be no delay in the handling of the matter, as the matter would be in general agreement. Sadly, that is not the case. In this matter of great importance to many Icelanders, the energy resources and long - term use of them, the preparation of the situation must be said to be very indiscriminate. The State Revision Report on Earth's Lakes should be a secretary's guide that these materials should be handled with caution. A respectable president. I'd like to introduce only the use of energy resources. The bill, as it is available, upsets various practical energy efficiency options, including The use of falling water and high - temperature areas in the highlands. At the same time as the government, and indeed all the people, seem eager for energy change, it is a message in the opposite direction that the energy and transport systems of electricity are as narrow as they are headed by the bill. There is a big concern that the government groups seem to be planning to engage in a second attack on the matter, in the same way they now have the opportunity to do so. If energy change plans are more expressed than on tape, then the development of Icelandic society will have a basic impact for the next few decades. The proportion of renewable energy, green energy, here on the land is the most known and long-term buildup. If further green energy generation is to be shut down within the range of the line drawn in the current bill, it will not be long before the country becomes power free in the sense of maintaining a limited supply of energy for the economy and increasing prosperity to the future. The variety of productions, such as aluminium production and various other products, creates a much lower level of carbon dioxide produced here in the country, compared with production in China, where energy comes largely from carbon burns and oil. Therefore, it is best not to rule out green energy production in a manner that is headed by the bill as it is available. A few words about the administration of these cases. With the bill, part of the entire region's organization and administration was to shift from democratically elected representatives of the countryside to representatives of other rural groups, members of society, and officials. The same can be said of the oversight, business, and decision - making that is transported by the duly appointed representatives to these parties. Comments of a number of rural communities living in a planned park showed that the organizational authorities would be moved in this way from their communities. The plan to put the whole of Iceland's highlands under the complicated government network in one condition without making a practical attempt to achieve solidarity with the government was doomed to the beginning of a journey started by the government during the season. The rural administrations of organizational authority in the region were small and were merely a part of being audiences in the administrations of the government. In other words, the discussions with local governments seem to have been more practical in the processing of the committee on the case - and I would like to commend myself. The manager of the case, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér - and better listened than in the entire operation of the Minister. That's at least Five federal institutions that are responsible for enforcing the implementation of nature protection laws as well as research and education. Whether there is a need for yet another government agency that has the same objective as many currently active institutions can be wondered. A smaller section considers the bill to be controlled by control, and it can be pointed to page 21. in a relationship that requires... a permit of the Highland National Park for organized events and individual projects in the Highland Park requiring facilities, human resources, and handling of instruments in the park, such as filming, performance, meeting features, and research ◯. New members of the highland area are constantly contributing to events that could fall on them. To think of such a broad definition of the license team best illustrates the spirit behind the bill's contribution. Another lower part points out that there is no comparison between national parks and national parks to form what is maladies in the present national system, which could possibly be cut off to achieve many of the objectives of the bill. National rule is simple and efficient. The system of government proposed in the bill is complex and long channeled. The various projects, large and small, will be delayed due to efforts in decision making, and there the steps are fearful of how things have gone on in the waters of the Lake Earth. Other minor things are very worried about the branch secretary's beds in the bill as they are already available, and I'd like to introduce them in a few words. 2nd smaller things make serious comments to the emphasis that is in the bill to give the minister of the seminar almost totalitarian power. In this way it is expected in 2 gr. the bill that a minister can determine the expansion of a highland park and set the peace description of territory by Regulation. It is also assumed that if he considers the plan to be contrary to the law or to his own regulations, he will be able to make changes in a management and protection plan. Other than that, a smaller section of 2 makes comments on how the minister's authority is widespread under the bill, especially in view of the fact that individual articles of the bill are vague words and explanations and definitions are lacking. A respectable president. I want to get in on traditional land uses. The inhabitants of the land have taken up the new highlands for fishing, fishing, and use of any kind of land. The poverty was forever wrapped in mystery and mystery. In a sense, everyone in the country had the common idea of having a share in the land. According to the National Association, the exercise of rights is an indirect possession in certain areas that may fit within the national park. These privileges are more often than not owned by farmers. In addition, the Basis of its review makes serious comments on the fact that in the Presidency Act of the Highland Park the rights of farmers to sustainable standards without the definition and application of the concept of the law and regulations. A national body of sheep farmers, such as barbaric dishes, suggests that there is no clear source of access to farmers'access to traditional uses, and a minister receives documents that may be limited to projects necessary because of innovation. A smaller section suggests that by means of the bill, changes are being made in the direction that the traditional use of land for which the population has been entitled from time to time, such as cattle bait, mountain pastures, bird catch, reindeer fishing, and hunting in rivers and lakes, will be increasingly subject to the regulations of one minister. In view of my second part, it's better at home than it's started in this respect. A few words about freedom of movement, a respectable president. 2 less than that, the concern of a number of reporters who feel that by means of the establishment of the highlands, they will in time be at the freedom of the public. So far, the population has been able to travel through the country, stop, stay, and lodge in many places where land is not private. Walkingmen, sports and horsemen, and now the last drivers on various vehicles have been able to travel through the country without interference from the government. Many commentators have expressed concern that the time could soon have come, and it has become increasingly difficult to travel to territories that are not controlled, organized, and often paid. These concerns do not seem to come out of nowhere, for example. As told by Feta, the National Association of Touristing Services in a full - year service in the highlands, a minister has closed 80 mountain roads and road routes in a Lakehjörk national park alone. According to the Feti, no reasonable explanations or reasons for these ends are available, except for the protection of nature, as their review says. Many people who have taken their new homes to the outback and travel have built a toast there, both for leisure and for the service of travelers. Among the parties is the Iceland Travel Association, which, under its heading, has to be made clear that in the bill, the members of the FI, who own and run barracks or other similar property in the planned national parks, continue their rights within the proposed national park. This point is of utmost importance to a society like FI◯ - and to others in comparable positions - a position high in 10,000 people who have devoted their work to the construction of their facilities and services in the highlands for over 90 years to come. 2 less things concern these people about the future of their activities in the planned national parks. Part 2 shows that when governments plan to place all kinds of barriers and restrictions on the ancient rights of the public in Iceland to travel freely into their country, the problem needs to be taken care of. Mr. President. Most can agree on the goal of the bill as it is already known. However, the fact is that if financial management suddenly stops being a priority, there is little in the present arrangement of matters that prevent the ten aims from being reached. That's even. The establishment of the highlands that they don't care about. However, secondary estimates are, in principle, the best place to be, as is now, in which farmers, possessors of the country, play a key role, where operators who have built up operations in the national park, as suggested, can work in a complex environment. A respectable president. It is quite surprising that representatives of the Independence Party and District of the Committee suggest that a new nation park bill be submitted to the next elected period, the task list laid for Ministers in the decision-to-be in the main part of the section when the minister is fully filled. So it's heading to the same porridge in the same bowl, continuing its existing administrative functions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u16	President. I couldn't have heard any better than what I heard. A senator spoke of the opposition of the majority of the people to a national park in the highlands. Since I know that during the discussion, the park's opponents have strongly promoted the fact that we should have the right numbers and the latest checks when talking about these things, I'd like to ask them why. A senator what he's referring to when the time comes. I made it my play while I sat under my speech. The senator to look up the subject and in a survey by Gallup in January, where more part was certainly against the bill, but no more than 50%, but a lot more contrary to the bill than by it, it was found that over 45% were in general that Iceland's highlands would be made to a national park, 34% resistance, more than an anti-reversion. A survey that was introduced to me this week, which Gallup also made for Land Protection, found that more than 43% are in favor of a national park in the middle of the country, 34% opposed. A discussion of the last five months, with all those fancy words that if this happens to be realized, it has made it possible that just as many people are opposed to national parks over the middle of the center as they were in January, 34%. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of what figures he is referring to when he says that more part of the nation is opposed and that we should listen to the results of these observations, which reveal that more, more, are bound to a national park than to an object. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. The author of a large part of the answer. Of course, in these matters it can be said that many things can be viewed, but first I want to say about them as well. A senator here says about the development of support or opposition to the national ideals, as they are predicted to draw back. The manager for much of the picture that this support would have remained, despite the upkeep of grazing, - w. A pilot shakes his head here. [[Up front.]] My point before I reach that point is that of talking over in the last few months. Of course, a senator referred to the matter as it is. There are 158 reviews, and the fact is that the vast majority of them point to a point that they consider in a negative light. It's like I came in against what. A member of the council here earlier today is, of course, not to mention every aspect of the bill as it is, men go to the next. But I'm sorry, there's another better answer. Regarding my comment that the greater part of the nation is opposed to the establishment of a highland park, it might have been said so that a smaller part of the nation would support that idea. But the fact is that the majority of the people are opposed to the current bill. What worries me is the list of projects laid up for the next environmental minister. I believe the current environmental minister thinks he has won it from A to Z.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u18	President. I'm afraid that this is what I just went into my debate, that we're gonna find ourselves some corner to be against, and then we're against everything. I've thought the discussion, and now I'm not just talking about words. A member of the council here holds the general debate peculiar to say no more. I have found that it was almost a national sport for many people to speak in such a way that not even an outsider has to be found in the truth, much more. I listened to what I heard. A senator describes it, there could be no different understanding of it, what would be changed about traffic regulations in areas that are present on the lakeland park and a peace-lit region, all of which are somehow under the rules recommended in the bill itself. And it is simply said that the majority of the people are opposed when there is nothing real about it. We allow ourselves in this matter to make some statements that may not necessarily be because we have more intense feelings on the subject. It's even Why I think it's very wise to settle the matter more carefully, to try to make this peace. I think if it's true. A senator would go to the work I have been doing and speak to the many people I have talked to, including rural communities. A senator quoted a great deal, then he would come to the same conclusion as I did, that there is a very good way to make peace with a national park in the middle of the country, which is certainly much more, according to the values being followed than in return. And I'll say why. A senator might just celebrate this way. Or is it not what we want, that the Allied take care of a case that's in the spirit of most people out there out there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbbi Óttarsson Proppér later answers. That was not a specific question, but I'm going to respond to the speculations. A senator put it here. On the other hand, many who discuss this matter can testify to the passing of a certain smell, not the whole case, because the matter is enormous. But I was here in my story to the Committee Department 2. My share covered much of its entire case, and even though he was with the smaller communities, I received a chapter of it. I have to admit that I thought that I only had 20 minutes to some point when I wrapped in the talk so that my rural society had received a larger dose, I would have realized that that that that time was a little more space. There are few who have the opportunity to take this whole matter into consideration. But I think it's perfectly normal for the people to look at their own neighborhood, so to speak, within the bill, whether it's individuals, businesses, rural areas, or any type that that the coach might be. So I understand why. I don't want to agree with this, but I don't want to agree with it, because I just think it's normal for people to look at what's next in their own case. But that does not change the fact that if there is a time for such persons, there is one way or another that these features are all linked in a bill. [[The president calls.]] So then I'm likely to feel that a similar line would be in terms of the other aspects of the matter when humans have a firm stand in one part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u20	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion that the nation's highland park bill be referred to the government and the Environment and Resource Minister. The proposal assumes that the rest will be based on the work that has already been done in the existing bill and on it in a number of previous public and government jobs, with the goal of working toward further reconciliation, use, and protection in the highlands. I believe that this work can lead to fundamental changes in park exports in the middle of the country in terms of scope and interaction with other institutions, rural communities and the implementation of regular activities. Then I'd like to thank you. A manager, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, works with the case as the head of the environment and transport committee, confirming that I have made a special effort to work with and identify and recognize different viewpoints. Back to the opinion as a boy. A pilot made an explanation here. Among the other aspects of the European Commission's Environment and Transport Committee, the need to take sides in continuing work is the national boundaries and the protection groups and that, at the end, the decision to take into account the development of rural views on them will be taken. These include traditional crops, fishing, energy processing, and transport processes of electricity, and careful analysis of the longer-term budget and funding programme, just to mention some of the points from the committee's opinion. A number of institutions, individuals, rural groups, public welfare partners, and businesses are now taking part in various projects in the high country. Whether they work together under one hat or more, it is vital that all of these members work at a step in the future. In the opinion of the committee, the greater part shows that it is important to continue in extensive consultation with all the professionals. I believe that their active involvement in it is important and that this work needs to be given more time. I've been watching this talk about national parks in the highlands for a long time, but they haven't reached as many times as much as I have in the last few months. It is important that as many people share in the discussion. We must not forget, too, that we already have a national park in the highlands, a lake earth's park, which we need to nurture and sustain, especially after the scorings that Covid brought. But there is also much we can learn from the activities of a lake earth's park, both in its establishment and in its operations, and in its record of success and failure. To me, it is urgent that discussion about the highlands be objective and based on facts and knowledge, both in nature and in our communities, and in the highlands. It may not be the same all over the country, the same size may not always be suitable for everyone. I have spent many years studying the affairs of the highlands, observing the discussion, and listening to differences in viewpoints about privacy, use, and protection. I'm learning something new all the time, and at the same time, my ideas change. If you want to work with and explain the points specifically drawn into a report using the reference proposal, we will contribute to an informed discussion of different opinions in the highland government. It will also make it easier for all interested persons to understand the best way to work in the vast cooperation that we Iceland's citizens have to have in the highlands, regardless of how far they are going to go. The result of that work should also be given answers to the matters of opinion taken in the court, which the Agency's Council stated on the case to the Council, and I reviewed the 1st. A respectable president. It is not wise to accept the existing national bill. It is urgent that we continue to work on informed discussion and further reconciliation on the quality, use, and protection of the highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for the cooperation of the Commission on this case and others. Appointments from the representatives of the great body of the Committee are in place. Like what? I'm sure a senator has noticed, because she's been in the discussion so far, I'm pretty interested in knowing what this release means, if the government of Iceland is put together from the same categories in the next term and in the current situation. That's exactly what they say here, by permission of a president: In fact, the more part believes that to achieve such reconciliation, - where all the points to be looked out have been counted, the current environmental minister seems to have been done - ◯ Gotta give it more time and it is important to continue working on it in broad consultation with all the professionals. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government, and the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter... My question to why. The senator's opinion is: Does the senator view this is really a commitment to an unchanged government team cooperation, that this is the commitment of the Prosecution to put the matter in a similar direction as it was during this term and that it will be completed on the basis of this new job and taken through the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, the work that goes on is important. It is thought that there are many things that must be done with regard to the administration of the highlands, as I entered my speech. And, of course, after the election, it depends on how a person goes to the next board of directors, who does so. But I also believe that it is inevitable to continue working on the high ground, as I came in. There are many economs working, and they need to work together. There are societies, there are companies, there are a variety of public interest companies, tourism, land transplants, fishing companies - we can go on for a long time. But no matter what happens, whether Lake Earth's park grows, whether it becomes a larger national park or a new national park or a new national park, there must always be cooperation in the highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. But it is possible to draw closer to the vision of the members of the board of directors on the effect of this payment. For review, the Constitution says, by permission of the President: A national park will be built in the central highlands by consultation with a transnational committee, the Environment and Resource Ministry, rurals, protection and outdoor organizations, and other stakeholders. - No warning, just forming a national park. Now the next environmental minister is being led to work on a job that I think is basically the same job that was done during this average season and is now being done, I'm not going to say I'm going to sail, but I'm supplied with the off-limits of the Committee. First, what is it about the warnings given in this committee that were not expected or were not involved in the current work and the basic bill? Because I think it's the same show. However, I would like to ask about the advance of the forward party, which clearly does not appear in the Constitution. It was quite surprising that the head of the advance party, the highest. The secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson spoke on the line at St. Thomas 2 that the guards had been placed there right away at that point. Was it just the misunderstanding of the head of the advance party or a possible miscommunication, which, of course, is always possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I've kept saying in the public assembly, it's not that the work we're working here, at the Generalis Hall, is going to get any reconciliation between us. It is about reconciliation in the community and reconciliation, as well as a common understanding of the work we are dealing with. My opinion of this assignment is given here, as the Constitution states. This project needs to be carried out with a number of sources. My conclusion is that it takes more time to find the most suitable way to cooperate. That's what I said in my speech, that's what I said here to the 1st. And that's what I say again: it takes longer. For good reason, I learned a lot about different assignments in this work, and it has taken a very long time. I think it's very important that partners get the opportunity to enter into different languages. We do more work to explain the different factors listed in the list in the suggestion of the greater part so that as many as possible can understand the possible ways to solve these 8◯10 or 12 items listed and to take an informed view of the most appropriate ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u25	Mr. President. It's amazing that you don't know what you're talking about. A senator cannot answer just questions that are addressed to her. It is not to ask how the senator feels or how the senator wants to carry out his assignments. We are asking: " Where are these superiors whom men claim to have entered the government covenant? Where are they? There is no prerogative in the government covenant. This is a follow-up. Yeah, yeah. A senator may need counsel from a representative of the left green, that may well be. However, I would like to ask the senator, and I hope that the senator now listens and answers those questions. It says here that the committee should continue with the case. Is the advance party kidding the left green when they agree to proceed, or will the advance party continue with this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson answer. I don't know how many times I've said it here today, and I'll say it once again: it's important to continue working with cooperation in the highlands and with all those who work there. The media wants to do that. A greater proportion suggest that the work will continue. I don't know any more than others what exactly comes out of it, what explains, what changes that work will lead to, but I am absolutely convinced that it will lead to changes. Hv. The head of the case can likely confirm that he has, both in the environment and in the transport committee and in conversations with various professionals, through possible means changes that are likely to meet some of the opinions presented to the committee. The points drawn into the subjugation of the majority of the objects have all been developed in a report by the Parapolitan Committee. These factors simply need to be continued. In this way, the work will continue to give us conclusions that are likely to provide the best management of relationships, use and protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u27	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for speaking at last clearly in this matter, finally speaking clearly about the commitment of the forward movement to continue on this matter, continuing with the work being started. It would be either now after putting out a subjugation of this text, or it would be now. It would have been shameful if the party had been doing the doormat or deceiving the team of colleagues, left green, by having some other thoughts on this whole matter. So thank you. A senator for speaking clearly about the fact that the Agency of this park will continue to gain power to do so after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. In answer to this question, a senator wants to reiterate what has been previously said: The advance party wants to work toward reconciliation, use and protection in the highlands, and find the form of administration that may vary from one country to another. What's convenient? Is it the way it is today? Do you need a change? etc. Then I want less of it. During his reign, a senator is to work that way, beginning in the years of 20133/42016, to produce ways to meet various new challenges in the highlands, including those related to them. increased traffic of tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u29	Mr. President. Highland bill is dead. Long live the highland park. It was an e-mail that I received when this bill was received with news. That certainly illustrates the situation, to many people. We were standing here six months ago talking about the establishment of a highland park, i.e. The bill. This became clear from the large number of members of Parliaments who spoke up in 1st. that it's a significant temperature issue. The discussion at the Assembly Hall at that time actually reflected the discussion in the community. All of us senators, especially those of us who are in trouble. The Environment and Transport Committee, immediately received a huge number of written jobs, formal and informal, phone calls, meeting requests, calls for a discussion at the local coffee shop, and encouragement in all possible directions. These talks, phone calls, and meeting requests have been all kinds of things. It shows that the bill is a matter of opinion and that this is a matter of concern to people. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the establishment of a highland park is one of the priorities. It's undisputed. Two former governments had explored grounds for such an assignment and emphasized the added protection in this area. It might be nice to cross that line a little bit. It was 2016 that named on the basis of a national park in the central highlands. It was during the reign of an independent party and a forwarding party. One year later, during the deliberation of an independent party, a restoration, and the Bears'future, there was further talk of the added protection of the central highlands of a government contract. The existing government is then making it very clear in the government covenant that such a national park should be formed. That was how the case continued. As noted in earlier talks, at the beginning of this election period, the Tripolitic Committee was formed by members of the Parliament and members of the local government and the Ministry and commissioned to win this case of the government, and to some extent by the former government, marches. It was so late in 2019, that the committee returned a report and a proposal to serve as a minister. I was on the committee on behalf of a council party in the reverend. It may be quite difficult for a member of the government to take sides on a committee that has under orders not merely the responsibility to investigate a matter but to carry it out, a case in the government covenant of the ruling government. Initially, the commission was to win a bill on the subject. There were some of us, especially from our position of government, who, in turn, opposed us to this. As a result of discussions within the committee as she began, this was changed to a report and afterward the government's bill would follow the events based on such a report. I have only one thing about the committee's work to say. We had extensive talks, the work was beneficial, and I enjoyed much of my own work there. When that work came to an end in the fall of 2019, members of the committee each took a position to see if they wanted to be on the report made by the Committee's work. I took the stand to be with me after starting class committees came to my specific viewpoints and restorations that included my own. to finance a highland national park and how important it would be that the project would be financed properly, where we were based on experience and learning from the management of other national parks and nonviolent regions. Other comments suggested that the sector's sector and sectoral activities, people's movements around the area, different travel distances, rural pals, real consultations, and so on, in the interaction of nature protection and innovation. We've always spoken of the importance of concomitant more efficient nature protection as being used in a responsible sustainable manner by our country's resources. We want to make it possible for the public to enjoy this treasure that Icelandic nature is for outdoors and fishing, as well as to increase their respect for the land and thus contribute to better association. At the same time, we argue with a number of people the need to be built up, to be strengthened around such national parks, to create employment and circumstances for diverse research, to expand the widesight of view, and to connect with people. These are no small goals, but experience shows that they can do so. Experience shows that if you do well, it is a product of such national parks. This has been our guide in this case. Like a number of Icelanders, I have been a traveler in foreign parks and have enjoyed it very much. These factors have often been met, as far as I know and experience as a traveler, and from what I have studied in connection with the work of the Committee, i.e. Natural protection, tourism and the construction of employment. The response of a number of social, rural, tourism, naturalists, and continue to be counted as a failure to reach this location is due to the response of a number of economists in our community, community, and community. The second part of December 2019, the same month that the report was prepared, suggested that the Environment Minister for the Highland Park be included in the Enlightenment. There were more than 70 envelopes, formally as informal, and the reviews have certainly not been reduced after the case went into Congress. As a result, critics, more organized, and the most loud of them were not the least from any political group. Now I'm not saying that there must be any differences in views on matters, much less a big deal like this, certainly not. But there may be a difference between their views and their relationship with the case, i.e. this paradox, which is relevant in the context of today's situation. If only in general about the criticism, which was not at all about the national park, the organizational authority of the rural communities on the edge of the planned park would severely compromise their custody of land within the border of rural society. There were also reports that the rural administrations of smaller rural communities would be too much for them to put more control on, both national and management governments, thus having too much power in comparison with other economists, such as tourism and tourism, which are not necessarily the same stakeholders, as nature and environmental organisations. It may be added that if any were to disagree with the national administration, that would be perhaps. People living in urban areas because we are talking about the national park of the whole nation. However, there are inhabitants in rural areas that are far away, in the most densely populated, who, according to this, have no authority over the land of which they are forming a national park, which is, of course, the partner of the nation. So there were various misunderstandings, and in the process, prominent voices were also made by tourists who felt that their sector or potential for further building up. I can raise more parties. They're the ones who have been right for the uses of the land over the years, and I can. Talk about farmers. The list is endless. There is nothing unusual about the almost endless list of people who have interests, opinions, and wants to promote their affairs. But that is with the discussion. The situation was, then, that when the matter arose for convocation treatment at the end of the year, after being introduced to a meeting for a year's talk, and then into a committee at the beginning of the year, the number of those who had informal relations on the subject continued to increase. In some way, you experienced a number of people becoming experts in the highland park and its affairs. There were people everywhere for the national park. But somehow everyone was discussing the idea of the park they thought was forming, and you realized that there was often a very big gap between them. This was a very vague picture because, as it were, some of the ways had developed a number of discussions in the community. This was a very peculiar picture of what was going on in the minds of many who were interested in the subject, a vague picture. It must be said as it is that if it is intended on behalf of the three independent groups, forwarding classes, and left greens, to explain and make peace with this huge and important matters at this time so that everyone is rowing in the same direction and work together to define what would have to be done better, working together to take everyone's interests into account, working together to find ways to settle different viewpoints, it failed. Maybe that's the big point here. It can also be turned around and said that if the conduct of individual government officials and how they have approached the matter was secret and clear during the election period, there may not be any reason to conclude that the plan was to settle the matter. And we're standing here. I believe that the highest. Environment Ministers have handled the matter faithfully from the beginning, but I also feel that this work could have been better guidance and priorities. There may be us, me and the highest. Environment Minister, do not agree on the terms of the concept. I find it sad to experience that the government is losing this important opportunity, the opportunity to bring order to our highlands into harmony with the peoples and countryside that are most influential. Of course, it's all too big and important to force it on its way. We can all see that from now on. We stand here on the last day of the council, during the last session of this election period, the reign of a left - green, independent party, and a forwarding group, and then, of course, this case will be treated as a function of a function, a function of failure, according to the rules of the government's administration: a national park will be established in the middle of the highlands. Of course, this conclusion is not so that all three categories of government are difficult. The party of the left green is one in that grief. Their friends of the Independence Party and High Priest are more complimentary, and it can be seen long ago that this government covenant promise was not necessarily to be honored. Mr. President. Now it's not that I don't approve of this conclusion, this contraption. According to the Commission's Committee on Environment and Transport, the majority of these figures believe that in recent years the discussion of national parks, both current and previous employment, is an essential part of the process of reconciliation. Then there are things that need more work, and that are just the things that need to be done further. However, it is only natural to label it, in view of the way this terms has been changed, whether the continued cooperation between the three federal parties, which they have declared to have in mind to continue after elections and to have asked for permission to do so, whether there is a reason for those who want to work this matter to progress to believe that it will rather happen to them. This is not an abnormal or bad process in the light of the situation. It is the situation that is now critical and that raises questions about the approach of the three governmental parties in this process. During the time of the government, as the body of Congress has been held in order to win this case, representatives of the government have spoken in crosswords. V.E.G. The Environment Minister has repeatedly declared that, until the last minute, all the differences of viewpoints have been taken into account. The independent party and the forwarding party have repeatedly declared that not all the differences of viewpoints have been taken into account. Mr. President. At the 16 meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee, where the matter was being discussed, a section of the 158 persons who submitted reviews was much more than for the material discussion of the case, efforts to meet viewpoints, discussion of the changes in the case that could create a content of political discussions during the Council treatment. I'm not going to belittle the work of the manager of the case, am I? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppé, rather, I am trying to shed light on the fact of the matter. In view of more of the five members of the committee, more part of the government at Congress and clear production in the government constitution, a senator acted lonely in that work. Hv. Thus, a manager stood with a ball in his arms that would have been better off having been sent much earlier. Now, it may well be that the work I am here describing that I do not recognize, that these conversations, attempts to achieve solidarity as to what would be needed to take the case port, were more common among the representatives of the three administrations. It would be far from being the only case in which the greatest conflict exists among them, and far from being the first language to die in their bosom. Mr. President. The situation is what it is. The task ahead is in my opinion to find ways that all the people of the country can really share in the benefits of the project, of the future affairs of the highlands. We need to keep a focus on the important things, i.e. The protection of the environment and nature, the security of the nation's access to the natural bulbs we have and respect for the knowledge of the inhabitants of the more widely distributed land on their environment. This assignment must be agreed with recognition of the fact that we need energy in our country. In view of the high targets we have of changing energy in the near future in behalf of our environment, we need it. With focus on freedom, simplicity, and nature protection instead of government, foundership and surveillance tendencies, highland park can be the basis for progress, for valuable creations, for the basis of employment creation, if right, in addition to the important nature protection in such a central population park. That must be our way from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson before the talk and the Governing Body in the winter in connection with this matter. There are some points that came to my mind when I listened to the talk. One of them began with the opening words of why. A senator who was assigned to the committee as both of us sat in the first place. In fact, I told myself about that work at the end of it with explanations I have given in other areas. But what surprises me in connection with the deduction proposal of the greater part is that I feel overwhelmed by some message that the work that the committee was working and was supposed to be the basis for this law code just not being done and that it just needs to be done now. I understand that as much as possible. Environment Ministers feel that they have done these things conscientiously during the process. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's appreciation for it after sitting in the steering group and writing under the report. Was there a fundamental difference between the report, the final, and the prime minister? I get it so that a minister thinks he's already done all of this. It seems that somehow it is an attempt to put the matter to sleep and put it in a way that everyone keeps their face. But most of all, what I understand is that the work we both sat on and were to be the foundation of the bill will yet be done on the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have not seen this fundamental difference between the bill and the Commission report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u31	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I'm going to start by saying something like that. paritaprevir In the end, Bergþór Ólason said that he could not see the fundamental difference between the political committee and the bill. I agree with that. But there was quite a lot left open on the committee, where the idea was to assign a minister to somehow take a stand or that the church treatment did so. That's what's lacking. As I cut it off in my speech here, I'm not putting exactly the same understanding as I think it's the highest. The Environment Minister will do when he describes his work on this issue from the time the bill was presented, and so is it natural to do so at the highest level. Minister is informed of the work of the Committee. Like what? A senator can remember that the committee produced individual groups of materials as well as were published in consultation, so that soon the work within the Ministry has been carried out. So early was the bill after the committee returned the report, only two weeks, if I remember correctly. Perhaps there would have been a period of time that would have been better used in serious collaboration and cooperation in addition to the time since the Council had before the work of the Committee. So no, I don't view this as a form of error against the Committee's work, but this is in a way a review of the treatment that was followed by a minister and then a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for the answer. It was not the point of passing a sentence against the committee's work with my question in this counterregument. But I reiterate that it is normal to win a committee like this to leave loose ends with which the Minister of the trade is meant to tie. But I agree, it seems that it has been very unfashionable during that period. I reiterate, though, that I understand that the minister already considers himself to be more and less of all the requirements set out in the contraband. But because. A senator came in on a talk or nonverbal approach - unfortunately, I have used the word "company to many of what was put under that hat - and I remembered a phrase from my speech here. When I refer directly to a certain fieldman without my naming him, I said, "When a layman describes himself as a full-year-old child for consultation and wide peace, something has gone wrong in the process. I sensed it very strong; the meetings were held, the sites were taken, and all right, but responses to the comments did not return to the bill. I asked if the senator had similar perceptions about this part of the discussion, since it seemed very prominent to me in the country. Is it comparable here in the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u33	Mr. President. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. It can often be quite complicated, and people can have a different view of what they are, from the chance they have the opportunity to promote viewpoints to the fact that they have the opportunity to take the conversation and become something and to consider 100% of what people say and change things. Somewhere in between, you have to have such a case, in harmony. I had this experience just like this, with the discussion first of all in the monologue, in talking to us, and in telling us what it should be like. But then I have a measure of sympathy with the consultation or conversation of a number of people coming from all kinds of angles, that if you always take turns and curves, you won't get far away from what each one says. So in these matters, being premeditated is so important, i.e. to determine exactly which factors are largely at odds and, most important, a success. We need to figure out what we really want to get out of this, and we need to reduce our classifications, and we need to set some priorities for what advice it really is. Because I also felt that everything was going downhill. I'm not going to stand here in a chair right now, and I'm going to tell you what the priorities were, but there's a little bit more to understand what's really important and that we're going to land it. That is why there is something else that we need to examine, etc. So the lack of it -- it's my experience at least, and I've been pretty close to this case -- convinces me more than anything else that not all were right in finishing this trial during the term. Because most of us know a lot of work if it's going to happen. In fact, I view the message in the deduction proposal as an excellent guide for direct work during the next term, regardless of the outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u34	Mr. President. We will continue to discuss this bill, the high-national bill, which has taken unexpected turns here during the winter, much better. If we look at the matter in very short terms at the beginning of my speech, this is the simplest way to look at it: It is the formation of a government in late 2017, less than four years ago. The government covenant of that government states that all the government groups, forward groups, independent party, and left green agree to establish a highland park. Then time and that bill will appear here in the winter after work at the Ministry and for consultation, which many observers now complain about, saying that it was almost nothing or that it was a sham because it was not listened to the parties involved, e.g. The local administrations and various bodies that use the highlands. This advice, which is the highest. The minister may have called them, was perhaps more involved in taking a meeting campaign across the country and there giving a lecture over the local people, and was soon gone. Certainly has the highest. Minister hears the concern of locals, but at least He did not listen to his concerns enough because they did not appear on the bill. So where were the other governmental groups during this series of events that took that time, some two years? Where, then, were the other groups of government? Were they listening? Were they concerned about this? They had approved of this government covenant. Did they have a hand to figure out what the bill would look like, that it was guaranteed that there weren't any things they couldn't accept at all? No, people are completely asleep this time. They thought that it was possible to be forced into action even if some people were groping over it. They'll join us, Mr. President. The lead leads are the left - green, peace - loving group that has walked through the country all this terms and is at peace with all that the eye can see. When this big case comes out and the company goes into the field, left, green, grey for irons, they hear some noise, and then one of their leading leaders comes forward in the last decades, sharp. paritaprevir The stone mask of J. Sigfússon son, with all the people behind himself; the victory knoweth, and none of his people shall say a word, and he shall call the company whom he thought to be small and ordinary, a little weeping for my part. Then, when faced with encounters, it becomes clear that this was not a small, crying memory item but a broad array of people, mostly those outside the country, the countryside, the outposting organization, tourism, tourism, farms, all of those who had for decades, and even for centuries the new highlands for land and country, for uses, shelters, fishing, trips. When this vast array showed up in front of a rural green, they bit their coats. But when the Führer this winter, in December, looked back, he saw that the force he thought was behind him was gone, Mr. President. He was gone. Who were those who escaped from the scene? They were members of an independent party and a forwarding party. There was no sign of them. This happened last December, Mr. President. They stepped off the scene when they saw the people of the land protest with a loud voice. These tiny things. Found a masterful gesture that they had made a warning, and fought for one another's backs to mention them, that they were the one, and the other, and the fourth, and the fifth, and the sixth. They did not need warning, but they had not been seen before. It's been an awful moment, Mr. President, in this battle, and the result is here. To get them back on the scene, to try to get these soldiers, these armies, these armies, back into their ranks, and blow to the next battle, they were sewn together here in the caesium field of the rest of the text that I'm going to read: In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and to the Minister of Environment and Resources to submit a new bill based on the work that has been attributed here. They're going to battle again, and they've dated her. The date's after the next election. Then they're going to show up, and those who jumped out of this field are making a promise that they'll be there too. This is a plan, Mr. President, for another attempt to win. This means that the case will continue. If these classes are authorized in the next election and we see a whole pattern of government here, this is the firm promise of these classes, that the matter will be restored immediately to the next winter. Left green, they think they've made sure they're coming to that battle. All the time, during this event, the Central Party has stood up the shift, not ousted from its post, not one day, and stood with the officials who believe that this is all too far in many material, many substances, first and foremost, as we are not going to read here, Mr. President, although I could, that we as a nation can continue using the energy resources in a reasonable and environmental way. Because it's green energy, harnessing water is green energy, and we need to be able to continue using it wisely. Also a geologist, which is also in this area. We cannot take more than one third of the country under a national park that would shut down the possibility, completely shut down the possibility, for further energy efficiency in the region. We can't. So I talk again about these gentlemen, who, in fact, never went to the battle but who intended to participate in it, could be compared to having left green check in the hands of the unfilled. He was signed in the form of the government covenant. An independent group and the forwarding party signed the promise that this would become a reality, a highland park, during the election season. So left green had a signed check in his hand and just had to fill it out. Then, when they wanted to cash in, the others refused to do so. It was considered a serious offense in the past when checkers were out of character and even concerned with some of the laws of law. It was not surprising when people issued a check for which there was no deposit. Of course, it was not to surprise the candidates and the independents that their communities did not want them to be taken away from their organization just by means of a minister or some institution in Reykjavík. Men have been getting a little bit drunk because the power has increased to this capital area, and there is no wonder that the rural governments around the country rose up and protested. Was this to be a surprise to the Agency? Or were they so excited to sit down for ministers in their time, 2017, that they signed it just to sit down at the government table? I'm afraid so, Mr. President. Hope that all of this would go well, perhaps hoping that this idea would survive, hoping that left green would not want that check paid, contained. It's kind of naive, Mr. President, I must say exactly as it is. I think it's childish. In the past, the convention was a band of the country's homes and farmers, and they planned to take the organizational authority of a number of rural communities all around the country. Was it to surprise the independents that a highland park would limit energy efficiency in the region when writing under the 2017 administration covenant? Could they not be fully aware that this would be the result? Or was their desire to sit at the government table stronger than anything else? That's why, Mr. President, it's the divinity of coming right now at the end of the season and claiming to have had so many priors, but still sign this opinion. The forwarding party and the Independence Party sign this opinion that the case will be submitted again, that a minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the subject based on that work. They will proceed. This is the fact of the matter, and there is nothing that humans can run away from it if they want to. This case will return if the government succeeds in the next election. The only way to stop it is to strengthen the Central Party. We've been showing in this case all along that we will not agree with such national parks to cover one third of the country, to prevent any major energy efficiency in the region, to take the organizational authority from the countryside, to hide the minister's overpowering power to control the area near his own. He does not even have to listen to the national administration or to the district. He can, by a rule or by a decision, simply ignore the many decisions these people make. This bill gives him way too much power. I'm not going to read all the reviews that tell us exactly how it's being handled or the reviews that tell exactly how energy efficiency will be shut in the highlands. There are dozens of references to how freedom of choice has been limited in the area of a lakeland park, where the park's rule has blocked the roads and set limits on the park. No, Mr. President, the Central Party is an environmental party, but we do not want the extremes that are so obvious in this bill. The Central Party does not want to tie the hands of future generations to enjoy the green energy this country has to offer, and the Central Party believes that people should be able to travel through the country, with the slightest interference of the government, direction from the government, and abnormal government agencies, as expected in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u35	Mr. President. This list of votes really works out. We're gonna be here a long time. I wanted to explain my vote, which is the way I support this matter. You see, like many people, one of the most important things we can do now for the health of our nation and for our health. I don't care how many clients complained about their lack of communication with policy making. As the committee's work is carried out in a committee's study, it is important to have a consultation with the project, which is, as the Senate knows, a difference between consultation with policy and consultation. Few cases have developed beyond our knowledge and emphasis on public health, and vast numbers of society's members know, know, and know much about these things, which are constantly developing. If we are to succeed, we need to consider these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u36	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. Senator. Even though the matter is not complete for the council, we members of the United States Congress support the matter. Of course, we support public health policy, but it was really shocking to hear from visitors who came before the committee and talked about the complete lack of communication with the Ministry of Health in the development of the bill. Then we're talking about key people's health, such as their local communities, the Union of Iceland, who said that there was no consultation, sports communities, childhood society, etc. We must do better, Mr. President, when heading to the next ten years. We must agree with those who are expected to follow the course. Surely we can do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u37	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The welfare committee and the General for broad support for this important matter. This is a clear, targeted policy to promote and improve human health, one of the most important interests in society, especially the vision that we take into account public health issues in all government planning, which is very important. Here we have a firm foundation and a certain reconciliation, a wide reconciliation, of him. I'd like to justify this vote that it is the common understanding of all people that it is very important to have extensive consultation with those who make public health plans based on this foundation. But now, a respectable president, we have this foundation until 2030, so we have to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u38	A respectable president. I don't make a comment to this bill, and I think it may be justified that it is not expected that senators are using public funds to drive in a campaign. But I think that applies to everything, so I can't support this bill. This is not to prevent Generalis's funds from being used to advertise the Facebook, as some categories are famous for being the largest. Where's that coming from? It comes from public funds too, it is used in a campaign, and much more can be picked up. Either we walk all the way or we don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u39	Mr. President. I'll be happy to pay this reform with great pleasure. It certainly doesn't do the whole world a good thing, doesn't solve all problems, but it's definitely a step of progress and justice to settle the game in terms of the fact that when a sitting senator gets into a campaign, they're just like other candidates in this regard. I'm not talking about when new movements with no money try to compete with the established groups. I encourage everyone. Senators to support the case. This can be referred to as an endpoint in the large improved work that has been done in this respect for the entire ideal period, such as by sharpening travel reimbursement policies, making all information about the payments made to members of Congress available and transparency by new Parliaments and other sources. I think it's a pleasure that we'll finish this case on the end of the council, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u40	Mr. President. As long as the senators have become equal with other recruits who come in, which is very good, and of course, the ministers will be coming and leaving us in the dust. It confirmed the Supreme Court. A secretary of finance the other day during this discussion, so I don't have to add what he said. He claimed that during his next campaign campaign, ministers for their armed duties as ministers would be to answer for their duties as ministers, husking in the Ministers' cars. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u41	President. Here's the best thing. There are other things you would like to add. But this is a very good step, and I want to draw special attention to the things people have been worried about, that it is so hard to distinguish between whether people are doing Congress or ministers talking to voters or not. It's no problem to make that distinction. In a campaign, it is simply spoken to a minister as a candidate. If it is very clear that office work is involved, there is no point in pointing it out and explaining it. The basic rule is that people in a campaign campaign are talking to voters for their next election period. Do not mix our work as members of the council at the time unless it is very obvious. And so it is mainly to the minister: Don't take trips to high school at Snæfellsnes and then show up at Ólafsvík at a campaign meeting and charge them for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u42	A respectable president. I come up here to point out that the change I have is basically about helping those who are committed to securities to borrow money without having to go to payment and without wearing a higher payment burden, in effect, to remain as attached as before, unless they get rid of the insurance if they choose to do so. It's just fair and fair and fair and really one tiny step away from getting people out of the corporate insurance that many people are in and don't want.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u43	President. We bring in agri-gri-gritary to set up a Regulation that requires granting permission to import the seeds of cannabis sativa and that's why I appreciate it. Since it is particularly evident in the bill that it does not care about CBD, I feel that it is important that after we accept these laws, a marine economist and agrienvironmental minister appoints a group that will be exactly referred to CBD and CBD oil. The staff specifically reviews food, drug and drug laws and evaluate the need for the changes to be made to produce and market CBD oil in this country. So I'm celebrating this bill, and even though I had personally chosen to let this bill reach around CBD now, I'm glad that this work is on its way and that it is to stand to work as a solution to this important issue as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u44	A respectable president. They're allowing the culture of industrial disasters based on the work of a health secretary's staff. A agricultural minister will be committed to implementing a seed import directive in order to cultivate industrial quality and, as noted, not a industrial disaster that falls under a narcotic or a drug plant but a crops. Industrial modes can be used for building materials, clothing, paper, food, etc. and I believe that by industrial mode culture, there are more opportunities for agricultural diversity. This can be a good fix, so I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u45	A respectable president. I think this is an important step toward giving more opportunities, both for agriculture and for other areas, as well as for other sectors of society. So I will support this case. But like this government, it's a little tamed, so she doesn't know how to take a big step as soon as I would have liked to see a CBD taken in here. At the same time, I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, who has been a zealous advocate of pushing them forward, is being directed into a channel that I celebrate. I'd like to encourage the highest. Agricultural and agricultural minister and health minister to push it out of the way immediately and not to allow the staff to be assigned to this matter. I support this step, even though I would have liked to see it bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u46	Mr. President. This is a very important thing, but I agree with what's been said here, it's a tiny bit odd that we can buy goods in a store with foreign CBD oil but we don't dare trust Icelandic producers, Icelandic farmers, for the job of producing CBD oil within the country. It would have been good if we had brought it up, as the committee suggested, but sadly, only lacked the courage to do so. But at least we're glad we're running out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u47	A respectable president. The government has succeeded in creating a waiting list for something that no one is interested in making use of. Judgment will wear out, and the result is that humans do not serve out sentences. In view of this, it is understandable to try to cut down the list of Kingdom proclaimers in prison. Social services are a positive and important factor, and it is a good and efficient means that I support them. However, the fact that we are doing two years of heavy decisions in community service without the lawyer's having any opinion of what judgments are involved is a dangerous penalty policy and bad prison politics. This is against the principle that even though I have full respect for the courts in the country, they are the ones who judge the punishment rather than the office of prison. I'll mention in the context of that e.g. is a common penalty for rape in our community of two years in prison. Is this judgment relevant to community service? [[The president calls.]] I'll put a big question mark on it and sit by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u48	A respectable president. I'm going to vote with this case, but I'm going to take on worry and a warning. A senator who spoke before. I find it basically strange that we're deciding what kind of punishment is being put away from waiting lists. I don't think it's the right thing to do. And I'd like to say, too, that we need to get our shit together when it comes to our prison system. It's sub-financed. Here, at times, good talks are given on the importance of helping people to get back into life so that they will not go on the same path. But it needs funding. We live in a community where we have to care for certain responsibilities. This means that at times we have to serve and care for people whom society is not particularly fond of, perhaps even outright ill. But it is our responsibility. You need to stop procrastinating this party in general. This bill is a characteristic of procreation, which I make a note of, but I'm on the case because I think it's an improvement, at least for now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u49	Mr. President. The Bishop's office is Iceland's oldest remaining office, founded at the General Assembly of 1056. The term church office has a special meaning based on its theology and is church. That's what this is all about. Like the culture of every community, history and tradition are precious possessions. By canceling the term diocese's office and converting it to the bishop's ◯ job, it no longer has the strength the bishop's office has had in the Church, from the early church, and in the context of Iceland for over 1,000 years. Mr. President. Because of their national history and the responsibility of the General Assembly since Christianity, it is important that the office of a state church bishop be legally guaranteed. Based on this, 2 mg is added here. 10th par. the bill to the bishop of the Church's highest office. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u50	A respectable president. This adjustment implies that in the laws of the State Church, the concept of office, official, content, is of any value other than that of other Icelandic legislation. I view the church as self-imposed what it calls its government to be the law changed, to which the foxes are cut, to do the act, and to be confused about terms that in this one law, the concept of government has a different legal value than in other legislation. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u51	Mr. President. This is a very important modification motion. paritaprevir Birgir Þráninsson að Þórarinsson. The Bishop's office is the oldest public office ever held in Iceland. About 1,000 years ago, the Bishop received his office office from the General Assembly. By the conversion of 2019, the law of the State code of 2019, the law replaced it with a force of government. In this way the bishop of Iceland no longer held office but did a job. It was a mistake, and it is the responsibility of the Generals to correct them, to keep them in mind cultural and ecclesiastical contexts. It should be noted that the matter has nothing to do with serene matters. I encourage the Senate to support this crucial adjustment arrangement. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, is a guard of our history and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u52	A respectable president. I just wanted to come and point out the irony in complaining about the fact that these adjustments are some sort of fallacy at the time of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u53	Mr. President. Some years ago, the council had a bill about changing the surgeon's office. One of the suggestions was that office would no longer be spoken of. A country surgeon was to be replaced by an institution called surgeon and People Health. Then came one of the then members of the Board of Directors, Mörður Árnason, and reminded them that since 1760 the governor's office had worked, and it must have been worth something to protect that inheritance. The bishop's office has been much longer, much longer, than a surgeon's office. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to protect only that culture, no matter what the view of religion may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u54	Mr. President. It's a great deal we'll vote on here. However, I find more useful in the changes made by this committee to follow when the committee uses the journey, to recall a two - year - old error that took place in the treatment of the greater part of the General Assembly on mail laws, against all reason, that it would be the same price for shipments as a package, up to 10 pounds [10 kg] of land, regardless of actual cost, which was also laid down in the law so that it was paradoxed. This was contrary to the interest of the mail, which has been driven by massive losses since, contrary to the interests of taxpayers, and across the interest of a number of companies working on this market throughout the country with fine results. Common sense lived a good life until the State got into this position two years ago. Now this is being fixed, restored, so that the price for all the country is worth just about a delivery of up to 50 grams. [[The president calls.]] However, I would like to say one thing: A two - year - old pregnancy period during adjustments to things repeatedly criticized by any partner is too long. We have to do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u55	A respectable president. I want to keep all aspects of my speech open. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson I'm glad that this adjustment is going through now that turns to the daily requirement that the same price is worth up to 10 pounds [10 kg] across the country. However, there is another factor to follow in the processing of this case; the suggestion that the Committee shall give Ministers the start of a very thoughtful and profound analysis of the ways in which we can achieve an increase in practical and better service in the mail environment. I just want to be glad that it's okay and look forward to the work that's planned at the end of October rather than the end of November 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u56	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a case that I think is very important. Important work has been done around the management of the environment and transport committee, and the matter is actually being developed by means of changes made by the Commission. First of all, the administration and monitoring of mail services is being carried out by the post-mail and telecommunications agency to the Agency. That's the subject of the bill. The Commission's declarations add to the analysis of opportunities for postal improvement and the change of the registration of services. When all of this is combined, I believe that the aim of a mail law to ensure good mail service across the country and a natural competitive environment can be achieved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u57	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come up here to explain what this is all about. The payment of the change form was expected to result in a reimbursement of duets on September 1. During further notice, the process to be started in the European Commission and then at the post and communications agency, or the Office, was found to take longer. So this proposal is made to postpone the decision so that a registration will take effect no later than November 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u58	Mr. President. I would like to mention in this context, and should have been prepared for the vote, that the bill includes the legalization of the regulations of the four European Parliament and the Council. As shown in the report on the bill, the directives have not been recorded in the EEA Convention. Nevertheless, the bill is legalized by the regulations it contains. What I would like to point to here, by permission of the president, is what the committee's list says: So the more part is also directed to the Ministry to monitor the progress of the projects in that field and respond if necessary, such as delaying the implementation of the law, which... [[For example, you're on the next case.]] Am I on the next case? You see, you rarely show up on time. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I was pushed here to the side room, and I was going to rush up under the next case, thinking that I was missing out on a vote. I'll just come up again, but you've had the smell of what happens then. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u59	Mr. President. Here I come to discuss what I thought I was here for just moments before I stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u60	And refer to what I said before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u61	And I refer to what I said before, right? The bill includes the legalisation of the four regulations of the European Parliament and the Council. As shown in the report on the bill, the directives have not been recorded in the EEA Convention. Nevertheless, the bill is legalized by the regulations it contains. What I would like to draw special attention to here is what the Committee called a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, by permission of presidents: So the more part is also directed to the Ministry to monitor the progress of the initiatives in that field and to respond if necessary, such as a delay in the implementation of the law now January 1, 20203, to ensure that during the recording of the products in the EEA contract, there will be no costly cost for European companies, rural and consumers until the preparation of the Regulation is undertaken. I wanted to keep this up at the start of that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u62	Mr. President. A round economy is essential to success in climate and, in fact, to the development of the world's communities, to the near and distant future. New laws on the economy in Iceland are good news and evidence of vision. Renewing and recycling as everything in this country of what falls on us humans is complex. It requires money and responsibility for all; governments, institutions, companies, and the public. This is true whether it is organic waste or for example. the plastic that really threatens living things so much. Let's all join in on one dark yes to this excellent bill and celebrate it. I'll say yes to the circuit economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u63	Mr. President. The Central Party rejoices at the change of policy here, that the fall from the legal union of rural society. This unscrupulous, unscrupulous campaign against the smaller communities and their own self - government has been collapsed. It is not that rural animals are bound to a number of people. Nor is it that fractions in rural service are confined to smaller rural areas rather than larger ones. It is not that sustainable rural society will be considered to be bound to its size and will be sufficient to compare the financial status of the various rural areas with the city of Reykjavík. A minister is in the bill given great authority to define requirements for smaller rural society and for sustainability and services, but not for the larger. Therefore, the Central Party will support the adjustment but will sit by the rest of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u64	Mr President, the Consequences will support the case. It is very disappointing, however, that the management forces have struggled to keep a minimum number of rural communities, such as the European Union had come to the conclusion that there is good evidence: first, the right of citizens to serve, secondly, management, and most least competitiveness of rural society because, after a single public image, the tiny rural communities will be confined to the borders of other rural communities without providing any service and sending their people there. And this, of course, is especially difficult when the State treats its societies in such a way that it does not pay even for what is paid for the government's services.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u65	A respectable president. Here we vote for a bill, which is part of following General No. 21/150, on a policy-making programme in rural affairs for 2019-52033, particularly the minimum population population population. The bill has certainly taken several changes in the management of the environment and transport committee, and it is based on conversations with the clients and my ideas of rural society in a different way to the target than the one suggested. I think it's quite a good stage on the path set out in the resolution we agreed on at the last council. This proposal is based on my community's ideas and not entirely following them. But about this, there seems to be quite a relief among rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u66	Mr. President. The legalization of carbon neutralisation by the year 2040 is a very important and good step in the fight against the climate, and I support this case, and so does the Group of Groups. However, it would have had to be more ambitious, and it could have used the trip here and a valid goal for the year 2030. This is followed by reviews and I want to point to the legalization of destination targets in Finland, which meet the target for 2035 and Norway, where the target target is set in 2030. The legalization of destinations is an example of more bold action and will than we can see here. We need ambitious goals in the battle against climate change, and measures and goals need to be timed and full - time, in another good language that is without carbon 2040.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u67	A respectable president. It is of particular interest to this issue that its objective is to change laws nine years after the Law was given without any legal intervention. A report in this matter of Congress and in a committee study clearly shows how vague this phenomenon, a lack of carbon components, is. It appears to refer to government - responsible emissions, but other emissions, such as e.g., are being attributed to other emissions. ... fromtheextremeland. I wondered, " Wouldn't it have been better to define reasonably what non-carbons mean before accepting a policy to that end? ' You see, the issue remains here, and it is perfectly unclear where the goal leads us to which the council intends to approve with this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u68	Mr. President. In fact, lack of carbon is the duty of every society in the world if it is to be done well. Total zero emissions, which is, yes, a definition of what we're talking about, are achieved by continuous reduction of greenhouse gases emissions by approximately for the next 20 years and at the same time, to bind carbon by all means available. This bill will bind Iceland's carbon sharelessness no later than 2040 and it will succeed in steps that we can see only in part, including due to fleets in Norway and Europe as operations develop and technology launches. This is a realistic, ambitious plan in relation to our country. This is a step that needs to be rushed, and if we do so, it is in the hands of many, including many. The generalis, and I encourage the giddy-s here as I did before.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u69	Mr. President. Here's a suggestion to establish a fine line from the government's collaborative declaration for a non-carbonization of 2040. It is good to have this law in order to know where to go, but of course, it would have been normal to legalize it for the first year of the government rather than the last year, especially since the year 2040 is no longer the ambitious year when the policy was placed on 2017. Finland Notes e.g. to capture the non-carbon share of 2035 and Norway 2030. Therefore, it is a task for the next government to show more ambition because this government is already legally establishing out - of - date ambitions. I then remind myself of the changes I've made in this matter of tying into law 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, which is not what science calls for but what the government claims to be doing. [[The president calls.]] It is again a declared policy of the government, and it would be normal to see it in the law to make it clear that there was really a policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u70	Mr. President. I'm going to vote on this case, and the changes in the more part end up in an agreement on its payment in this way. However, I have to guess that regardless of what the goals are, there is something strange in my mind to establish such goals, notably detailed goals, simply because they are legally establishing some conclusion that depends on many uncertainty factors. On the law's part, there should be some rules of conduct, bans, or something related to doing or something like that, but goals, not in law texts, but in the exact definitions, conceditions, or such. But in view of the fact that this is part of an agreement on payment, I support it, and I think that no one harms any of these things except that it does not seem like such a beautiful legal arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u71	Mr. President. This is a bill for reducing production and valuables in Iceland, the growing fees and taxes that are worst affected by the income industry, the consumer recession bill, and thus a lower quality of life in Iceland and a bill that weakens Iceland's competitiveness. The more produced in Iceland, the better for climate. Thus, the bill damages the world's climate targets, damages the economy and the country's standard of living, and is now due to legalize these goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u72	Mr. President. The report suggests that the target of a 5-5% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is set up, as stated in the Committee on Environment and Transport, to be Iceland's policy. The design of the light table suggests that the government did not rely on establishing its own goals as Iceland's independent objective but prefers to wait for results from the European Union, where it is expected to obtain a lower percentage share. Dedicating these changes highlights the ambitious lack of the government's regard for climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u73	A respectable president. When's the nation of carbons out? Is it when its import is without emissions or is it when everything it produces is non-expiration? These questions are not answered in this matter of Congress, and I can see no better than that the purpose of this law, if it is to be brought into law, could have an impact on the energy efficiency of the operation from Iceland to countries where coal will be used in energy production.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u74	A respectable president. I'd like to point out the change that comes in here as an additional 1. g., where you type: ▪ If the government's climate targets are to be updated, adjustments should be made in accordance. This is, in effect, to prepare the law, so to speak, to follow government policy rather than vice versa. I agree with the views presented here, that there would be a better way for such goals to be not legalized. Rather, it would be out of government policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u75	A respectable president. Here is an important subject that looks forward to the future. The objective of this bill is to improve the effectiveness of the public and increased transparency, ensure safe signal translucency to provide information, data to people in the country. We are also working to ensure safety, including delivery security, and the committee has considered the matter and made important changes, including the following: to personal security, the security of personal information. This bill is about the effect of the publication of data that we are used to in our society to do by means of letters and technology is now changing all our existence in this respect. This is a matter of great importance to the future, but changes are expected to take place in stages until 2025. I want to make it known that the state has in connection with the processing of this case guaranteed full possession of the identity, which is extremely important as access to the mailbox.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u76	President. I come up here to celebrate the last words. Minister of the state's holding of identity in full possession. We in the left motion have provided that condition in the processing of this case. I personally have provided a bill for the state to publish a reliable official electronic ID, so I am very happy that it is in port.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u77	Mr. President. The law here is to be passed on in a permanent way to provide public agency, Iceland's Secret Bank, a wide range of authority to place in currency trades. A minister's consent is required, but as the bill assumes, it is not necessary to accept the approval of the Generalist. The action of legalizing such a permanent source has a moving effect on a foreign investment that will cost us dearly because foreign investments are important for the development and prosperity of the country. Such control and control, which are offered here, should be avoided.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u78	A respectable president. We're probably taking one of the biggest steps toward the central control for a very long time. Instead of choosing international cooperation and business freedoms to ensure stability, the government decides to choose a head and at the same time bind permanent and very broad licenses for government law without ever having it brought up for discussion and payment here at the council. In my opinion, and clearly, the employment and business organisations, these are bad messages for the job life that need room, especially now, to run faster and grow faster in order to promote economic prosperity and value. This is particularly painful for innovation and starters and the message we've been sending that the Fourth Support will make mental and innovations secure. It is particularly painful for the sector when the message is being sent that we may use the seas here. [[The president calls.]] So this is, in my opinion, a sad message from the government to professional life. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u79	Mr. President. The left motion supports this bill. The changes proposed in the management of the bill are about to deal with the concerns that occurred during the progress of the bill, i.e. the attendance of the council was too small. That is, it is vital, and to the future it is important to us. The points taken on the bill are a fresh memory to all of us. We have recently had to use such oceans. It is specifically stated in a committee program with the bill that they are being treated in total distress, in consultation with the minister and in consultation with the council. That can't be clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u80	A respectable president. For decades, we have had legal authority to use the caution tools used in currency. If we look back on our time even further, perhaps back to the middle of the last century, we will surely have evidence that such seas were used when people did not trust to address the underlying economic problems. None of these are available for distribution in this case. It is simply a matter of ensuring that in the law there are clear rules, as we have always had - in fact, as we had in the financial collapse, where Congress had to tighten the rules - in order to protect homes, defend business management, protect national interests if the serious circumstances arise in the country of currency crisis. [[The president calls.]] Nothing like that is being proclaimed. It is a permanent setting. It is all too much to say that the government intends to use such devices. On the contrary, we've been cutting down and collecting currency for many of the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u81	Mr. President. We'll talk about the votes and vote on them. A number of changes have been made to the bill originally submitted, and they are most if not all are greatly improved. But I have reasons for two regulations in the law, i.e. to assist with the voter, and to give a talk about it. The assistant will be left out by no condition, according to the bill, and thus will open the possibility of misuse of the voting rights. You have to realize what this is all about. Everything is under the prerequisite view that it is important for all to take advantage of their right to vote. It is the original word, and it certainly is a good goal. But it's opening up a massive risk of misuse of the voting rights. It's quite simple to fix. These two provisions must be corrected, and such correction would in no way impair any human's right to vote in general elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u82	President. It's a good thing that's a lot of convergence to finish. We're uniting four courses of elections, making them one, improving the rules, increasing the right of voters to vote and ensuring that further improvements can be made reflecting elections for the Council, elections, elections, national votes and district elections. This will be a complete approach to improving performance and updates. For an equation, what was left over, there will be a motion that will be paid to vote, so that we can make a complete difference in these changes. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiçin mentioned earlier, and we were having a discussion about yesterday, I was wrong about one thing I want to correct. This change was not achieved with regard to assistance, the wording. This is, therefore, an opener source that certainly was on target and submitted and approved. [[The president calls.]] But their resistance eventually led them to play out their desire for the e - mail election rather than to interfere with the help. [[The president calls.]] Thus, the help remains as the aim was for those who are disabled - not just those who are disabled because of vision impairment or because their hand is unusable but generally disabled - to have greater access and opportunity to choose that others would not. [[The president calls.]] For example, if deaf ones do not have the best - trusted one, who may also be able to promote the protection of elections, they may not receive this assistance at an elected location. [[The president calls.]] Today, clients can go to this dormitory and sit in charge of people, so there's no doubt about it. [[The president calls.]] We'll be watching this, getting a report to the Generals to review the procedure after the district election. [[President (GBr.: The president prays. Councilmen showing respect for the deadlines. They have one minute.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u83	President. I'd like to mention here two adjustment proposals that we have. On the one hand, it's a suggestion from me that you don't have to file a vote, that it's just taken off, that people will keep their votes if they have Icelandic citizenship. On the other hand, it is a joint change proposal, from me, the restoration and the Convergence, that the number of equations will be increased and that the exchange of the equations will not depend on a double difference between votes so that the exchange will be equal to that of one. This is a clear democratic case, and I hope for support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u84	A respectable president. We're here paying a vote on the election bill which is a very important matter. It combines the terms of elections, whether for the General or for the United States Government or for Presidential elections. Significant changes in the project were made on the bill as it was observed. The report was to be rather careful about changing, focusing primarily on the changes in good solidarity, perhaps taking less steps. However, I would especially like to draw attention to the fact that the main cause of dissension by members of the Committee on Change was the availability of extra-corporal law, as well as the availability of persons who may have difficulty voting themselves and needing assistance at an elected site. [[The president calls.]] However, there are provisional regulations, meaning that this issue will be examined in a better way next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u85	A respectable president. This is a good thing, and it helps to ensure that the voters' will succeed. Many of these are being moved to modern times and respond to the local community as it has become. This case has been done very well with the committee, and in great agreement, I especially want to thank Þór Ólafsson for his fine work. We, however, are in a mortal position to fix one thing at a time. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson made an account earlier, and then I'm talking about a change of motion on a threshing floor. 1637 who, with a simple change, aim to ensure equality of the rules between classes. This is, in fact, just a democratic fundamental case that the Allied Congress must see its own worth in securing and I expect a body of Congress to support this transition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u86	A respectable president. I may say goodbye here because the middle class is making a comment about the fact that disabled people receive unbecoming assistance at the polls, as if they were suspicious of something. It may be right to remind you that we do not have human rights. We do not agree that disabled people will be able to enjoy society to the same extent that all other people do. This presentation comes from the back of some ancient figure, which we are fortunately the majority of them are grown up. Happily, disabled people who arrive in their polls do not have to beg them from the superior authorities to accept their legal rights, as do all other people. Whether we are disabled or not, we have no right to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u87	Mr. President. I am so glad that we have reached the point where an overall review of all the laws on general elections in this country is about to become a reality. This brings up the comments and complaints as election campaign campaigns for the past few years, has come from our own national ethic, from the World Book Committee, from the European Security and Cooperation Agency, and from other Member States. It's a long time for these improvements. I am especially happy that we are now going to treat disabled people with all due respect when it comes to the sacred right of elections. I approach the important thing, since it is more important for disabled persons to be treated with full respect, and when it comes to the sacred rights of the term, they have unscrupulous full - time human rights. This is more of a matter for me than a question of possible abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u88	A respectable president. I'm here to remind the World Congress that there's a little bit of a modification proposal here that's a paraphrase but that would give voters in Iceland some justice that's been seriously missing. We know the story of conflicting votes in this country. The equal value of votes has never been reached in the election, as the goal of the proposal is to settle the game there. The fundamental thing is, fundamental requirement, fundamental political, justice, human rights, and I strongly encourage senators to support this proposal, thus defending the human rights of the people of the country, because they are the ones under these circumstances. It's human rights. I think it'll be interesting for the public in the country to see how line lines are in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u89	President. I want to explain this. I know it's very difficult to understand, when change plans come from me to the council like this, what exactly is being chosen for. I promise you, I'm not going to slip an equation of votes in there because everyone thinks they should choose with my changing proposal now. This, however, is a modification proposal for a change. This is an arrangement to ensure the end of Congress. The central category received an opportunity for the mail election to be released, so this is an adjustment to the big change proposal, followed by another adjustment that will also be made by the middle class. All you know is that the Congress concluded agreements are at hand, but this is about taking out a post-election vote and men only follow their natural convictions with it, but to make sure it's over and done here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u90	Mr. President. I'm going to say the word. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of the importance of respecting the rights of disabled people. Of course, we should respect the rights of all the voters of the country. Of course, among those rights, their votes are equal. This is merely a suggestion to match at least the position of the individual council in elections. I can't believe it. A senator who is suffering from experience and has been here the longest human beings would not agree with me on that. With this simple adjustment, we must prevent class members from getting extras at the expense of those with two or three percentages more closely. Another is hypocrisy when people speak of respect for voters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u91	A respectable president. The equal importance of votes is not only to support valuable democracy and to ensure the equal rights of the citizens, regardless of their economic status, gender, ethnic background, or residence. It is also part of improving fellow feeling, understanding, and justice in the community. We do not build a just and fair society by maintaining a division in the election system as we do today. It seems to me that the greater part, the government groups, and the Central Party is going to maintain it. This is wrong. One individual, one vote - it is not only a requirement in modern society but also a large and rich human rights requirement. That is why I will normally pay my vote and continue fighting for this for justice's sake.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u92	President. The equal value of votes has not been reached at council elections in this country. The purpose of this suggestion is simply to correct it, to achieve the goal of altering an evil story, a story that has not served the aims of a country's voters, a story that has not served the goals of anyone except those who want to maintain a false power ratio. This does not serve the aims of an Icelandic nation. It's a fundamental matter, and it's fundamental political to fix it because it's a justice thing. This is a fair case for the people of Iceland, for the peoples of the country. I encourage Congress to respect the true justice and to vote for this adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u93	Mr. President. I support these articles, of course, but because they exist here as adjustments were made in the past, I believe that it was right to appear, in fact, that it was. In terms of the ambitious work that the General took the lead in triggering 2018, a full reexamination of all votes in the country, there was never to be anything but a legal and econominal agreement. - Never was. The chairman of the Conspiracy withdraws these comments or at least make me sound while I'm talking. [[Justice.]] It never stood to take political debates, such as the district of the country, the regulations of the Constitutions, or the terms of those items, into those jobs, as they were a professionally subject to the involvement of those involved, national politics, rural society, the General Assembly, and others. I wish the political parties of the country good luck taking it for reevaluating election law, voter and constitution. [[The president calls.]] But based on the way things have worked out, some water may flow to the sea before that work is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u94	Mr. President. This whole re-examination of election laws is based on a lot of professional work, and the case was carefully discussed by a board of administrations and monitoring committee. One step forward in the bill is an increase in the availability of foreign elections for Icelanders. After a professional review of the administration and monitoring committees, where everyone recommended that we keep these regulations, last night it was decided to negotiate with the central kickback forces, who, like the Trustast of all countries, find mail elections for reasons. So we're here with an adjustment proposal to resolve this progress from the bill. This is a sad conclusion that shows how Congress contracts can produce bad results.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u95	Mr. President. The point we're paying a vote on the decision that the Central Party could support this bill. It had been very carefully considered how to misuse mail elections and has nothing to do with repetitious or liberalness. Thus, the Pirate Society claims that it has some exclusive right to liberality and vision, which is a big misunderstanding, and which is repeated in matters that they either support or do not support. I'll lead all of that home. But this point we fought for made it possible for us to support this matter, and that is good. I thank the Chairman of the Committee, what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, for his success in conforming the views of the committee and leading her work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u96	President. As noted in the conference at the council Hall, when it comes to access, as well as postal elections, the middle class members opposed the matter. These are things that really matter about baseline: What are we going to put up? Is it possible to have a vote? When it comes to disabled persons, we are going to place a access to choosing a higher than potential risk of confidentiality or to impose a vote. It's already legal that the county can come to an espionage, etc. to ensure further bioavailability, although it may involve the absence of secrets. We did the same thing in Covid last summer, then people chose through a window. It wasn't a secret election to the voters, but we decided that it was more important that people might choose. The bill pointed out that this was done abroad, but people need to register, receive their vote, and are therefore enrolled and verified their personal information. Then people send out their votes, as if it were a sub-election bill. So these requirements have been met. So we even added, as with the electronic elections, that when people choose, they can choose again so that they are not forced to be forced, they have to sit over the person for a very long time, so they need an overabundant tape to try to cheat in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then the latest vote would apply, and it's on the bill. Still, they wanted to take it out, and it's sitting. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, nothing would have happened, and all this work would have been done. We're gonna make it this way, but I'm sorry, just like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u97	President. I was going to explain my vote when these articles are voted. They discuss exactly what I was pointing out. I suggested a few articles in the law that I am living on with my work and career at elections. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came up here and wanted to paint my notes in a most unconventional color, and he heard me say so by the cheer squad. He had an unacceptable interpretation of my language. There's nothing strange about that. A senator uses every opportunity to challenge such undeservedly, which best describes his cause. My tips did not work on anything that may have been suggested to restrict anyone's right to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u98	President. This is the last joint in my transition, in which, prior to the words, ◯ and the sealing of substitution at 2 mgr. 97. g. come on, moody. . i.e. that when pooled and held in place, it makes sure that everything is taken in place, that the sufficiency data are properly handled and the like. It's just really simple quality control stuff. It's quite remarkable that there's red in here on such an incredibly simple campaign security issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u99	V.E.G. President. It's a good thing to do. What a joy it was for them to do so! The budget is to jump out of this traditional budget and deal with this matter, with a number of smells. This is mainly a formal structure for the administration and management of the government's domains for employment purposes, with emphasis on, as clearly required, transparency, objective, equality and practicality. We've got some quality and professional work to do here. This is a good business which contributes to the more practical use and protection as soon as sustainable use of long-term and enhanced valuables.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u100	Mr. President. Firefighters are exposed to a work environment that has been proved scientificly to increase the risk of ill health. The incidence of cancer among firefighters has increased in recent years, and many studies have shown that there is an association between firemen working and their increased incidence of cancer. Despite their high safety and better fire - fire management equipment, they never have a chance to protect themselves completely from the smoke - generated on fire. It is long time for disease, such as cancer, to be recognized by firemen. Here it is suggested that in a Regulation the types of cancer should be identified as the benefits of professional disease of firefighters. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u101	Mr. President. I don't think that's a good idea. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, to the firemen. On the other hand, the suggestion goes contrary to the basic thinking that this bill has and the thinking that is behind this article. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u102	Mr. President. It is true that firefighters are among the many employees who live under working conditions that can lead to disease. But on this note, in the 5th paragraph. is simply said, by permission of the president: The Regulation shall state more details about the benefits of employment diseases. It is impossible to name just one class when we have a number of classes that live in similar circumstances. It was discussed with hospital transporters, referred to in a committee program. But we can't take one class into the law and leave all other classes behind for the Minister's Regulation. So I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u103	A respectable president. These are basic changes in the quality and composition of child protection committees. The bill includes the rest of the bill. That the political orders of the Child Welfare Committee will be laid down. Thus, this is the greatest change ever made in recent decades. This bill is also part of a major change in the system designed to provide opportunities for integrating services provided for children. This is a response to the criticism that has been on the environment of children's rights in this country for many years and the importance of bringing it to the modern sense of child rights. I hope we all agree to finish it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u104	Mr. President. This is certainly a good case for which we vote now. We'll back that up. This is in the back order of several issues involving the activities of young people, integration, all kinds of structural changes. There's only one good thing to say. I say for my parts and for ours in Reunion that it would have been good if at the same time the government had been able to go into a wonderful improvement in the environment that creates the waiting lists for children and the parents of children to wait for this service. I trust that it will be among the priorities of the next government. But we support this, it's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u105	Mr. President. The bill on this subject is elected in context of the other child issues that have been called, which we've been discussing in the past few months here at the council. Here are some changes in child protection laws that are important to follow the changes that have already been made to other laws. However, it is important to note that there is no overall review of the Child Protection Act, that part of it is going to be conducted, and that the work is already going to be done in the Ministry of Social Children and Children, and that it is important to have it done as early as possible. But how happy we are that we will go through these changes, putting a point behind the great work that has been done in these terms during the season of election!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u106	A respectable president. I agree that this is a good thing to discuss and all its matters, and we've resolved in the past. However, I was on the lookout for this case from a welfare committee, and I've been all along, making child - welfare committees too systemless and going too far away from the politicians, as was said earlier, putting down the political child protection committees and making this a great deal of districts. I think it's a risk to do so, and so I have the warning on this matter, but in other ways I support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u107	Mr. President. This is good. I'm particularly happy that the districts are just expanding and making the committees more professional. A member of the seminar class has discovered how different treatments can be between rural members in such important and overexcited sensitive matters. Of course, it's unacceptable that there is no complete equality between rural society and the treatment of children and children, so I think it is totally beneficial to extend the districts and to be more professional in these committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u108	Madam President. This situation has caused tremendous reactions and for good reason. This suggested that a large portion of the land be taken under democratic rule. It was assumed that much of the country would be shut down to a greater or lesser extent for Icelanders, to put limits and barriers on how the people could enjoy the vastly highlands of Iceland. Icelanders already have almost all as one great respect for the highlands and feel that it is their duty to treat the land properly, and that has been the case. But with the bill on the establishment of a highland park, it was suggested that people could not be trusted to direct the actions of this country in a democratic way, even without permission, cannot be trusted to go through it. This bill would have prevented the production and transport of cleaner environmental renewable energy and would hardly be good for the world regarding the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But what about the rest of Iceland, the parts falling out of the park? Aren't they big enough, moving all the energy in there? Or should it simply be said that this is good for the production of environmental energy in Iceland and say, "We're not going to do more for the world in that? Whether foreign or domestic tourists are outside the highlands, do most of the country's most widely known and widespread tourist attractions move all the pressure there? We need to protect the whole country as much as possible, but we do not turn it all into a park. That is why we choose certain places and clearly explain how we will protect them and why. Bear, for example. A company of waters, and the hookers south of Langjölkul, which is fairer than the land. No doubt, however, there is a global natural beauty division, and I believe that rich melons, in which there is a constant problem south of Langjölkul, may still compete with Moy Lake Company; yet, we have not made a Mý water squad all the way into a national park. Sunn Longjokuls is an opportunity to activate environmentally by means of a so-called Hagwater activation. This efficiency is not only environmentally related to the origin of energy as renewable energy but also to improve the environment of lagoon formation, as would be the restoration of natural conditions, closer to what existed there during the past century when vegetation disappeared to a large extent, resulting in a steady rise in emissions far down to the southern countryside since then. Therefore, we should want to ban them, but not perform, e.g. Soyage of the same definition? In fact, there are people in the lake squad. There people live and work, and visitors arrive, but they seem to be almost a thorn in the eyes of many of those who today call themselves environmentalists. So I disagree completely. Man plays a role in nature, and not just that, but he gives more meaning to nature and the landscape. So we need to protect the whole country, set out a territory to protect each area in its own way, not to take much of Iceland from democratic control and to become a systematic and medium-sized device, which is, in large measure, shut down to the citizens of the country. Man is part of nature, though his recent political outlook may at times be viewed as a foreign body, something that is a problem, and does not belong. With such attitudes, this bill leads to the cold systemization of the highlands, where democratic views are no longer to be controlled, as we now see the attitude in the preparation of this matter. Although others were indicated, they were not prepared in a democratic way. How was the introduction at the time of the highest. A minister of the environment went through the country and introduced his ideas and received great criticism, many tips on what was not right, even correction of his language? What was the response? V.E.G. The minister and the government just claimed to disagree, and that was the end of it. It did not stand to work with different viewpoints, as some members of the greater body claim now after they realize that the matter is lost. It never stood to work with a different point of view, just like a point of view, the views that the Government's policy for the establishment of a highland park as if it had been prepared by the so - called tripolitan committee where everyone agreed except the council representative who told himself about work so much that the work that has been done in preparing this bill does not prove good about the rest of the day when it is suggested that the case be referred back to a minister so that it can then return to the council that after election, the same matter, based on the same criteria. Remember, not only did representatives of all classes agree but the Central Party of the Parapolitan Commission agreed on this matter, the government accepted the case and the members of the General Assembly agreed on it. It was not until we, members of the Central Party, asked questions, and discussion began about content, not the presence of doubt. Why, though, did they doubt? Their primary doubts were because they were afraid of being punished in the election. We've heard that from some source. The members of the board when we members of the Central Party are discussing some matter. They then feel that what matters is whether they think the matter is likely to be popular or not. They seem to have no idea that there are groups that represent what they really believe in or represent the real content of the matter and what their real influence is. So it was because of the middle party's struggle that representatives of the greater part began to fear that they would be punished for what they had to do, not because they had seen in their plans for a highland park. Now, they're going to continue their plans to resume where they left off, they just need a break during elections so they don't have to render an account to voters or try to minimize it, hope that the voters will forget it. But at the end of the election, they intend to proceed in the way suggested. They expect to be elected without any consideration of what they have been doing and what their real opinions are. Mr. President. There are countless things in this matter that raise anxiety in many areas, and this is illustrated in an unusually large number of accounts about this matter, a much more diverse narrative, with far greater things being negative and pointing to the many flaws of this matter. It is not even that if this case had been approved, it would have been finished and they knew what they had. It was to prepare the soil to go further, progressively further, without the public's opportunity to express their own opinion, let alone the choice of progress. This was to be done, e.g. by hiding the Environment Minister almost totalitarian authority over the development and growth of this park, by hiding the Minister the Regulation to expand the national park if he wanted, at peace-declaring other areas, changing the criteria in one way or another, closing down more, completely. It was to ensure that the tooth wheel of the system could continue without having to be exposed to a democratic disorder, and we know where the direction of the system had been, and where the system had led it. There the man and his position in nature, our status of Icelanders against our own nature, would have been able to enjoy our own nature, not to be the main thing. This issue was made clear when there are still a number of issues regarding operations and the preparations of the Lakejörður National Park. Would it not have been wise to start with the problem before they turned to it? It has, for example. It has been shown that 80 mountain roads and roads have been trapped in a lake land without explanation or at least with very limited explanations. It came on the day, what some might fear, although the authority was not as great as this one would expect, in that case it developed in a way that prevented man's approach, the landing of Icelanders into their own nature. Humans were not welcome in this natural world, even in memory of humans, about our cultural heritage, have been removed, ancient gangs, and other mines were damaged or removed because they were viewed as not part of nature. It is still going to be a great turn of events and to limit the freedom of the Icelanders to travel through their country. In fact, it is very unclear how broad the closing points are going to be, but in the light of experience, we must assume that humans will just continue to move up on the handle, at least is clear that it will need permission. It will have to go through the system and let the system choose who can enjoy and in what way and, of course, will be charged for it. Yet, they reasoned that the establishment of a high - nation park would increase the pressure of tourists to come to the country and say that it would be expected to close the country on an even greater scale. We must be able to rely on farmers and others who use the land and tourists, Icelandic and foreign, to use the highlands and to enjoy them as the people of the land have done for centuries, from land mine. Of course, the concept of the committee that is now central to the discussion, the way out, the escape route out of the case does not bind the next government. There is no way to appoint a government that has not yet been made to do something with the members of the committee of the previous council. Hence, this view can be considered primarily, and the plans described in it are described as a declaration of policy and the campaign of more part of the present, gain power, retain more part after election. It is now documented that this administrative element should continue with this project and on the grounds that have been presented. Then there are ideas about more conversation and more preparation than the highest level. Environment Minister had explained that the conversation had all taken place, the preparation had been done. Therefore, no more is to be expected than the government succeeds in carrying on this project, democracies, warnings, worries, as revealed in dozens of reports given by the committee, there will be nothing more done with this after election, even less. Then the next election will be longer, and less anxious to meet voters soon. We know what this bill is based on. We know the background, the report published by the transnational committee, the representatives of all groups except one, the bill approved by the government, which the government approved and intended to drive through. The bill, based on the valves, restrictions, systems, almost total minister to develop this and continue to change into the future, is based primarily on man's being a foreign object, and does not have much to do with much of the country. So, Mr. President, let us be fully aware that this case must be stopped. Now, members of the Central Party, we've managed to stop it over the election, but more of the stock has been telling us to keep him in place, hold him more after the election, and we'll continue with the matter. Fortunately, voters have a choice. They now have the opportunity to intervene in elections and to reveal their thoughts. I trust the people will want to defend their rights, defend their country, protect their own potential, have their own chance to enjoy Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u109	Mr. President. Iceland's highlands are truly priceless nature and value with wide variety in landscapes and uninhabited regions. Its pull will increase each year. But I don't see the need to make the highlands a national park. Nor do I see that it can make a difference in the restoration of tourism, as mentioned in this discussion. This plan that the government set out under the leadership of the highest government. Environment Ministers are in opposition to local societies. It is the rural population that has an interest to care for and, of course, should be at peace with the local communities in this matter. It hasn't been done. The plans are in opposition to the independence of the rural communities, which are spent in the republicary constitution. It is not the least about the organizational authority of the rural communities, as we have seen, in accordance with national laws. It cannot be overlooked. The rural areas in the South have, for example, described their opposition to these plans. The development of a park for environmental assessments requires that environmental factors, including society, environment, culture, costs, etc. These factors must be evaluated, since neither consultation nor analysis of its advantages and defects should be made whether or not to develop a national park on the highlands. At the early stage, the Blue Forest has provided comments to all of the committee's proposals for special emphasis and billing, this transpolitic committee, which was introduced at the outset. The development of a park in the Middle East, as the bill shows, reiterates its previous comments by the development of a national park in the Middle East. Let us consider some of the key comments made by the Blue Forest. They're discussing the intervention of rural planning, that there's too much there where management and protection programmes apply again to local planning programmes. The arrival of a partner in the management of the within-depth areas will not be sufficient to allow for the projections. The development of the promise of money and future incomes, as well as the existence of national economic advantages, is another way in which the twin skin is based on views of peace and protection, environmental and climate, and the other, on the other hand, is a strong brand of branding that attracts many people. It is also noted that the public's bioavailability towards national land areas will be limited by reimbursement and increased control. It will then be expected to be in the custody of the government and, for example, to reduce the volunteer contribution in order to contribute employment and funds for plant protection and healing, meaning and service to those in the territory. The rural government also makes a comment to the widely distributed permission of Ministers for the implementation of regulations relating to boundaries, peace descriptions, and so on. Mr. President. There were many comments on this matter, numerous. It has been observed, and especially on the part of the rural community, that the matter was marked by a small consultation with them. Of course, these are bad practices and do not preach good. Trust is of utmost importance, that between the state of state and the localities involved in a state of trust. The communication between national parks and major stakeholders has been examined in U.S. studies, and it is interesting to include only this subject. These include a study that was not long ago discussed with 420 people who are involved in national affairs, whether in the employees or those living in nearby national parks, etc. This was based on a year of participation in three large national parks. It shows that one of the main points is that it is very important to build trust between the government and the local community members and that national parks are open to their contribution, that the culture of neighboring countries is treated with respect, and that there are direct and informal contact with local people, and then that the park's management should be handled by professionalism and firmness. In foreign studies it is noted that both personal trust is important between local people and national parks directors, but it also counts what might be called systematic trust, i.e. to be used in a reasonable, beneficial process when making decisions. I'm sure it's possible to say that the preparations involved in this matter and that the rural communities conflict completely with what I was going through here. This is a process that is expected to be followed after the establishment of a park and the establishment of the National Park and the need to mention it here because it does not know the good introductoryness that has been in preparation for this matter. It is also noted that Iceland's High School of Economics has made a report on nature protection and rural development and the impact of reservations on neighboring areas. The report was published over a year ago and is of interest in many aspects, in which an interview study was conducted that included a total of 16 interviews that turned to the Lake Djörn National Park. People of interest, such as community members, tourism companies, employment development partners, landowners, or former park workers, were addressed. Both questions were asked about the good and bad effects of the park, its main opportunities and its threats, and the way the respondents sensed national and local communication. It is noted that many people fear commands and bans, and they want more consultation with local people at all levels of decision-making. That's where we come back on the discussion, how important it is. A red thread through all these interviews, 16 interviews that turned to Lake Blue Nation, is that when a deep sense of distrust is described, it is usually refer to those who come to the rule of the park and to nature protection in general from a distance. However, there is greater satisfaction in dealing with local, local, and personal contact with the people. The interviewers even referred to it. That, according to the original idea, the park should not have been a kingdom in the State, but should have worked with the people of his own home and be a source of power in the community. However, if the answers to the householder's comments are in general, it seems that this thought did not work out with the local population. The structure of infrastructure and the need for more funding for the national parks was a theme which was also made evident in the above numbers. And when it came to domestic relations with the park, certain suspicions and distrusts could be identified, which may include: Based on administrative problems that Lake Earth has struggled with in the past few years. In both places, it was found that many separated from the national administrations in Reykjavík and the park workers in each area, and it was a much more positive attitude toward local workers. Exploitation of territories to central government raises fears in the local population of losing control in their own environment. Hence, various and effective consultations with the population need to be considered as a key element. Active consultations with people of the main nearby national parks and other peace - torn areas are fundamental if the ability to build up needed trust between local people and those who control reservations. Such consultations need to go beyond following regulations in a mechanical way, as it were, that is, in alasably so. My conclusion after well considering this matter is that there is no time for a prime minister of the Mediterranean National Park. It would be almost better to provide for the national parks and peaceful areas already in the land, especially financially. It will not be seen, Mr. President, that the funds are now available and in the next few years at the government fund. The debt is high, it has grown dramatically during the time of the viral epidemic, and it is the key to achieving a record of success, so it will be difficult to get money to run decent national parks. More important, all contact with locals and stakeholders in areas that are already at peace, as is not possible. This is shown in studies both at home and abroad. Although the case is here to be referred to by the government, it is clear that the same categories will be in the next government, the forwarding category, the independent category, and the left green will be realized by a highland park during the next ideal period. An independent group and the forwarding party agreed to a left-hand proposal to establish a highland park and the case in the government's administration contract and passed through the government. A panel of independents and forwardees cannot hide in these areas and are not able to take it easy on this matter. When they realized that there was a great opposition to the situation in their backlands, the groups freaked out and ran away from signs, short for elections. But after the election, they'll agree. Those who intend to support these classes in the coming elections and the continuation of the administrative activities of these classes should bear this in mind right now, in the short term of elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u110	Mr. President. We'll discuss this with the 2nd. the national administration bill for the establishment of a high-national park, a case that the government agreed to take on, part of the Constitution. A special committee was appointed to prepare the project, where all committees except one of the positive results, signed, decided to put in a document to continue. The only one who didn't sign this was a member of the Central Party in this prime committee or a consulting committee or what they call it, Bergþór Ólason. The members of the political parties, including the forward party and the Independence Party, decided there to offer specific ways, pointing out a possibility to proceed with the case. The government then agrees to proceed with the case, the government of the forwarding party and the Independence Party, thus referring it to members of the council. No warning was heard in those days, no more than in making the government covenant, no warning. Long after that, representatives of these classes, including the head of the Annexe Party, came with an explanation of some warning. It was not until they were very afraid to answer for this national park in the coming election that something else was being said. It is for the fighting of the people out there, the fighting of stakeholders, the struggle of those who want to go free through the country, and our Middle House here at the council, where this terror began, as men began to realize that it could harm them in the next election. However, there was light somewhere in the administrative sector, they began to wonder how they could still complete the case without inducing the cooperation now and without preventing these groups from continuing after September 25, if they were given enough strength to do so. At that time, some committee view was arranged with a contraband proposal not to represent the matter in the Senate hall by saying yes or no to the establishment of a central nation they had worked on all the time until now, in secret and clear, Mr. President. It was not surprising, then, that the greater part, the left green, forwarding category, and the independent category, should have settled down on the wording that frames in, underlining, and excerpts that these groups will be given the strength of the next election will continue with the work that has already been done. I hope she will be better examined, as the above mentioned. Then I hope it gets better. Even so, after 150 comments or what they are, most of them are negative. Even if it was true that men would sit down and wonder what's wrong. Why are these great protests? Why is this tiny moaning memory thing complaining, which is more natural? It's just normal. But it is clear to no one, Mr. President, that these groups are going to continue on the same path, with the same objective in fact, to take one third of the country and hide it as a medium-controlled authority, where one minister has power over what is being done there, Mr. President. That is not to say to us; it is absolutely clear. Actually, it's a little special, I think, Mr. President, not just taking a stand and taking a little talk and taking it over with an approved or turned-off. I wondered, " Do these great political parties think people don't see through this text that's there? ' With a president's permission, I'm going to read here the conclusion of the Commission opinion of the greater part that says, including, and I'd like to mention that above, there's a great and beautiful text of reconciliation that I'd better review afterwards: ▪ The more part believes that to make such peace, we need to give the matter more time and it is important to continue working on it in broad consultations with all the nurses. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and to the Minister of Environment and Resources to submit a new bill based on the work that has been traced here. And now let's see, Mr. President, the Environment and Resource Minister now sitting at least. September 25, for it will probably take some time to form a government unless all of this has been taken care of here today, but there is evidence to suggest that it is based on this text that I was reading here. So now the government groups are going to assign their Ministers to continue preparing the case and providing a bill. They don't trust themselves to finish it now because there's an election coming, so they say it's best if the same minister can do it a little longer, hold it a little longer, examine some of the problems that some people have complained about and then bring a new bill. It's what stands out today, Mr. President, that the forward party and the Independence Party are going to finish this business with left greens, they're going to get that strength. In fact, I asked this morning, Mr. President, one of the members of the board who was here giving a talk, if this was the case, that they intend to proceed, and the answer was yes. The answer was yes, it should be continued. I just want to thank you for clearly stating that. I don't think so, Mr. President, I don't remember that there is another member of the rosary today, but it's only surprising that there aren't anyone else who intends to explain this matter to us. But hopefully that noble senator will come up here and tell us what really means to intend to continue with the case and that a minister to whom he supports should submit the matter. There are two committee opinions in this case, and one is from the lesser part signed by the base. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. son of Brjánsson, said, by permission of the president, in the first line of the ideal committee: ▪ When it comes to the case of a pandemic crown virus, the first of my smaller items feels that it is a prelude to bear a time shortage when it comes to something as important as a highland park. Of course you're right. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the son of Brjánsson Brunsson. Of course, it's just a premium to try to make us believe that the Covid epidemic had something to do with this job. The committee took care of 20 cases, if I remember correctly. It's very strange to try to hide behind this. I think I read, I don't see it here, that there have been some 12, 13, 14 meetings on this subject, and many guests came, but they didn't trust them to finish it, and that's not because of Covid. It's just because they got piss for the heart and they didn't have the nerve to go all the way. With all due respect to what's happened. Brjánsson I want to finish saying what he thinks about it, that the Conspiracy leaves no doubt that it will continue to fight and have fought for a nation of highlands all along, and her disappointments are very strong that this case should not be resolved. At least we have four groups who want to fight for a central nation park, and I think there are others. So it's left green, Conspiracy, Expensitive Party and Independence Party. You can add a little to the government after the election to get this out of the way if you think it's a small thing, you may have to authorize your members to ask for something, maybe not be in line when it comes to handling matters, and then it's good to have strength. In the panel 2 of smaller parts signed by Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason, the whole matter is being handled very well. It's gone well through the contour, it's gone through a conversation and a lack of solidarity called here, and I said I'd get there before, and I'll only come to that. Then the bill is described and passed through administration and various items on the bill, and so on. There are many things that stand out, Mr. President, but one of them is the great opposition that dealt with the case and was in the case the whole time it was on the committee, and there is, of course, still a great resistance to it, from rural communities, from individuals, from interests, from the interested people, from the usual Iceland who do not consider themselves to be in the little crying less part. The people who want to travel around the country even want to be able to operate in the country but who respect it. This bill is that my realizes a huge mistake, and it has been suggested to consult, and looking for solidarity, was of little value, or was nothing at all. Of course, handling such a big matter in this way is disappointing. You also wonder: " What were people doing all this time? Let's be fair, it was hard to travel through the country when Covid was. It was as if you could keep a network meeting, it would have been possible, but the highest. A minister went on a trip to try to sell this matter to the people of the land with little success, with very little success. That is why all the time is really incomprehensible. What happened to all that time? Perhaps all the time, did they not have absolute conviction? If they didn't have the conviction, why didn't they take action sooner? Why did the High Priests and the Independence Party fail to stay by or report to the preparatory committee? Why did the government not give priority to the matter? Why was the matter not changed to the treatment of governments or members of Congress? This is because people accepted the matter, that is, because the administrative issue was fine with it. We didn't and we won't. It is therefore, Mr. President, in effect, that men should not be more ambitious in trying to convince us that there is something else, because of course we know that now the members of the administrations are talking out and south of this house, completely out and south, saying that the matter has stopped, saying that it will not be accomplished and others will say that this is in fine order, beating themselves on the chest and saying: we had the declaration through, we want to continue to work on this. Why did the people not take the matter straight into the council and allow us to vote on it and show that the middle party was probably the only group against it? There would have been more of a struggle, Mr. President. In fact, the fact that these government groups are going to continue with the case, reviews the lack of communication, and, Mr. President, we're talking about one third of the country, and we're doing no more work than this. There is a section entitled Unvert bill and certain conflicts in the bill, which are well reported here on the part of the 2nd smaller parts, but it has also been pointed out in the reviews that there is a contradiction, as follows, for example, by permission of the president: It seems that way, e.g. it is unclear whether the goal of the bill is to increase the number of tourists in the region or to reduce the number of visitors. Nor should we forget, as mentioned here, that there is great interest in all of us, that our great interests, in fact, will not be taken from us the right to go through the country as we have done for a very long time. It is the fact that nature develops with those living in nature, whether it is man or animal. It's just normal. It also discusses only the use of energy resources. Of course, it was a huge disappointment when it was found that groups who had considered themselves to be a professional class had actually given green light to throw out of the board enormous opportunities to use their country's energy for employment, to improve the quality of life of existing generations and future generations. It was just to be dropped under the medium, as if it were nothing. I want to, Mr. President, also allow me to commend the council members and their representatives who have been extremely eager to draw attention to this tremendous media control that was to be taken over and actually take over, and I'm going to allow myself to use the beautiful words of the local people and bring it here. As I was saying, local rulers and others had warned about this, especially because it was their goal to take the administrative districts away from these democratic elected members of the countryside and even move to other rural communities or to some institutions, members of society and officials, and this is what these groups are going to continue working on. This is what's to be continued. It is to continue the work of taking this right and this power, this democratic authority, from these sources. They are also to continue their work in peace, or mark this area, so we lose our energy efficiency options. Mr. President. I'm about to finish this. My time is running out. With the permission of the President, I'm just going to read here in its final statement from my second opinion, with permission of the president: ▪ It is surprising that representatives of the Independence Party and the Ministerial Assembly in the Committee suggest that a new bill of highland parks be submitted to the next elected period, which includes the task list laid for Ministers on the main part of the referendum when the Minister is fully filled. It is thus heading for the same porridge in the same bowl, continuing its present political community. That's what's being proclaimed in this case, Mr. President. It is the continued cooperation of these three groups, continued work on the high national bill, and with the aim of the minister who so loyally supports these classes, contribute a new subject. I'm very afraid of this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u111	Mr. President. In many respects, this matter is interesting, and there are many factors. First, there is the manner of this case, i.e. Committee of the Management Board, with a reference proposal from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, a declaration of the present administrations to continue post-election cooperation. In fact, this case is a confirmation of things that have occurred in that direction. It has, for example. have been at the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance has taken time when they are not causing trouble at the board gathering cups to show them how compatible they are and how successful their cooperation is. It's a fine thing to do, Mr. President, and some would call it adorable. But what's good about this is that voters know with any certainty what options are most near when they vote for the government, the left, the future, and the independence. So voters know something about what course they're going to take for the next four years. If you're going to bear in mind the direction that has been run these four years, I expect to slide two masks on many because, of course, this election period, has been marked by stationaryness and a lack of ideas and a lack of a vision for the future. It can also be said, Mr. President, that this committee view of deliberation is a shipwreck in a gift package, confirming that the government has not trusted in bringing the case of the highland park into a Senate hall of knowledge of all the errors involved in the case. I'd like, Mr. President, to put this case under one light. In the United States, there are over 100 peace - related areas, and last environmental ministers have used themselves extensively in the terms of peace, which are just fine and good. But the matter isn't that easy, Mr. President, because when the Ministers of the Government, the one who is sitting on the scene, a certain area has been cleared of peace, something terrible is going to happen - you see nothing. The peaceful conditions have not been accompanied by sufficient funds, either to protect areas, control access, or to add land control, etc. Then there is another, to the highest. Environment Minister does not seem to know what is involved in a peaceful description in some areas. He does not seem to know what is going on in some peace - related areas. I'd like to recall that, Mr. President, that very recently I asked the highest. Environment Minister for the unsubstantiated question period on the Horn Coast in the reservation of peace, with respect to many other areas and most of them, one of the most spectacular but also one of the most vulnerable, peaceful areas in Iceland. The reason I asked the highest part. The minister was that a helicopter pilot who had flown people into the peaceland on a helicopter that is not allowed to be allowed was justified in judgment. I asked the highest. During the day, minister to the effect of this judgment. He didn't know. I asked him about the rules. It was thought in the court word that the advertisement of peaceful relations with this land had not been published correctly. Then I also asked him what to do this summer because, in Iceland, well, tourists are being seen again. But it all goes down to the point where their reception will be as inaccessible as it was here while a tourist stream to Iceland was like a season in which everyone was going to marry his hooks as short as time, shit in service, and shit in his reputation. There is some evidence that this thinking is still there, including some. Because they're about to cruise the country on a small cruise ship, and there's no one in the field to watch from the government. Mr. President. While we can't care for the territories we already want to protect short - lived, why should we take one third of Iceland and turn it into a state agency? Why? There's another thing, Mr. President, that I'd like to draw out in this context. I remember that it was 1996 that Lake Earth park was formed. I think I'm giving the right date. When a lake earth's nation was set up, that institution followed a very ambitious program of construction in the National Park. In short, it did not come to pass because these highly advanced plans were proposed, very elegant, in this report or tradition made at the time of the garden's establishment or of its birth, did not follow financial support. What did that mean? This meant that the lakeland was an unfashionable park, and it has been the long way to this day. It's, for example. They were now working in a guesthouse in a church village dresser, one of the park's outsides, long after the expected date. You can totally blame the crash, just as you blame the offense on this crash described on Covid. Of course, it is possible for humans to do just that if they want to. But that's not credible, Mr. President. And what has also been revealed about the Lake Earth? Yes, it was. A Government Accounting found that the park's governance was not effective. What was done in the original bill to legalize a highland park? It was suggested, Mr. President, about Just as a government structure like that of the State Accounting, in itself all had been judged out of the game in a Lake Earth park. So the preparation for this matter here, that the establishment of a highland park, appears to be, or has been in the same body as when Water Saffron Park was established. So perhaps you should be pleased that this is the way the government will break up, thinking that he will take the time to continue taking care of the matter. There's been a lot of alleged consultations in this case, and the members I've heard in and met and contacted, and have contacted me everywhere that, those who have countries or lands living in this park or have interests to care for, due to my own communities, society, deny that this conversation has been as extensive and as wonderful as it is given. Minister of the environment. It's not good luck to be in charge, Mr. President, when it comes to making such a decision. It's huge. It affects a lot of people. It affects the way we travel through the land. It affects who can travel around the country. It has, for example. nothing was clear, either here and to a small extent in the parks we have set up, how to ensure that the disabled are access to the gardens as it should be. Of course, in a world of organization as large as a lakeland park, you understand that it takes time, and there's any difficulty, in ensuring good access to the disabled in such large areas. That is why, Mr. President, perhaps the past few years, people should have stopped, wiped out their perspiration after and during the construction of a Lake cold nation and then be properly equipped to handle assignments of a highland park. I must say, Mr. President, and it has been shown in my case that I have doubts about this project. I have doubts about turning one-third of the country into a federal institution. I have doubts about rejecting ahead of time any opportunity to find energy in this area and close to it. Men, Mr President, have invented a word called the Holy Area. It wants to mean that not only are reservations and national parks without the use of energy but also some undisclosed area outside of the peace-lit area called the Holy Area. As far as I can remember, I've learned that when Land reactivation wanted, e.g. Add to the number of cigars they have up at the Valley of the Haak of During the Year, they were completely edified because it was from that pollution of sight, certainly, but not in the national park, not in the land of peace that is behind them, but on the way there. They thought it was awesome. I say again: I think people need to be made up of themselves exactly what they want to do, put it on the table because it's not completely clear, they don't have a word and what they see. In this respect, this violation of the government is good for this case, for people to have room to think about, but the contraband that follows this committee party does not assume that they intend to stay or learn anything or to conduct things differently or to learn from experience or such. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Environment Minister should present a new bill, just in the heel, just at the next assembly or something like that. And these tiny, crying smaller things seem to be more than a percentage of those who have doubts about this highland park, the number is increasing in the group, this tiny, crying minority. Studies show that there has been a decline in the interest of people and the survival of one third of the country. I expect, Mr. President, to lose his balance as soon as this case began to be discussed, as soon as this case began to be discussed on the basis of information that can be tried and after a presentation at the highest level. A minister went through the land, often saying that he simply didn't agree with them. This concluded the discussion and the conversation and the upbuilding interview. Plans like this, Mr. President, are the least to be forced through conflicts and differences before we decide to emancipate a third country. And use a probe - Mr. President, I know it's Icelandic and that the day of the Icelandic language is here every day - it is absolutely necessary to cover such a large program of general agreement. It does not mean going through the country, claiming to disagree with those who do not see the light in the first storm. That's how cooperation and consultation are going, Mr. President. Therefore, it would be natural to put these plans on the shelf for a while while men would revise the plans and put forth real plans that can live up to the expectations we have, based on the financial resources we have, etc. Mr. President. I seem to have finished my time, so I need to pray to the highest level of my time. The president of putting me back on the rosary because I'm just getting started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u112	Mr. President. As we know, this is a legal hearing about the establishment of a central national park that has been one of the fundamental issues of environmental and natural protection in the past few years and decades. The leading of the matter, you see, takes years and decades back into time as has been traced into the discussion now and at the moment of the first case, to the root of the matter, to the establishment of the good national parks as a former environmental minister of the Earth, and to the Scenarios National Park, as well as to the ideas of former members of Congress, such as Hjormorm Hjörleifur of Guttormsson and Jónína Bjartmarz, former environmental Ministers, and not only ideas, but also to Congress and Middleland National Action. It is also worth noting to mention the fact that the former chairman of the United States, the Árni of Páll Árnason, and the current director of the left movement, the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, both proposed a body of Congress proposals for the formation of a central national park on the same day, September 10, 2015. Shows perhaps best how close these two political parties have been in their approach to the Institute and the Peace of a Middleland National Park, as shown by a recent survey published a few days ago that the greatest support among the public is given by the supporters of these two political parties. Mr. President. We environmentalists have been waiting a long time for the establishment of a central national park. As I said earlier, the establishment of a central national park has been one of the main struggles of environmentalists in Iceland for decades. So it was a joy when the bill came to the top. The secretary of the environment finally appeared at a council and when he proposed on December 8th. The one standing here has and will always be a great supportist of establishing a national park in the middle of Iceland, which would be a major step for all of us. - Now I'm looking for my speech, Mr. President. We're almost there. It's not good, I know, but it's coming. - It would also be a great step to break free from the unique uncontaminated and uninhabited areas of Iceland, thereby showing respect for the areas they deserve. If we were to give peace to the whole central highland, we would also be showing respect and gratitude to the generations ahead of us who have shown the benefit of the individual nature of the central highlands. But with the peace of the central highlands and the establishment of that park, we would especially be leaving this unique natural world on a global scale in the secure oversight of future generations and ensuring them access to the unique territory of Iceland's global highlands. V.E.G. The Environment Minister spoke for the case in December last year, more than three years after the Treaty of the current government and at least two years of consultation and a national presentation process. Thus, the evidence of noncommunication in those who oppose a central national park and a legal bill for it will be approved here at the General Assembly. Mr. President. Despite the fact that the primary objective of the bill is, as it happens in Article 3. The issue, many noble, beautiful, and wonderful, such as protecting nature and national history, landscapes, globality, biodiversity, earth forms, cultures, and securing the existence of total ecosystems and natural processes, I have to admit that I had and have turned by a long-stranded bill on a central land country. I'm sorry, but I think the bill is too much of a pension to those forces that think of the central highlands as energy sources and for energy efficiency, and the law bill places too much emphasis on the work structure associated with the case. I felt like filming a story for the highest. At last, a minister of the environment, when he recommended the case, has strong evidence of that approach. In my opinion, he was a little overcrowded about the job structure in connection with the case, despite my agreeing that with the establishment of a central national park, opportunities for green generation can grow and valuable green jobs develop. But the work structure is not and should be, not a primary objective, for the creation of a central national park, but for the protection grounds. The biggest bend and fear I feel is 23rd degree. the bill that carries the most clear signal of energy withdrawal. There I would like to specify a sentence that reads, with the permission of the president: The new activation initiatives can be carried out on the perimeters of the Highland National Park if the new activation was defined in the energy efficiency category of the 3rd Act of the Protection and Energy efficiency programme adopted at the General Assembly on the basis of a protection and energy efficiency legislation and based on the evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency. Mr. President. What this means is that there is a wide opening on the construction of new fortresses in the so - called perimeter regions of a new central highland park. What are we talking about there? Yes, activation initiatives in the peripheral areas of the central highland park, such as the Mountains of Botna, Grashaga, and Sandfells in the Torfajokul region, are here with the possibility of being taken to a colony. The bill specifically states that these options are allowed to be activated. It is also known as the Whos fields of Kili, the gangs in the middle of a explosion, the Nuven ulceration at Núsást, the controversial Holfjörður and Hólm wound activation. According to the bill we're discussing here today and we've discussed earlier, none of these costs remain under the protection hat of the central national park, but it is strongly decided that new fortresses can be operated on in the national borders of the park and that a waiting factor is allowed to be activated in the national park's borders. It's hardly possible, Mr. President, that in a long-stimulated bill on a central nation park, new fortresses will be opened at the edge of the park and that an entire section of the law bill will talk about this. Although Torfijokus and other areas that are virtually part of the central nation park are in its borders, they are still an unbreakable part of the central highlands. We can hardly tear it apart and say, "This side of this hill can be activated, but on the other side of the hill, we are going to have uninhabited. " It just doesn't work. It can hardly agree with the definition of national parks that all activities and projects that have lasting impact on the environment are banned unless they are needed to achieve a peaceful goal. I can hardly say anything about the activation of the park that is still being maintained, the cohesive action that is to be part of the activation structure, the built - up way of life, the linework, and the large - scale noise of the region will further break up landscapes on the west side of the ocean cold, in the edge of the Lakesland Park, at Vondar, and into the proposed centrally highland park. This is hardly consistent with the ideas presented in the noble target of the bill protecting the uninhabited and uninhabited areas of Iceland's central highlands, is it? At least that doesn't match the concept as defined by nature protection law, No. 60/2013, where there are areas in the wild where manpower and nature can be enjoyed without interference with manmade or motor - driven vehicles. In fact, we stand here at the council Hall and discuss this matter, even though we all know that this council will not succeed. It is referred to the current government, but we have no idea of its end, what happens after the next election. If there's going to be such a success that there's going to be a green socialism after the next total election, then it's just gonna have to change 23rd. The bill. It is also of interest, though, that during the hearing of the Generals who started the discussion on December 8, the immediate attention of strong criticism was given to the results of this report. The government's criticism of the matter was strange, heavy, and heavy. The directors who came to the General's speaker's office to cover the Supreme Court. The environmental minister of a highland park, severely criticized it, and most questioned it, was the majority of them. Environmental and Transport Committee. Of course, the president's criticism should not be forgotten. The Environment and Transport Committee, which showed us immediately six months ago that the matter was not on its way to the treatment of reconciliation with the Committee. The poor sit for a year and a half of this average period of rest. I have to admit that I was not hoping that the Committee would improve the situation, even if it would resolve it. So much for today, Mr. President, where the bill is being pushed off the table. A little more about the officials who boarded this deck when the case was first recommended six months ago. They were not considering environmental protection or environmental protection, but they were responsible for the development of rural society. And in the consultations and reviews of the bill, the communities themselves put much emphasis on their organizational authority, that it must not be limited at all. Mr. President. In fact, I have to admit that I am part of the group that agrees with the National Guard resolution last year that the bill, as it looks now, really leads to too much power at the expense of expert assistance, with all due respect for our good government and its activities throughout the country. The day came when the main objective of the bill was turned aside, and the people were more concerned with impaired planning, when it is true, Mr. President, that all the rural areas in the vicinity of the Snæfells National Park, and at the Lakehjörg nation, have made money by some means of being nearing these remarkable national parks from a social perspective, from a job structure, on the basis of education options and on increasing quality of life. I think from now on - and I hope that in the next terms, we will provide a legal bill for the establishment of a central national park for our benefit - the purpose of the views that lead to the establishment of a central nation of protection. We benefit from the principle of protection for all of us, whether we are elected members of this council, elected representatives of the rural areas, general citizens of this country, whether we live in the capital area or more near the proposed Middleland park. You see, we will all share in a coming central nation park, and all of us will have access to the protected areas below. Mr. President. Sadly, the media between the government groups were too much. The fear I described here in a speech when the case was first brought to the fore. It is not enough that the primary objective of the bill was turned aside but that of two government groups of central national parks into the sea. The left movement sits a green bid with a painful forehead, for the matter was never properly caused by my old party, VG. Achieving in the terms of the term, which is one third of the public's support for the establishment of a central national park, would seem to be an accomplishment, and it is not an achievement. Neither is it that a pandemic has prevented the development of a central population park, both in the case of the government's leaders and in the leadings of the committees. Environmental and Transport Committees, but another type of lesion that is the opposition of the Independence Party to the establishment of a centrally highland park and, unfortunately, the forward party at the end of the case. Nor is the General Assembly to blame for the lack of a national bill during this terms. You see, it was the VG government, the Independence Party, and the forwarding party that did not achieve this enormous and vital protection in the four year term due to intervening differences and their opposition. Once the decision is made not to refer the case to the government, it must be made at the moment. When a government case is referred back to a government that will exist for over three months, there is no great hope that the government will resolve the matter. If this government remains on the throne, then there is also hope that it will end this important matter, unfortunately. This is sad, and it is disappointing, but it is the reality that we face. The case was one of the basic issues of the government covenant, but it was not achieved through the council, even though it was one of the biggest issues that the WG proposed to create a government. Despite the pressure and fear that the people felt toward this government creation, many rejoiced that at least this old environmental issue, both inside and outside the council, would be attacked. I also mourn that this defeat is going to be severed in spite of a massive repercussion. Environment Minister to the material I described at the beginning of my speech, i.e. The energy inputs, and the post-production towards energy efficiency instead of the protection issues to be the primary objective. In fact, the surrender was so great that land induction saw its power to send out a statement that the company wasn't interested in exerting as much as it really was. Of course, there are also two other cases that have been eliminated that are compatible with the establishment of the central national park, i.e. The framework plan and the establishment of National Park. Some time ago, it became evident that this case would not be passed through during that terms. So it would have been clear to everyone what the conclusion would be. It must be a defeat for losing the tremendous record of progress that the establishment of a Middleland park would be in breaking off the unique and uninhabited boundaries of the central highlands. There are disappointments, Mr. President, and a sad conclusion in this great conflict of environmental protection and protection throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u113	Mr. President. What do we call a bill to legalize a highland park at this point? I don't know, I think I'd call it the bill of smiles. The bill of promises given and then ignored. This is one of the basic issues of the government's Treaty in the Treaty of the Government of the Left Green, Independence Class and Progress, one of the biggest issues of nature protection, in which a government contract, did not have the power to complete it, not because of social opposition or in attendance, but because of personal opposition. And then I really find this delinquency to be quite remarkable. You know, cases that are stuck between government parties and dead usually just die on a committee. They are not instigated with a committee party with a contraband proposal to refer to an advanced government to die here in a Senate hall in front of all people. I don't think it's a pretty way to put this thing to sleep. The smiling hopes expressed in this case are also seen in the support of the idea of national parks in Iceland's centres, this wonderful idea of peace declaring a unique region worldwide in behalf of the natural protection of future generations. You see, five or six years ago, 61% supported this case or 61% supported the idea of a highland park. By presenting the bill and presenting it throughout the country and bringing it to the council, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government was able to subside her support to 43%. There has been a problem in this case since the first day because it was decided that although a highland park was laid in clear terms in a government contract, this case would be linked with two other cases of the government that the same would not apply to, a frame of motion and a national park. Thus, it had been decided that this case would be determined by political horse markets, rather than by the content of the matter, with the result that a central national park was deceived by a frame plan. By the time the bill arrived at the council, the knots had been arranged so that a so - called perimeter area had been defined as the operation of a new energy plant was authorized. Yet, living areas are a misleading term in these areas because they are not on the side of each one. They are many in the middle of the park, like the Cradle Stimulating Syndrome of Hope Passes. 15 The activation initiatives for the 3rd part of the Framework Programme are in zones in the peripheral regions of the bill. Aside from the Tank, you might mention, for example. The three fortresses that line south of the Torfajokul area, one of the most precious in this area. It is the idea of keeping it open that at some point in the future, there are three 80 MW nuclear plants that have the right sense of steam and that are destructive to the survival of natural people in this area. But okay. The problem was also shown that when the case finally came to light last fall, after the Covid epidemic had been used as a reason not to put the case before the year, the Specialist Party set Iceland record as a front line for the seven non-visual team what it would be for this bill to come forward. The interesting thing about this advance party is that they all seem to be alive. They find their way into the views of the greater part, the voice of the advance, the voice of opposition to this bill still lives in the leading point, a committee that is difficult to read, but a strong criticism of environmental and resource ministers who presented this issue after claiming to have done things in this committee of more members of the council are said to have to do better. The committee's opinion says that there needs to be good work to be done, that trust needs to be established, that we need to make peace, and that there is a need for extensive consultation. But I understood 1st. The point is that in the two years that the Ministry was fully agreed on throughout the country, the minister felt that he had done so. What this shows us may be that when it comes to consultation, there is not necessarily a measure of quality. Based on the reviews, it has been lacking that those interviewed experienced hearing, that this was closer to what some reporters called a shaman. In that case, where there is a case as far apart as it is seen in this case, it may have been perfectly predictable. But there is another lesson to be learned from this, the distance between the classes. It shows that it is difficult to bridge between government opposing poles and plan to penetrate controversial issues. A recent survey that reported support for national parks in the middle of the country to 43% showed that their support was greatly mistaken for political opinions. It is, in effect, clear that the groups where the grass root, where the voters support the establishment of a park, are intervening, left green, Pirars, and Backhold, whose opposition is overwhelming in the Middle Order, the forwardness, and the Independence Party. The lesson of this should be for people who want a centralized national park to choose groups who want to work seriously on that project by forming a government with groups that want to do it well. I'm saying this because when the committee's opinion with the waiver had become a fact, when it had become a documented fact to kill the bill, spokesmen appeared in the left greens and said that this just meant that they had to put this case in the elections, make it an election case, and then put it at the tip of the next control interview. Mr. President. What is it again when people do the same again and again expect some other conclusion? Isn't that just some kind of confusion? No, the lesson of this overwhelming journey is, of course, that the members of the government today do not have the authority to set up a national park in the highlands of Iceland that can be agreed upon. For this reason, it is simply not a will on their part, and when those taking the lead in these classes are going to pursue the same government after the election, the claim that they will only do so in the next election period is, of course, completely unfaithful. You see, this is not the way to make such an important decision. We who want to see the peaceful light of the highland take the form that there is a national park that covers all the unique natures there are in behalf of nature protection and future generations should not be allowed to offer us this confusion. People who want a highland park can look at history in the past four years and learn a lesson that in the present government, there is no solution. I hope that in spite of this fall, this terrible confusion and dramatic fall, a highland park will become a reality sooner than later. But I am afraid that one of the inheritances of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was doing the project much more unpopular than it was before the last election that this park could become more popular.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u114	V.E.G. President. It has been observed in our discussion today that there is great opposition to a bill in the middle of a highland park. Therefore, it is rather surprising that the case will be referred to the government and that the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill, which is what more part of the Environment and Transport Committee wants them most. It is strange that both the independent party and the forwarding party choose this way, since these groups have now set in advance in late stages. As noted by many, the establishment of a park in the central highlands is laid down in the government's Treaty on the left green, independent party and forwarding party. The government that will accept must make its own decision in this matter, just as it will make its own decisions in other matters. Therefore, it is special that more of the environment and transport committees contribute this additional information on how the next government should handle the situation. There are two factors that matter. The first is that it is assumed that the same government groups will respond to the next election or that the country's eyes are being crushed again and that they are praising what cannot be held. Not to be overlooked, as I said, is the government's contract saying, by permission of the president: A national park will be built in the central highlands by consultation with a transnational committee, the Environment and Resource Ministry, rurals, protection and outdoor organizations, and other stakeholders. There were no officers at either the Independence Party or the High School. None. The list of members of the greater part suggests that the representatives of the Independence Party, Action Group, and the left movement of the Green Mission suggest that the case be referred to the government and Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter. It may then be concluded that if it is possible to lay down everything so that the establishment of a highland park will be realized during the next election period, these same categories will have to be in power. This can therefore be interpreted to mean that a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees are going to follow the same categories of the next government. This is not exactly exhilarating, considering that much opposition is in the majority of the nation's population, the tiny, crying smaller parts. You can sense that there is a lack of consultation throughout this work. It is not enough to go around seeing someone and someone else. It is important to listen and build trust between people. For such a big and important matter, society must be as far as possible. As this case has become growing, about one third of the country is being taken under national parks, with virtually every rural population having a country of a proposed national park. A representative of the Central Party in the transnational preparatory group mentioned earlier today and was to be the foundation of the matter told of the work where it became clear at that point that they would not be taken into account by economists. There were many reports of the matter, nearly 160 of which most speak against the establishment of the highland park. Then it could have been clear at the point that this bill was unconcerned. It's called mere convergence. Many comments show that the content of the matter is vague, not well done, or completely incompatible with the objectives of the bill. An example is whether the goal of the bill is to increase the number of tourists in the area, yes, or reduced. The problems of legislation, the interests of all Icelanders are under, the energy resources of the country and the use of them for the future, to name something. The cost of this bill can be expected if at any time it becomes legal, and the cost of it has not been fully elucidated. This bill we're discussing here upsets energy efficiency options, such as how to use the fallways or high - temperature areas in the central highlands. If we're going to have green energy in this country, we have to be able to live up to it, and that in the form of renewable energy. I'm gonna grab some envelopes. " By permission of the president, " says a headline in the Landsam of Sheep: A national park in the middle of the highlands at the early stages of the case has been put in the hands of a flock of sheep farmers. There, the organization has even. pointed out that with an organization of national parks in the middle of the country, rural society is being severely organized. These observations have not been adequately addressed during the final work of the bill. This clearly shows that there has been no effective consultation, as I mentioned earlier. In another review, the U.S. government of Svalbard Beachshreps says, by permission of the President: Svalbarstrasstrapushrep's management board agrees with the goals set out in Article 3. the bill, which includes focusing on nature protection and the history of central land, improved public bioavailability, increased research, and improved cooperation. As the Svalbarstrandrastrapep government declares support for the protection of Iceland's highland environment, local administration is unacceptable to the decommissioning of rural authority in the park and this work is going through a central institution of a state with a limited link to rural society and population. A rural government has doubts about the arrangement that one party is given power to make decisions and grant work permits which may be contrary to the decision of democratic elected representatives of the rural community. The goals presented in Article 3. The bill on the establishment of a central national park requires extensive consultation and preparation in a democratic field, a financing program, and a financing when areas of peace are secured. It is not yet time to cancel the rural rights of society and to make the income of nationalisation within each rural society. There is uncertainty about the funding of Highland National Park and the importance of using funds, emphasis, and policy in the construction and implementation of peace descriptions, as well as wide agreement on regulations in the setting and management of the Highland National Park. I think this review clearly illustrates the attitude of most Icelanders. We all want to protect our country, take good care of it, and make sure that the money we pay in the form of taxes and pay along with the ostracism of the administrative system. According to this, the right people to pass through their land are not to be forgotten. This emphasis cannot be emphasized enough or enough. This is what I say because at the same time as many travel in the highlands, most of them go through it with the protection of nature in mind. It's about freedom of movement. Many of the rumors received discussed just about that, that as the years go by, the freedom of the public is closed. These are people of all sorts, hikers, and horsemen, just to name some. In conclusion of the Committee 2 reduces part of the Environment and Transport Committee, it says: Most people can agree on the goal of the bill as it is already known. However, the fact is that if financial management suddenly stops being a priority, there is little in the present arrangement of matters that prevent the ten aims from being reached. That's even. The establishment of the highlands that they don't care about. However, secondary estimates are, in principle, the best place to be, as is now, in which farmers, possessors of the country, play a key role, where operators who have built up operations in the national park, as suggested, can work in a complex environment. It is quite surprising that representatives of the Independence Party and District of the Committee suggest that a new nation park bill be submitted to the next elected period, the task list laid for Ministers in the decision-to-be in the main part of the section when the minister is fully filled. It is thus heading for the same porridge in the same bowl, continuing its present political community. And this knows the tiniest of my things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u115	Mr. President. I would like in this second speech to address the deduction proposals of more part of the environment and transport committee for a highland park, and the whole case as it is, first introduces a few of the points presented in talks, especially the head of the Commission's opinion of more parts, or. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. I think it's necessary to mention these factors to ensure the context of the objects. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who worked for the initiative as manager of this case, and this was certainly not a simple project in view of the issue, put in place at the beginning of the work that probably two environmental ministers before the Supreme Minister. An environmental minister who was now seated had started or worked in one way or another. It could be understood that Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, then environmental minister, was set up in the government of an independent party and a forwarding party during the July 20133/42016 period, which was aimed at the establishment of a national park in the highlands. In the vast majority of the surveys, what has been described as the challenge of the highlands was taking place in the light of increasing numbers of tourists and a growing interest in them. A consideration of the highland environment and an effort to increase the protection of vulnerable areas is much different from providing a national park that covers a third of the country. They were looking to protect the highlands and vulnerable areas. This is what I'd like to say to keep the context that this emphasis on national parks on the highlands is to make things new in the context of things. I think that in terms of such an enormously large issue, which is about to put the harshness of one third of the whole country under that hat, it is entirely reasonable to give such speculations and ideas a good time to develop. I think it's unlikely and actually unrealistic to look back at it. In that light, I think it's good to have time. It is not technical for days upstairs, this is a deduction from the greater part, to return the case to the minister. But what's really happening is that the thing is to fall; I'm not going to allow myself to say dead, but it won't be over, it won't be done in this terms period. It will be referred to an environmental minister who, in some cases, may seem strangely to have met all the indications and conditions mentioned by the majority of them in his contraband. I am absolutely convinced that the highest. Environment Ministers believe that they have led to the resolution of national views that turn to the boundaries of national parks and reservations, which are introduced into the bill. I'm convinced that I'm at the highest. Environment Ministers feel that they have led to a conclusion about governance and policy development. I'm convinced that the Environment Minister believes that he has led to the complex of views and conflicts involved in the interaction of the strategy of rural society. I am absolutely certain that the environmental minister believes that he has led to the resolution of conflicting views involved in the rules of traffic and national contact. I'm sure that environmental Ministers feel that they have led to the resolution of conflicting views that are involved in the management of traditional crops, fishing, energy efficiency, and electrical transport processes. I am convinced that the Environment Minister believes that he has clearly identified the park's financial needs, even though tools are about how practical it is to eat and work well. I'm quite sure, too, that the Environment Minister feels that he has really advanced in terms of the park's employment contracts, although it is a step, of course, followed by the approved bill as it is in relation to the setting up. I'm sure that the Environment Minister is convinced that he has figured out a solution and that it is part of the bill here for what will be considered to be a matter that will now be divided between different schemes. It's the alarm. These are the projects that are written into the deduction proposal of the majority of the Committee. They're all as great as anything. Minister thinks he already fulfilled. Of course, this is an intermediary to ensure that everyone maintains a calm face, ensures that the case survives, that the matter is alive, and that the case can be well organized during a new term period if these three categories, the left movement ◯ green supply, the advance category, and the independent category, form a government during the next term. It is obvious that the presidents of these classes are particularly interested in this, in view of the words that have fallen during the past few weeks, although there may be some change in these last days. If that is the case, these groups will continue to cooperate, then the matter will continue in a new term. Thus, during the four years that they will be given to complete the establishment of a highland park on the basis of the left movement, one third of the country's left movement will surely be followed. Environment Minister. Part of the fact that I've decided to keep it here to the highest. The Environment Minister already thinks that all of these conditions are in place, so letters can be continued during a new term. This is my conviction because of the way the preparatory work was conducted. I came into my speech at the beginning of the case, where I recommended the minority of our members of the Central Transport Committee, my and what. paritaprevir Hjaltason Götaçar, that a layman had described himself as a full - grown child to aesthetism, taking into consideration the opposite viewpoints after the interaction that took place there. I just want to, because. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has entered the hall, the chairman of the committee's opinion, which has worked a lot of work around it, commends him. For a senator who had taken the lead in talking to a group of societies that are in this park, a national interest group of things, and no doubt, even though I don't know them, individuals who have conflicting views. But it sounds to me like everything, and it really is because I know the case well, that this is the first time anyone listens to this person of some sense. To that end, praise should be given. A manager though I disagree with him on the subject, that is a completely different matter. But the highest. Environmental Ministers seem to have completely screwed up, and that's my criticism. Hv. The speaker of the case came to the point in his letter of transit that the committee had not had to be taken out, it would have been a good way to let that issue go. However, the route that has gone suggests that the members of the government are going to proceed with the case and to finish it, they work together after the election. As a result, more part of the Environment and Transport Committee, signed by Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdótir, and Árnason Arjölmnason, are listed earlier on the page by permission of the president: ▪ The more part believes that to make such peace, we need to give the matter more time and it is important to continue working on it in broad consultations with all the nurses. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government, and the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter... I know why. A member of the Independence Party and a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee Vilhjálmur Árnason is next in speech. It'll be interesting, even if I'm not going to park. A senator's words, to see how independent people view this text. If such promises are not unmistakably included in this, it is obvious that the Independence Party has agreed to bring up a new bill on the subject during the next term. It's exactly in the committee's opinion. This brings me back to the advance discussion of the bill. I was one of the members of the council who was placed on a so - called transpheric committee that won a report designed to prepare this bill. This suggests that the representatives of the greater part believe that the Environment Minister has greatly failed to use that report as the basis for the bill he presented. In fact, the vision of the majority of the items that have spoken here today is not in any way compatible with what seems to be the case. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson agreed with me earlier that there was not, in itself, a major discrepancy between the current bill and the work of the committee being performed in the leading of it. They're playing some game, buying time. I pay attention to skeptics who say the matter is going on in the bill of environmental Ministers falling asleep on their guard, so to speak. I think I know what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has real doubts about the wisdom of continuing the matter in the way it has been worked so far. In this context, the highest possible approach must be considered. Environment Minister screwed up the case in its late and late contributions. If you didn't know better, you might have felt that the minister's will was not real to set matters straight. Although there has been a small delay for reviews to the environment and transport committee, the fact is that the matter will not be presented until the end of the last year. Then it had the highest. A minister had four years to win it. It's fine, then, if that's the way it's going to work, then there's a chance it'll blow again in the next term. If the suggestion is the same as it has just been then we, with middle-class members on the head, have to stop it again. But what the members of the Independence Party and the forward party have already signed up on the deportation committee is the fact that you cannot help but worry about it. It is obvious that the matter should be continued, that it should be finished, just in a little more costume than it is now, to face the countless views that have been presented in its processing. I'd like to recall that when the case is presented in the government's government contract, there are no warnings, even at the highest rate. A few weeks ago, a secretary of transportation, chairman of the Mission Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, claimed that the matter was immediately under way. However, by permission of the president, the government covenant says: A national park will be built in the central highlands by consultation with a transnational committee, the Environment and Resource Ministry, rurals, protection and outdoor organizations, and other stakeholders. No backups. This is also the case in this later committee party. [[The president calls.]] There are no special warnings because this list is all at the highest level. Environment Minister thinks he's already fulfilled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u116	A respectable president. Here, we will discuss no less than the highlands of Iceland and a so - called highland park. The highlands of Iceland are important to all of us, and precious to all of us. This has created a lot of discussions. This has been evident in the variety of groups, many people throughout the country in different parts of the world who have participated in the discussion on this subject during the highland discussion. For that, I am grateful. I thank these people for taking an active part in the discussion on such a large matter that we have been taking to treat here at the council. This is how things should work, in the conversation of a council and a nation. That's how things are going to work. The reason that we today are discussing a deliberation proposal with a considerable number of factors that need to be done better, to make more sense, is the work of the people I mentioned earlier who have been in conversation with us. The people made their own opinions and grammatical arguments that show that we are turning the case back to the government for a better job, to make peace. That's what it's all about, and I'll just say thank you to the 158 members who sent in reviews, the numerous members of the council, and others who have been in touch with all this election period. Since the arrival of the transnational committee, I have worked hard to travel through the country, to go out to the people, and to discuss the important and large issues on the people's side, their circumstances, their concerns, and their opinions on this matter. On this basis, I have won this case and have built my position from the beginning. The Federal Commission consulted extensively and produced a very large, subjective report. This report is of utmost importance in the processing of this case, since all of us will be united there except the Central Party representative for certain reasons for national parks. Then comes a matter of Congress that didn't meet the criteria. This is part of the opposition this matter is having here. Now we're dealing with a paradox based on the same points as I at least stressed in the Parapolitan Commission, I made my notice and a memo about the return of the report. Now the Senate is telling you again. This document here, like the sofa that all except the Central Party representative agreed to, is of great importance to the issue. These are the songs the people out there made with us. It reasoned, expressed its grammatical views, and worked along with us. I'll say thank you to the people for the great cooperation. Iceland's highlands are important to so many people, and we want to protect freedom from travel. We want to protect the crops. We want to protect the highlands like that. We want to have an efficient control system over the highlands so that those who want to use it in one way or another, or we as a nation who needs to make good use of it can walk in principles that are efficient and that are going up, which are for the best of the nation. We want outdoors to enjoy it and, as I came in, to be enjoyed by those who have the right and others who can continue to enjoy it. These people - rural society, partners, crops, outdoors, people in this country - have been taking great care of the highland so far, that's why our highland is so precious, how we've handled it, how we've used it, and how we've learned to respect it. These initiatives and initiatives may only be activated, but not impaired. You must not discourage this initiative. We have to keep it. He is seen in the much discussion and participation that have been involved in this matter. When so many groups agree on the importance of a single geographic area, it is important to make peace with them. It's a very important matter to make peace. So I welcome the much work and discussion that has taken place in which all views have reached the table. We can try to reason on this important matter. I'm not in the way of finding a solution in this case. I'm happy if we find her and believe that we can. National park is not the same as a national park. There are a lot of versions of national parks. It is the size, the system of government, the operation, the peace conditions, and things that can be done in different ways. While humans are opposed to this bill, against the information presented in the bill, it does not mean that you are opposed to all possible exports. The highlands are in three different exports today. It's the peoples' environment and a certain national property arrangement that I think has come in just fine shape and has worked pretty well. We have the peace-lit areas that have a different system of control, and then we have a Lake Earth park that I believe is the greatest booth and the most difficult. But I'd like to say that running a Lake land today is going well, and the inner work has gotten much better, and coming in a cool way, which is the government arrangement that I've been criticizing there for a long time. We need to learn from the way it is and take into consideration it. We're here to discuss deliberation from the many comments and information we've received from the people out there, and thank you very much. It is impossible to say how long it will take to make peace, but here, at least, the Allied Assembly of Iceland is saying in this contraband that there must be wide consultation and reconciliation. Here are a lot of things I'm not going to list that need to go over and get. It suggests that more is being applied to the local community's will in this regard. The scope, control, and everything I've been discussing must be considered. It's the main thing here, and I finally say: "The people talked, we listened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Árnason the Aarson's for an excellent speech. I noticed that the senator's descriptions of the situation were quite good, just as it is in Iceland's highlands. Of course, there are always certain things to be fixed, and there are ways to do so within the present rule. Hv. The senator went over these three types of territories; the peoples, the peace - declared regions, and then the Lake Bay National Park, which he described as the greatest booth of these three. In view of how well the work goes in the highlands, what calls for this work to continue? So I noticed why. A senator said that he was not in advance against the establishment of a national park if we found a solution to the information available. Is it not a matter of trying men on their asses by using this approach, that there can be no end of saying, "We haven't found a solution to this, we haven't found a solution to the other?" Would it not be much more honest to say: "Hey, we're just going to fix it where there's a problem with the current arrangement? Clearly, we are ready to put all this money into it, as it already is. It must be the will of the government, and I know that many in the government stand that way too. What is the purpose of this work? Looks sharp. A senator thus indicating that this is not an obligation for the administrations, that they continue their cooperation, and that they find solutions to the issues listed here as a panel of green greener ones with a environmental minister in charge, evidently think that already a solution has already been found?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I think the situation is generally good. However, I state that the policy regarding nationalisation and the rest came in 2019 so that the arrangement is only being done better than it once was, although it is not necessarily flawless. We still have three different exports in the highlands, depending on where you are in the highlands, whether you are in a lakeland park, in a peace-infested territory, or on the peoples. I think it's quite a working way to coordinate this a little bit further, maybe just by making some kind of policy for the whole high country that the rural communities do so regionally over there, because there's a policy for the peoples. There's a lot of ways to go. But if we can get this together, it's fine. If we can achieve this reconciliation and this work even to reduce the fallancy of the lake earth's park, the system of oversight there, there is a great deal of work to be done on that subject. There are areas in the highlands that stand aside because they are not peaceful. There's not an arrangement yet, I'd like to mention, for example. Landers have been organized there for a long time. However, since a peace - telling process has not been completed, some organization should be on its way, money or authority have been given to build this area up. There's a lot of these things that still stand out. And if we can set up a complete organization on it, I think we'll advance to the highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u119	The president forgot to know that since three members of the council are in opposition to them, they have one minute to offer an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u120	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I wanted to go to the conclusion of the committee with an all-out proposal. A senator signing. After the officers, the repeated, have been recited, by permission of the president: In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and to the Minister of Environment and Resources to submit a new bill based on the work that has been attributed here. And now I repeat: I think I know that the highest. Environment Ministers already consider this work to be fully met. This is shown in the highest form. Minister has said. What is the meaning of this sentence other than the fact that the will of those who sign this document is being set up for a new bill for the establishment of a highland park during the next term, has power and power? [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask you why. A senator: Is there anything to expect but that there will be a bill on the establishment of a highland park, or is the Independence Party involved in a government during the next term? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u121	President new that humans have one minute to make a move.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u122	A respectable president. Here the Allied Parliament is saying that it wants to be based on all the hard work done, all the reports that have been involved, and all the discussions that have been discussed. Interestingly, then, the Council will not agree that all of this work has been done, and it will have to be done. We feel that it is very important, to settle matters, and in view of the amount of work that is behind it and, as we wish, to ask here for it to come back into the Senate. There are other ways to build national parks. It can be done with the expansion of Lake Bay Park. This can be done by means of a peaceful description under nature protection laws. But we'd like to get this into the Senate, so this work stays on top of it, and the council will be allowed to hold this matter. That's extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk on this matter, of course, is the most embarrassing of all for the Independence Party, as well as for the forward party. These groups go into one bed with left green less than four years ago, and in the Constitution, this statement is: A national park will be built in the central highlands by consultation with a transnational committee, the Environment and Resource Ministry, rurals, protection and outdoor organizations, and other stakeholders. It's signed four years ago, and we know what happened after that. I was so excited at the time that nothing was to consider what this could mean, e.g. preventing all energy efficiency in the region? Didn't you and lndependence think of that? And you're going to repeat this now according to this majority party. You're going to do it again, go on. Do you really think that the left green is going to be fooled again? You think so? And you talk about meeting people and talking to people, and it's so important to have a conversation with people, how will you explain this proposal to people far and wide about the country? How will you explain this to the voters? Do you think voters believe you'll be back in bed with this government, if you get the strength and the more part, and then you can run back? No, I don't think you can. I don't think you can run away from this case again. We have a large, powerful national park where Lake Bay Park is. He needs to improve and improve, and we might be proud of him if we were to put into him what needs to be done. But you're gonna step into this swamp and how are you going to explain it to the voters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u124	The President reminds us of what it is. The members of Parliament are to speak to him, and when they direct their words to other members of the council, they are to address them in a traditional way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u125	A respectable president. The only embarrassing thing in this case is the search by the Middle Class for how they can pretend to be the greatest opposers of the park. They are so embarrassed that they have missed the matter and are now considering how they should dress on the Independence Party for their own success. That's all that's embarrassing about this case. I would like to point out that it was up to us to represent the Independence Party who wrote the report that the framework and system plan of the Landsnet should apply. You see, that's the way it is. And that is clear in the opinion of the Parapolitic Committee, which all listed by the Central Party. The only group that got conned here was the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u126	Mr. President. I appreciate that. It was really fun. I have to say it. The only group that got conned was the Central Party, it's like a paradox. Maybe you can figure it out in a later answer. The middle tribe was the only group that stopped the matter. We are protected from the evil legal system that you're entering. Inside that trap you've walked, and I asked, "How are you going to explain to the voters all over the country that you're going back into this trap? With this proposal, you are walking the same route as when you first entered the government business of this term. But there is the danger now, if the voters choose these classes, and if they come back together, that the case will be realized. How's it going, man? A senator to prevent that, if that is the case? How will he explain this to his voters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u127	The president still reminds us of what we are doing. Councilmen are to direct their words to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u128	A respectable president. It's hard for me to see how I'm doing. The members of the Central Party are going to demonstrate that they stopped the matter. I don't see any sign anywhere. But at any rate, I can explain to the voters that their will has come to the Senate, to their will to listen. Their willingness has arrived in a transnational report. Their will has been embellished in this contraband that I stand for, not the members of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u129	V.E.G. President. There's a reason to thank you. For the discussion, a senator who is the only independent member of the Governing Body who is involved in this discussion. Um, talk of a highland park in Iceland. What a reason. A senator would be peculiar in case of reason. He was told that they had been listened. Hv. A senator said: "People reasoned with us, and we listened. He wanted to thank the people for expressing his opinion. How, though, were the thanks really? Nothing was done with the comments, so people were forced to respond after the bill was released and protested, sending in envelopes that were unusually negative and unusually negative. Hv. A senator wants to consider all aspects of the situation today. All possible groups should be taken into account but not done. They may have been talking to groups, but where does the bill show that they have been taken for granted? Hv. A senator says: There must be extensive consultation. It's got to be settled. All empty phrases that have been used since the beginning of this matter. But nothing has been done with them because of the highest. Environment Minister has an opinion that is the government's opinion, and everyone else is, like the Supreme Court. The general president explained, in their view, a slight crying of my things. So they should believe that after the election, when voters are no longer hanging over the board, there's something to mark that they say they're going to listen and take into account all the opinions? [[The president calls.]] They've been listening, but the viewpoints haven't been taken into account, there's just one vision. And that vision stands in opposition to the view of those who have criticized this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u130	V.E.G. President. I have to say, for the first time I started talking about a highland park was when I got a Senate document on the top of the Environment and Transport Committee. Minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, for good. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, nominated as Minister. Since then, this matter has been on the program for the Generals. I'm not going to excuse myself from discussing such important issues as Iceland's highlands. I'm not gonna do that. I happily share in this work and have, as I have come in many times, listened to the people, presented the parapolitic report with all these emphasis and comments, and so on. This bill has never been approved. I have a lot of notice about this bill. We're not going to accept the bill. It's because they were listening to the people, first through the report and then the reviews came to the Committee and the reviews that came before the committee and the work on the case are made a paradox, not an opinion of accepting the bill as unchanged. It's no more complicated than that. You see, it's nothing more complicated than that. Although there was a bill that wasn't exactly by the people's will, it's not that we've written the bill, because we're not suggesting that it's approved. So it's a little weird to watch these stage photos that the Middle East is trying to invite the public here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u131	Mr. President. I want to thank you again. A senator for being the only voice of the Independence Party here, the expected ones don't dare, and it's respectable by reason of reason. Senator. But I'm going to have to take less of it. A senator will, in view of his words just before, that you agreed to the bill. This was agreed on by the preparatory committee of all except members of the Central Party. It was approved by the government, and it was approved in the administration groups, as approved by the members of the General Assembly. It's been submitted. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment went through the country and introduced the matter, as the generals and members of the council had agreed. He did not receive much, but he explained that this was all a misunderstanding. But now people are running away, not because they now have conviction that they have been wrong by trampling on this matter here, but because it's about to start elections, and it's so much easier just to finish this after the election when they're four years in the next one than to have to do it right before the next election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u132	A respectable president. It is wrong that the transnational committee approved the bill. While the bill was there for discussion, the transnational committee refused to place its name on that bill and never signed it rather than on the report. I specifically issued the report as a representative of the Independence Party in it, in order to be absolutely clear. V.E.G. Environment Minister brought the bill to the council's last assembly, which did not come to the council. In the meantime, he goes back and meets his communities and makes changes in the bill, and that's what comes to the council with a lot of cautions. I've been over my notice here in this speech chair. But we wanted to let the bill come to the council to bring out the debate, in order to get some political treatment on the case, call for the public's will and opinions on this matter, allow the council to deal with the matter, as is often done in the matter of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u133	Mr. President. I come here in my second speech on this high-national bill and will discuss only the position we are looking at and in the light of what happened. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Árnason earlier, that it is unusual, of course, that a government contract is made not to establish a highland park. Especially in the board of directors, a group known to protect farmers and rural society's interest throughout the country and has long been counted in those areas, but it seems that long afterward they are surprised to learn that there is tremendous opposition to the whole country among farmers and rural societys that they are merely taken off with this bill. Yet they enter the administration bed four years ago. I suppose they do, because the Ministers have been waiting there and are quite tempting. The Independence Party, a category of jobs, innovations, and productions also sign this government contract four years ago and agree to the formation of a central national park. At the time, it was perfectly obvious that humans were not talking about any small park. paritaprevir Will Árnason. All we need to do is look at a Lake Earth park, which is pretty big. Yet, they do, hopefully, as often as they did in the Independence Party, to keep their power in place, and perhaps even to the power. They did not expect such opposition. But they were to be perfectly aware, as at this point, that energy efficiency in the highlands would be put into complete uncertainty. And they're going to repeat the game now with this contraption he says so, which may not be the right name. It's not a good idea to call it a paradox because it's a requirement that a minister submit a bill. Talking about it as if this is a reference does not tell half the story because it is stated in this reference form that environmental Ministers will be committed to presenting a new bill on the subject. It's a deduction. So go on. It's no use deceiving voters by talking in speculations, talking about conversations, talking about meeting people and talking about things. This was clearly shown in the opposite direction that it has been done. We've been this way. Get caught up again? Yeah, they do that enough, pretty often. But I still think the people around the country, who have a bitter experience with it in many ways, at least those who express themselves in the comments such as these outdoors and tourism and tourism, that there's a lot of overadministration that comes with these devices and, of course, people do things like that, don't be fooled. Of course, we should be careful to add this national park, a huge lakeland park, and add the setting, to the way we handle that area. No, the government is going to take over one third of the country's park under a national park, although there is evidence of a lakeland park that will directly scream that it will be taken care of, reinvented, done better, gained more experience, and tried to perform a national park. This tour is very strange, Mr. President. It's very strange to intend to go back into this. And if it will be the same government, i.e. These three categories, it's just a promise that the matter will be revealed right here at the next Council from the Environment Minister, and I won't talk about it if it's the same thing. Environment Minister. There were many in the same way. The matter was naturally badly worked, and all this consultation and all these conversations, and all these meetings were for showtime only, the highest. President, because there was no sign in the bill that anyone in the preparation was generally heard. I came to a meeting of my own. It was spreading the good news, talking for a short time, and then a minister was gone. This is the discussion, and this is the conversation you are always talking about. This is highly overrated, Mr. President. But the left green entered the administrative community, such as men calming to fish and rowing three together. And then when they get to the ticket, when the election approaches, and the one in the lead of the boat goes down with as much energy as he can, he looks around and sees that the other two are just laying down. There's no help for them. That's how the left green must have felt in the past. During the past December, members of the Independence Party and the Foreign Assembly suddenly woke up to the bad dream that these may be in great opposition to people in many parts of the earth, around the country, by rural governments, and by the rest of the party coming to the highlands. Then they set out to build a warning, a warning to all who had not been seen before. They are not in the government covenant. Where did these warnings come from? They were just scared to shit - I'm sorry, President, that I used those words, but they were getting really scared that they would get hurt in the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u134	The search for the guards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u135	- Yeah. I now liken it to war this morning. I imagined that it was going to battle, and it would gather three sides, the left, and the green, and the forwarding party, and they would set up their forces and would go up to the hills. The left green would be in charge of these matters so that they would be there at the front, expecting that it would be an overpower and that they would have easy victory. Then they come up on the hills. Then a vast army of opposers, a large army, appeared. Left green is going to go back to battle and blow horns. But just before they go forward, they look back and see only in the heels of their companions. They're gone. They've left the scene. I can only imagine what that experience has been like. But again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u136	Mr. President. In my first speech I went over, as others have noted here, that by this matter, the government groups have concluded that they will continue on the same path, the highland park will be completed on the same terms, and these groups will be able to move on. Since then, it has become clear in the discussion, with talks from what? Councilmen of Groups and Pirata, if left rule is formed, they will be further advanced. They don't think it's enough to be in control here, on the central control of the highlands, and close, that's going to go even further. It is clear that the only hope for making sense in this matter is that the Central Party has the opportunity to continue doing what he has done, to prevent this disaster. The case and debate have been strongly based on the New Age political characteristics of this government, which is all about bandages and declared goals, but the contents and real effects are overlooked. The same is true in so many other matters, such as climate accepted earlier today. It's all about bandages and declared goals, but not about reality. Of course, these are closely related issues because by preventing environmental renewable energy generation in Iceland, as this case would have done, we are in fact responding to climate change. There is also a serious concern about this matter, I feel, as I only mentioned in the previous talk, that it is in a way humane. It is a process of evolution that has been undergone in the past, where a certain group of people view humans as having little place in nature, a foreign body. It may be noted, then, that when the first park was founded in Iceland, a Þingvagal park, especially under the leadership of the Jónsson frá Hrifla, the son of Hurflu, it was especially due to the local history of the people and the link between nature and mankind and the history there. But it's given a whole other share, a tribunal that's supposed to take much of the country from under democratic rule and from us men, us Icelanders, to as much as humans get away with it. And how much will humans get away with? Well, it's in the bill that if this bill had been approved, the Minister's permission to walk on the song is almost unlimited. True, various groups of associates are given a measure of authority, not all of them, primarily members of a community, unscrupulous people, not democratic elections in public, given specific authority if they are the right groups. But other groups that have enjoyed the highlands for decades do not get the same approach. However, the minister can issue an order of the administration and, in addition, by Regulation, can change the national governance and protection programme. By Regulation, a minister can also change the legal influence of a management and protection programme and can expand the national park, a peace-declared additional area. It is worth considering that the management and protection programmes are expected to also cover perimeters, although we do not know exactly how much space this perimeter should take. So, if this had been approved, the possibility of enforcing this new medium - controlled power is almost unlimited. For example, authorities were expected to forbid motor vehicle vehicles and that those who planned to operate in this park to form tourism should do so on the basis of contracts, special contracts where paying expenses. It's being directed into the process that there may be some who may be there. It may be rich foreigners who can pay best, but the public in Iceland has to face obstacles, is either not allowed to go into the highlands of motor vehicles or have to pay to enjoy their own nature in some sort of cry system, apparently, which was proposed here. What is remarkable about this case is that neither the public rights nor the rights of possession are protected in this matter, on the contrary, at these fundamental values of the legal state. Then the government here brings in what some call a deliberation proposal, expected to try to erase the matter, we've seen that there has been a small participation in this discussion by members of the board. But it would be more correct to call this a new start, or perhaps the first chapter of their revised government contracts that appoint the present government, for it is absolutely clear to continue with the case on the same terms as the government has won it. True, it is added to seek out consultations and listening, taking into account all groups of people. But we've heard all this before. This play has been shown once, and it has escaped. Now, people are confident that we've forgotten that we've gone through all this process, all this phrase, all this empty phrase, in the past, that people forget and swallow it and that they're going to be listened, and now they're going to be taken into account. The problem is, there were quite different views on this matter, and the government made a decision. She decided to respect a certain viewpoint and not another, and she did so in a very direct way in this matter, for not all viewpoints can be agreed on in such controversial matters. However, the government may have been clear about the viewpoint she was going to accept, i.e. looking at closures, views of incompetent medium-controlled power over much of the country. Not a viewpoint like that, as reflected in the dozens of reports on this subject, which were highly critical of the matter for various reasons. The situation is light. It was successful to prevent the completion of the bill in the way the government proposed, in the manner agreed by members of the administration team, in the manner established by the Treaty, that the case should be carried out by a committee that gave its decision, the minister would bring his bill, all approved in the government and in the administrations. It was successful to prevent the issue from reaching its end. But here, for a special discussion, to make it clear to everyone, from a sitting body of government, that they will have the opportunity to continue together, they will pick up the thread that was gone, and then there will be no need to be afraid of elections until four years later. It will likely be much easier to put up the play again, the entire flight play, and take the same stand as the last one, with an incompetent media control in the highlands, and hope that the voters will have forgotten that one more trip to the next election. It is important that the voters know what classes are and can be confident that they will do what they say they will do. That's what the Central Party will do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u137	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss the social deportation of the governments on this highland park. An expansive group and an independent group have signed that they intend to continue this case during the next term if there is a continuation of the government work. Interestingly, then, this situation has come up. I have to say, when the case was spoken last year, I believed it to the highest. The Environment Minister would present himself with a well-worked case and with those concerned, including high-seated rural areas. The community, news, and other discussions were that they were working on the matter in a very broad way with all parties. But there was another day. When I'm at the highest. A minister spoke for the case came to this public assembly of other administrations, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, with a thick stack of comments on the matter. Yet, it was the case in the government Treaty when the government was founded, so you may have thought that the case would be well pleased with all the government groups. But this may reflect the combination of this government, the government of the broad appeal, these diverse categories that merely agree to do as little as possible, and if something they do doesn't agree on is going to belittle because they find it difficult to get together to take a big step because the political reality of these classes is that way. So it was of interest in 1st. to the maximum. President of the Generals, 2nd. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, said that there is only a crying memory of things opposed to this case, a loud crying memory of things. But there was another day. This is a large organization that has been very active in loud and rationalizing and that shows how the work has been around this high-inland national bill. So I was very disappointed in the Supreme Court. The environmental minister used a false rumor when he said that the matter was very well worked and in general at peace with all parties. It was not even in harmony with the members of the government that are best seen in the answers still in place of the other government class. V.E.G. President. I'd like to grab here in an article written before Christmas last year, just like this, to review the situation that was then in this discussion about the bill. With President's permission, she'll say this way: ▪ A TV for the establishment of a Highland National Park allows for a park to cover a region that includes peoples within a so - called highland line. The area is about 30 to40% of Iceland. Part of it lies within a lakeland park or is dependent on another peaceful light. A discussion of the matter is of little importance to whether any negative factors follow the present situation and what is sacrificed. It is bad if a misunderstanding is used to further the situation. Is the oversight of the highlands of some small rural communities today? No. Much of the highlands are national. They are the property of the State, but they assume that national provision is basically common with the Ministry of Presidency and the local community. This order was established and explained by the 1998 National Code, which pointed to the importance of localisation. The Ministry of Presidency confirms all the measures to use national resources if they charge a fee or they do it more than one year. The Ministry of Presidency adopted national use policies in February 2019. The management of the highlands is also shown in planning plans. In March 2016, rural development is the last to be adopted by the General. A special consideration of the central highlands is provided in a rural organization that includes a major policy on land use in the highlands. Is the management of the highlands now independent of nature's protection? No. The Ministry's policy on the use of nationalisation, agriculture, and the main structure of rural society is based on a lot of wealth in regard to nature protection in the highlands. Natural protection laws also include general protection, and new laws for the protection of the uninhabited countries have much to do with the highlands. The controls of new nature protection laws can be especially useful there. When preparing a highland park, no analysis has been made in areas where there is a reason for peace reporting beyond that of others. Based on the proposals for the integration of Highland National Park in specific nature protection terms? No. Neither so - called centralized line nor national delinquency have any connection with natural processes. The Middle East line was set in 1997 to coordinate planning matters by the head of the central highland team, representing the rural community, which reached the region. Nationals are land-sufficiency and are situated within and outside the central highland line. Will the establishment of a highland park extend over the highlands closer to the nation and democratically elected representatives? No. National rights administration is now by the Ministry of Presidency and individual rural administrations, but organizationally by the Generals and localists. The nature of a case says it's a business institution and public influence, e.g. with regular review of planning plans. In national parks, governments and environmental ministers were to have a temporary and organizational arrangement, as well as regulations for orderliness and activities in the park. In the administrations of local representatives, Ministers, etc., without direct democratic authority. With a national park, a democracies would be offered at a time of 2,300 elected representatives and healthy power distribution by the arrival of both rural and national governments. Has the use of highland interests been extensively identified? No. A national park provides a permanent provision for special interests, especially in the field of nature protection and cultural history. In particular in the form of policy or national agendas, the International Parliament and the Government work out national interests in various areas. One of the national programmes for energy efficiency, i.e. A national protection and energy efficiency framework. A bill on a highland national park will dissociate that job, both due to activation initiatives under the evaluation 4th step of the Framework Programme and by a large part of the country, all to the future. There are also other national programmes, such as transport, communications, energy policy, national networks, etc. The interest of such estimates would have to be based on a national park's objective. The potential for assessment of national and national global interests for the highlands is considerablely limited. Of course, those who are convinced of the benefits of the provision of the 303/40% of the country's special night protection, where there will be no room to look to other interests and officials without a democratic commission. A political class with that protocol was recently measured with a 7.4% follow-up. Where is the power of a park limited? The management of the park is based on the management and protection programme and regulations that support the national park's objectives. The result is that there are persons and activities in the area that depend on special laws in addition to the national law. A highland national park will be a kingdom. National activity has many characteristics of a dictatorial state, since rulers do not get democratically elected and work on a narrowly defined policy. [...] It is claimed that the Highland National Park would be the largest in Europe. It seems more like an argument against the case. No other country has ever thought of such an arrangement for the land's greater interests and indifference for future interests. Clearly, the decision to make a highland park is premature. Great benefits come from the present responsible state and rural society and the democratic distribution of authority under the oversight of the highlands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u138	A respectable president. This harsh speech is actually taking on the reviving of life by making more of its members. The government groups directly state that the matter is over in the next term. Today, the case gets a new start. We have observed in the wonder that this has been a late notice, especially from representatives of the Annexe Party, who somehow appeared to have taken this case without knowing what it is, since there are no warnings in the government's administration contract - none. You wonder about the integrity of politics. Although I am completely opposed to the case as it is suggested, representatives of the left movement are a few pityes in terms of the tractors they represent at the hands of groups of fellow workers. We in the Central Party have been completely clean and direct with this case all along. I personally told myself of the preparatory group that was preparing the case because I didn't think of the direction to which it was headed. It is of interest to consider who have spoken here today other than we represent the Central Party, who are truly concerned about these matters. Here one representative from the left movement spoke a green candidate - one; the judge of the case, hm. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. And here, one representative of the Independence Party spoke, why. paritaprevir Will Árnason. It's been spoken by one of the Anarchy's agents, okay? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. But then, two former members of the left movement have talked about the green offer, perhaps highlighting the problem of the team's cooperation in now, but it seems that the forward team and the independent party have somehow decided to move to the next election period in this cooperation and only put it on the table that it will be given the premise that a new case of highland parks will be submitted. Mr. President. In agreement with the end of the council, this discussion will be concluded, but the matter remains, although the members of the Central Party are now disfellowshipped from the rosary. The fight against the establishment of highlands is just beginning. At the end of this discussion, I'd like to review the conclusion of the deliberation proposal for the greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, which says, on permission of the President: In this respect, the greater part suggests that the case will be referred to the government and the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to submit a new bill on the matter... This leaves no room for misunderstanding. The government groups now sitting there are going to finish the case in the next term, although at present the independence and forwardees did not trust to meet their voters with that message. It is quite surprising that the representatives of an independent party and a forwarding party at work. The Environment and Transport Committee suggests that a new highland park bill will be submitted for the next terms, provided the task list laid for Ministers in the list of the main areas to be met by the Minister's assessment. So it's heading to the same porridge in the same bowl, continuing its existing administrative functions. The only way to ensure protection in this case, to combat the establishment of the highlands, is to ensure a strong Central Party during the next term. Just now, reports were coming up that the head of the Agency wanted to see the same political pattern after the election. It's only in front of us now. It was kept to report this to the end of this discussion. [[Up front.]] This matter is to be completed in the first decade of a new election period, led by an independent party, advance, and left movement, but it is only that representatives of an independent party and a forwarding party are afraid to meet their voters now and bear this message. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I restate on the fact that the only defense against the development of highlands is a strong Central Party in the next term.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u139	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending a commission about billing the market for financiers. The bill suggests that new global market laws for financiers gain value. By the law the Council and Council Directive 2014/65/EU will be on the market for financing and change of Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive 2011/61/EU (MiFID2) and of the Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 600/2014 on the financial initiative market and on the change in Regulation (EU) No 37/2010. 6482/2012 (MiFIR) introduced into Icelandic correctly. In the financial and economic memo to the Commission, today. May 26, 2021, is proposed to change the bill that most of the parts have passed and will do their part. Key changes result from indications in the comments received, others for correction, and in harmony with other financial bills that have been discussed by the Committee at the same time. These changes are attributed to the committee opinion, and I'm not going to review them right now. These are material changes, and then there are some technicalities that are not meant to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Under these words, Brubbur Níelsson's son, Director Jón Steindór Kárason, Valdimarsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Björk Bryjolf's Haraldsdóttir, Bortidsdótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u140	V.E.G. President. I'm here to present a commission on a bill to legalize the stock market. The committee received reports, and many came to her, but the bill suggested that the whole budget of stocks be obtained, which solves the current stock laws, No. 128/2011, out. The European Parliament's Directive and the Council's 2014/91/EU shall include with the Actual Directive 2009/65/EC on the implementation of the European Parliament and the European Parliament's European Parliament's Council as well as the Commission's Directive 2009/65/EB for the variation to the terms of the terms of the stock market (UCITS) for the jobs, labour policy and the Directive 2010/78/ESB on the change in Directives 98/26/EC, 2002/87/EC, 2003/EC, 2003/EEC, 2003/71/EC, 2004/EEC, 2004/60/EEC, 2006/48/2009,EC and 2009/65/EC, respectively, under the scope of the scope of the European Commission (EEC) and National Competent Authority (EEC). In the financial and economic memo, today. On May 20, 2021, we find the Ministry's response to reports received by the committee and to the changes made to the majority. The changes are mainly technical and are referred to in the Ministry's memo on their subject. In addition, the greater part contributes to technological change and is not meant to have material influence, including corrections on cross-references and conformity of the bill to other primes and changes to financial legislation that the committee has discussed with the case. The rest suggests that the law's taking effect on September 1st, 2021. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Under these words was Braunn the Brynjar of Níelsson, President Óli Björn Kárason, President Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjolf's Bryndís, Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u141	President. I would like to submit a report of the Commission and the Commission on the opinion of an agent due to the status of individuals who are not recommended in their dealings with the government. By letter, by day. On August 13, 2020, the president of the Generals sent the commission to the Allegis No. 9938/2018, of the initiative checkup on the status of individuals not recommended in their relations with the government, to the management and monitoring committee for discussion. The committee has discussed the matter and received to Anna Rut Kristjánsdóttir and Hallgrímur J. Ámundason from the Ministry of Presidency, Halldóra Gunnarsdóttir, Linda Rós Alfreðsdóttir, and Hrafnhildur Kvaran of Social Affairs, Tatjana Latinovic of the Foreign Affairs, Linda Cállus Gunnarsdótir of the Multicultery, Guðrún Margrét Guðmundsdóttir, and Kjartansdóttir from the Allied Association of Iceland, Joanna Marcinkowska from the Office of Tryggvi and Þórhallsson from the European Union of Iceland. In recent years an agent has received some tips and complaints as a result of government response to business matters from people who are not recommended in the United States. In view of significant changes in domestic composition in Iceland, these issues have increased. Among other things, it has been said that there is a need for counsel and answers in a language understood by the individual and that adequate interpretation services have been lacking. It has been noted in the Committee that governments are generally seeking to ensure that persons who do not understand the Icelandic language are provided with a solution and appropriate assistance. However, the legal setting of these matters is indiscriminate. When legal requirements fail, there is a obligation to deal with citizens in another language other than English in general and ecstatic laws. As a result, governments deal with them in different ways, and there is little harmony among them despite any comparable decisions they may make. Government workers are in a position to be unsure of the duties involved in the use of languages in their dealings with those who do not speak or understand English in these cases. It was observed in the case of visitors that the results of an agent become a cohesion in the experience of many of those who are not recommended in their dealings with the government. It is important to take decisive action to prevent misunderstandings that can lead to suspicion of government. Especially is this so in delicate matters, such as family matters in the state of the county. In the case of the advisers, it has been observed that efforts are made to strengthen the position of those not recommended in this country, including ... withtherichgirls. The objective is to enable nonverbal people to have professional interpretations of and in their own languages in relations with governments and services. Then the Ministry of Presidency is scheduled to take the commission for further consideration. The views presented in the opinion of an agent will be transmitted to all advisers and considered to be guided by education in the Theocratic Ministry School. Although these matters are being handled in the Council of Control, it is clear that a part of the government does not believe that it does not result from administrative regulations and/or unscrupulous governmental regulations that must be given to individuals who do not understand Icelandic assistance and direction in a language they understand. It can be concluded that this inconsistencies can be caused, among other things, by the conflicting legal framework. Therefore, the committee encourages prime minister in charge and coordination within the European Commission to continue working to ensure the consistent interpretation of recruitment and institutions when it comes to administrative regulations and rights so that those who do not understand the Icelandic language get help and guidance in a language they understand. This work can be focused on the implementation of governments that deal with sensitive social and family issues. The Commission then feels that the regulations of the administrative law aimed at ensuring the right of citizens in the preparation of government decisions in their affairs will be reviewed with the view that they recommend the clear right of citizens to obtain their release in a language that they understand. With reference to this discussion, the committee proposes, dr. 2 mg. Twenty-six. The Act on the General Assembly, that the Council accepts a so-called synonym: The General concluded to hide a prime minister, on behalf of the government, the implementation of a uniform government operation on the use of languages in non-speaking or understanding Icelandic people so that their treatment would be compatible with the written rules of government. At the same time, the agent's opinion is in case of No. 9938/018 laid the groundwork in reviewing the administrative law now held in the Ministry of Presidency with the aim of ensuring a reasonable manner of civil participation that does not speak or understand Icelandic in preparing government decisions on their affairs. The committee is now moving it so that it does not have to be suggested again to the committee, and this is a discussion in accordance with the guidelines for later discussions of the synonym. I suggest that we back up the opinion of an agent on this matter that needs to be adjusted in our legal system and supported by the plans and actions that have already begun in the Ministry of Presidency and that the Council supports by its votes of Congress so that we all back up that these cases are true.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u142	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a medical report on the management and treatment of adult disabled persons with developmental impairment and adult patients with mental illness. The committee discussed the matter with reference to the Council of Congress, which states that although the council did not specifically refer to it, at any time a committee is allowed to discuss matters under its scope. On the basis of the arrangement, the committee decided to discuss the management and treatment of adult disabled persons with developmental impairment and adult patients with mental illness. A recent report on the construction of Eagleholti's home followed by a letter dated November 12, 2020, from the National Institutes of Development and the National Institutes of Mental Help. The letter was signed by The Héðinn Unnsteinsson, president of the Psychias, and Bryndís of the daughter of Snæbjörnsdóttir, president of the Matrisk. The letter challenged the committee to be made in part independent of an investigation into the application and treatment of adult disabled persons with developmental impairment and adult patients with psychiatric disorders for the past 80 years in Iceland. The letter also requested a review of the mental wards and measures that the Landspians and other hospitals were doing during that time. The organization then recommended that the necessary legalization be attacked, so that the data needed to be covered in this investigation could be hidden. Then a recent report of serious indications of poor security and mental health care systems has given further reason for the attack of such a study and to include events up to today. A panel held a meeting on the subject, many, and at the hearing of the committee came Una Björk Ómarsdóttir and Benedikt Árnason of the Ministry, Þórhallur Vilhjálmsson and Laufey Helga Unnsteinsson from the Alduary's Legal Office, Friðrik Sigurðsson, and Snæbjörnsdóttir of the National Institutes of Héðinn. Last November, at a meeting of the Committee, members of the Committee requested a memo from the General Department of Justice, which would be compared on the basis of a law on research committees and a study that would be entrusted to the Commission's administrative committee. A law office's memo, dated November 23, 2020, did not determine which option was better than it was replaced by a variety of laws on which the study could be based. The law office stressed the choice of research tools that fit each study to be successful, not to be overly reserved for work time and cost, and to produce the desired results. It also stated in the memo that regardless of the choice of research, preparation of the study would be required. Excessive preparation would be essential for the donation of the synonym, in the case of the order of an investigator, or a legislation on the dilation of the set of laws of a research committee in the case of a administrative committee. At that same meeting of the committee last November, the chairman and his vice president proposed a preliminary investigation of its scope. It was suggested to seek information from the Ministry of Presidency on how parallel research had been carried out, the best options and the scope of research might be due to the information that might exist in the Ministry. At the same time, the Ministry's opinion on whether there was sufficient improvement for the collection of information necessary was requested so that the study brought out the facts and presented the route of service to these vulnerable groups. The Ministry of Presidency sent a report on the subject in February 2021. In particular, the Ministry considers two ways to be considered when requesting an official investigation of this kind; a research committee issued by the Council on the basis of a legislation on the Committee on Research Committee or the Ministry's Committee requiring special legal legislation. Since the size of the study could be large, it is necessary to define its target well at baseline, including to which institutions and years of them will reach and to what aspects of the work should be especially focused. Whether to set up the council committee or to initiate a administrative study, the situation needs to be properly prepared. It also needs to be clear and set the reporting and reporting framework of the committees, lawsuits, etc. In addition, the Committee needs to appoint specialists and staff for the project. The Ministry does not take sides on which route to go, i.e. A federal committee or a government investigation by the Ministry involved in the legislation. The Ministry also cites the possibility of doing a detailed historical assessment involving professional mapping of the current policies and currents involved in the management and management of the groups in question. Then information would also be collected on the number of institutions that have rendered these groups service over the years. Such a evaluation would not need to be fixed, but it could become an important basis for determining whether to make an investigation, what the purpose of the analysis, and how far back in time would be right to go. Therefore, a good historical and professional assessment may be advisable to take the first step to better appreciate the scope of the project, the availability of data on the function, and other factors that could become aware of the activities of such institutions. After such a report estimated by the Ministry could take up to one year, a decision would be made to determine whether, on what legal basis, and how far back in the time of the investigation should be made, and whether to appoint a board of inquiry by the General Assembly or the Ministry of Directors. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that prior work should be initiated at a maximum of six months, where the project would be mapped for households and institutions and individuals who stayed there. The secretary will submit the General following this preliminary report with the suggestion of an investigation, number of years, and study questions. The Committee believes that it is important for the National Institute of Mental Health and the National Association to help develop a common representative of users involved in a decision-clad analysis. This organization has fought hard for the rights of its clients and took the initiative to send talks to the committee. In addition, it is important that one expert with appropriate knowledge of the study methods and format of study questions is involved in this job in order to get the most ready for the test to be carried out. The committee stresses that at the time of the study, the application and treatment of adult disabled persons with developmental impairment and adult patients with psychiatric problems today will be considered specifically. The scope of study and research questions is based on the results of this conditioning work and the aim of an investigation to start later than the spring of 2022. It is important that the General take their stand and set the research tools that are appropriate on the basis of the preproducts. Is it suggested that the welfare committee discuss the report of a minister and, in turn, may suggest a resolution for an investigation, either by the Board of Directorates or by the Commission's Committee, in accordance with the Commission's legislation. With reference to this, the welfare committee suggests, in accordance with the General Assembly Council of Parliamentary Directives on the application and treatment of adult disabled persons with developmental impairment and adult mental illness, i.e. that the Council conclude to assign the prime minister to a committee of three men. The Committee shall have a representative from the Ministry of Presidency, an experienced expert with knowledge of the implementation and production of research and a representative of the National Institute of Psychiatry and the National Society as a common subject of Development aid. The Committee will conduct an assessment that will gather detailed information on the activities of ecosystems for the adult disabled with developmental impairment and adult patients with psychiatric problems. Special attention will be given to the management and management of residents in recent years up to today. The Committee will explain the benefits and defects of two study routes, one study of the Commission and the other in accordance with the WHO protocols. The committee submitted its findings to the prime minister no later than December 1. in the setting of proposals for the magnitude of a formal study for the management and management of the above groups in ecosystems, for the period of such study and for study questions. Prime Minister will submit a report on the results of the Commission and propose a study arrangement to be started no later than in the spring of 2022. According to this, it is suggested that this be submitted to the Council for approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u143	A respectable president. I don't come up here directly to demand answers. I want to express gratitude to the welfare committee for reviewing this important, delicate and difficult subject that we need to take a close look at, holding our most vulnerable groups. I listened to the talk and the report of the chairman of the Committee and the Transporter, and it seems to me that this has been at peace within the committee, as I understood it, that there might be something wrong. A senator would inform and see if she expects this report, this review, to be ready for December of this year, as I understood why. A senator. At the same time, I want to thank you for this important job and I'm glad we get it done. I would have liked to have more discussions about this, but we're on the last score here. I repeat, it is extremely important to consider this matter now before we finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The report itself should not be completed after six months but the form and study questions to be provided with a prospective committee to work in the coming years and years. This is not a small task, but it was an agreement on the committee that it was more important to be closer in time than far away so that we can really learn something from this study for today's treatment, for we have, of course, heard of the modern application. Therefore, we felt that it was important for a decision-making committee to have a very well-defined research question, to have a separate period that should be investigated to obtain a report, to receive the results of a research committee, whether it will be here at the General Assembly or to a management committee, I myself have certain opinions, because such work may, of course, extend over years, years, years, or decades, even if you are going too far and you want to go too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u145	A respectable president. That explains a lot. I couldn't quite connect it. I think these are important research questions that are presented but because of that. A senator talks about years, and I hope that it's not being watched for years, years, or decades. I wondered how short it is to be looking at the equipment now, since better yet, the equipment of disabled, mature, depressed people is being done today than just 20, 10, how much more so 5 years ago. But can we learn something from today's situation? Or we simply rely on that surveillance as such. National surgeons and other health - care centres should be performed? Or is this a historical lesson that we would like to draw in to learn from in order to improve the entire system to embrace these groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u146	A respectable president. I want to thank you again. A senator's heartfelt interest in this question is because it is also very important. Sadly, the stories we hear today are not reassuring. At the General Assembly, we were asked by our surgeon about the surveillance and access of the office to monitor what is taking place in closed departments and told that there are four surgeons who are in charge of other jobs to supervise all health and welfare services in Iceland. These are over 2,000 places that these four employees should investigate. Last visit to the Justice and Security Department went, e.g. ..................................................... In these wards, there are people who are locked up, some for weeks, others for months and still others for a few years. Of course, the inadequacy of the office is such an inadequacy to monitor these institutions. As for the investigation, I believe it is very personally important that this should be discussed with the Council's Committee for Study Committees because the Alguage Acts are extremely good, because at that time of legalization, the General of the Council was familiar with the authority of the research Committee to provide information and the obligation of people to attend to reporting would be very broad. That's why these laws are so good and much better and they have much more confidence than getting a administrative committee inside the administrative system, which is responsible for the whole system, to increase confidence that the study will become more professional. The reason we don't move a council agreement on a committee now is that in such a synonym, the questions have to be formalized and they come at the end of this year. [[The president calls.]] These are the questions we will have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u147	A respectable president. I recommend here for a revised proposal for a bill for a budget as a matter of course. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valddorsson is a messenger, and I'm moving in on behalf of him and us. In these last records, when we were discussing the budget, it was reported that the addition to high school was so that more than 30 disabled individuals, children, could not get into high school. I know it's always a puzzle in the last yards to get everyone into high school, disabled as a mess, but what we're not supposed to do is to publish these bad uncertainty messages that cause home, environment, and families of these individuals not only an increase in feelings of distress but also to create uncertainty about what the future will do, what will take place. We have to start taking care of our hands there. I hope you can fix this. Why, though, is it that we are being pushed so cheerfully now? Yes, because they're more than 30 children. The answer to the Ministry is: It's just a lot more than usual. We've been pointing out that we've known this for 16 years. These are not individuals who suddenly become disabled, with developmental inhibition, or otherwise, they are individuals who turn to their career courses. It is unique to visit high school careers and to see how varied and amazing work is done there, a job that is tried to promote the abilities, abilities, and needs of the individuals in question. We need to make sure that these individuals receive answers and are able to fill in their lives. Their quality of life may be improved if the school system is equipped to do so, and I say: It's made up, but it seems that money has not followed so that it can respond clearly to these and their families: Yes, you can get into high school, either where you applied or elsewhere. It is important to guide them and especially to give clear answers. The question group is very connected, the kids send out messages, and they are very excited to watch for any school each one of them. It is more than tears to see when one or perhaps two people fail to follow their group into a certain school. This can be fixed. We've shown a tremendous amount of rubber and elk during this time of virus. We've been preparing people, companies, and people to analyze the problem as soon as necessary. Now the problem is that these 30 children do not get into high school for the time being. I know that the Ministry is working on it, and I hope that this discussion has at least provided a way of making it shake up in the Ministry to complete this case as soon as possible. If there is no money left for the schools who normally have to work within the framework of the budget, and that is the case, that call must be answered. That is why we propose this proposal for further promotion to high school so that new students can be assured on career courses and special courses, these over 30 students, will be saved in schools that best fit their circumstances and needs. Of course, no one is better affected than the individual himself, with parents and caregivers. This amount corresponds to the advice of employees or teachers needed to answer that call. I encourage members of Congress and Congress to listen to the call of these disabled individuals and their parents to finish this matter as soon as possible. Do not let the uncertainty, insecurity, and all the hard feelings it brings us deep into the summer. Let's settle the matter, and let's do it with dignity. We can finish a few things here with some cohesion and cooperation, and we should be able to do the same with this case. That is why we suggest that we show ourselves to rest. This wonderful organization can also react rapidly when our brothers and sisters, especially in need of compassion and extramarital care, are called. We are to answer that call. That is why I urge us here to accept this suggestion from us so that the schools can immediately begin sending these wonderful people answers that they have entered high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u148	President. I bring here a bill to correct the change in administrative law, No. 37/1993 (concommenced to the court or police) from the administrative and surveillance committee. 1st par. The bill reads: ▪2. A sentence. 5 mg. 43. g. The law will pass away. 2.g. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The bottom line of the matter is a correction of the law adopted at the last assembly, where confidentiality was being fixed but a fault that the need for confidentiality could be removed if the information was necessary in judicial matters. The purpose was that it would be only possible to abandon this period of silence in the judicial case itself and be kept closed. However, as the text reads, if this information were to be used in judicial cases, it would be out of complete obligation to the information under which the law was not intended and not in harmony with the good principles of the legal state and personal protection. The Board of Directors and Commission gave a tip about this from the Ministry of Presidency, and there was a change in proposal that we could move to do this rapidly and carefully and effectively and establish this adjustment into a law for the justice in our country. I'm suddenly going to the report: This is being moved by the Commission and Commission committee at the request of the Ministry of Presidency and in consultation with Iceland's Secret Bank. This suggests changes to 43rd. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993. With an approved law No. 71/209 was added a new chapter to the administrative law on freedom of expression and confidentiality to employees of state and rural society. The chapter was based on Dr. Jumbo's suggestions. Hreinsson Purgeon, president of the EFTA Court, was appointed by the Ministry of Presidency for the restoration of Communication legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom, provided final access and consultation on the subject of the bill that became the law of No. 71/2019. A paper with the bill explains that in view of the information given by Iceland's National Bank on the matter, there are other factors. This change in 43.g. that the silent fall may result in the conviction of a judge that information is required to be given to the court or the police. Though a witness is obligated by a court order to witness to the court or to give information to the police, Páll Hreinsson has noted that silence is considered to be maintained. When such information is given to the court, court councils are generally closed, and members of the council are bound to remain silent and protect the guilt of justice. Then, in the decision of a judge, the main conclusion is whether it is appropriate to use silent information that has resulted in a completely different purpose than the treatment of a criminal case. The decision, however, does not mean that there will be nothing easy on the information. In theory and conduct, it has been considered that when an individual is moved to provide information on the subject of silence, either under the direction of a law or a court order, the subject remains silent. Checkered includes: support for the results of Iceland's Supreme Court from June 3, 2014 (329/2014) where a society required to obtain a more specific section of the reports provided by the 8 Peoples of Iceland's Council Committee for the General Assembly investigation of the conduct and cause of falling of the 2008 bank and related events, No. 142/2008. The Supreme Court's decision agreed to the court's decision that the Society should not be allowed to report beyond what the informed employees were obliged to inform on the basis of regulations for testifying in court of law, and it was concluded that the responsibility of the workers to provide information in accordance with the law of No. 142/2008 could not change the fact that the information depends on silence. 1.mg. Thirty-five. environmental law on Iceland's Federal Bank, No. 36/2001. According to the above, it is clear that the decision to give any information to the court or to the police does not affect whether the information is related to confidentiality. So the 2nd matter is suggested. Section 5. 43. g. Governmental Laws, No. 37/1993, will be removed, with his contents clearly in conflict with this principle. Since the committee presents the case, it does not have to be referred to a committee between 1 and 2. So I suggest the case goes through 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u149	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The environment and transport board for work on the bill. No wonder I wanted to see my bill on a highland park become a law in spring. However, the conclusion includes a clear message from the Generals to the Government and Minister to continue working on the case and reimburse a bill on a highland park. It's an important message from the Council to the Commission. Now, the mission is to unite in making peace and establish a highland park during the next term. Why? Because our nature, our vastness, is for us, the people at the same time, and most of all, for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u150	A respectable president. If anyone went into doubt about what I said in my final talk about this case earlier, that it was merely a proposal for the present government to complete this case in a new season, there can be no doubt that it would be over after the speech of the Supreme Court. Minister of the environment just now. V.E.G. The Environment Minister left no doubt that it is the intention of this government to continue after election and to complete this high-inland park business. It's been in the cops that are so obvious. The members of the government have tried to talk themselves out of this today, but there is no doubt about it anymore. [[The president calls.]] The Highland National Park will be completed in the next term if the Central Party does not get a powerful commission in elections to defend it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u151	Mr. President. A highland park is a good idea. This bill, however, was always doomed because not all the factors that had to be seen at the time were looked forward to. This was not worked on the grounds that it was primarily environmental, otherwise it would be. the fact that there were several groups in the country using this large, beautiful area each day was inexplicable. I hope you can learn from this and be able to do this thing properly, on all other terms, better grounds, and get it done. But it is clear from this conclusion today that it is not possible for this government. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u152	Mr. President. This is the sad fate of ambitious plans, and we in the United States would have wanted this case to be accepted. But here we are primarily votes for court treatment, so we're going to have yellow. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of the environment was asked about the outcome he said, by permission of the president: [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] We're not done... Because he allowed himself to use hieroglyphics, perhaps it is all right to continue. It is not as if VG ministers and associates traveled on a rainy horse but as if they were trying to train a hippopotamus, who are familiar to say can't be tamed. This matter will simply not be finished in the next term unless left greens choose better companions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u153	Mr. President. It is quite remarkable that an idea as good as a highland national park can go so thoroughly into the propeller this has become. Because of a conflict between the ruling parties, this bill was natural and dead before it reached the council. In turn, governments should have been content to kill the matter on a committee like ordinary people, but instead they are dragged into a chamber to be killed in the hearing of our 63. In order to crown everything, environmental ministers will come to throw their drifts over the body. President. It's a charade I don't participate in. If the government wants to vote, they do it themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u154	Mr. President. The Middleland National Park has been one of the greatest struggles between the environment and natureists within the council and around the years and decades. Pointing the case to the government is not a clear message from the Generals to do better. Rather, it is a clear message to the people that this government is not able to handle the task because of conflict and conflict. It's clear to everyone. It is clear to everyone that there is something else to talk about. That's what this is. This is a case set up in the government covenant of this government and one of the main causes of government conflict. After all the work it is that this is the fate of a Middleland park. I grieve for that, and that's sad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u155	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, in the United States we feel that there is a prerequisite for the lack of time due to Covid-19 when it is equally important. The bill was submitted more than six months ago and had previously been a long consultation and publicity process throughout the country as one of the largest cases in the government. The minister and the government had sufficient time to finish the case, and behind them there are quite some meetings in society on the same subject, as well as on a committee of hundreds of visitors. How sad that the case should be put to sleep with a large dose for an indefinite period of time! Unchanged classes after the end of the election will not complete the task. The present majority of the talk has been made about solidarity, but it is evident that political desire is lacking in order to finish the matter. This is a surrender.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u156	Mr. President. It is certainly disappointing that the three governmental parties have not been better able to work at this trial during the election season, not better off with us on the task of actually getting along with the factors that are going on in this big matter. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is amazed that the funeral is not a quiet funeral. I might prefer to think of this matter as being in a respirator. It is an attempt to continue the case after this terms. I'm not opposed, because if it means that this case means that the work of a team of people who are going to be successful in this case, but we are going to sit with the vote because this conclusion is under government authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u157	A respectable president. This is an amazing funeral of this great battle speech of the left movement to the green bid. Of course, it was really too bad, especially in view of the fact that this case was in a government covenant. This case is one of the issues taken from the supporters of this government for justification of this government cohesion, that it would mean a highland park. So much for the voyage then. I think it just shows that there's nothing to negotiate with the Independence Party. He's just not making any deals, that's for sure. It's shown in this case, it's the crime scene, it's seen in one case after another, in the constitution, that the people working with the Independence Party have to accept the betrayal. [[The Constitution.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u158	A respectable president. We're here to discuss off-limits with a bill on a highland park. With this paradox, the General Assembly is listening to the comments and arguments that came from the public on this subject. The Synod continues to say, that the matter is being worked on in broad terms, and that several key points are addressed in the 158 comments on the subject. They are listed in this contraband. This is how to work, how to make peace, and how to listen to the comments made by the people. That's what we're asking here, that the Council continues to state the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u159	A respectable president. I believe that the proposal presented here to refer to a national nation park to the government can lead to a broad and enlightened discussion of cooperation, companionship, use, and protection in the highlands that can contribute to social reconciliation on those projects. Like what? paritaprevir The above statement by Vilhjálmur Árnason leads the Generals to conclude from that work in a future discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u160	President. I would have chosen that we were here to accept a highland park, and I was looking for it as the spokesman for the case. As the council drew to a close, it became evident that we would not achieve it, there were two advantages and only two. Either we would let the case die on a committee, as mentioned above, or we would try to work on it and make something good of the situation that has come up. A little bit or two. Government officials speak as if here should merely come up with the exact same language as a new bill, and everything is ruined because the same matter is coming back, and things talk like this is a public funeral. I don't know who we'd go through six hours of the Central Party discussion on a highland park unless for any reason. It is that the case is being referred to by the government and to the secretary of the Environment and Resources to provide a new bill on the subject. I would have chosen that those who want a new case on a highland park could vote for it, but I understand if they don't get along. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm on it. I want the General to give the clear message that we want a new case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u161	Mr. President. It's only a halftime in this case. Here is a motion to reexamine the case if these groups continue in the next government. It's done. Even the head of the advance party declared in news class tonight that he wanted to continue to see the same government. We know what we have to expect, even the United States has stepped into the wing of the left green in this case. The media is the only defense against this evil legalization. The rights of the left green is not to be stopped, nor do our use of green energy in the highlands or in the public court and the uses of the highlands so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u162	President. I, and at least some more Pirantars, voted against dismissing this proposal. It is simply because we feel that even though the matter was defective, it could have been fixed completely. We could have just fixed it up on a committee and we could have been voting on this big and important case here at the Senate hall today if the government hadn't been so much against their own business. A vast agreement, as mentioned, seems to be just a denial of the few, then mostly of the Independence Party, I expect. It's just not democratic, unfortunately, it's not democratic work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u163	Mr. President. The middle class has moved over 20 changes in budgets and budgets during this term. They've all been cut down. The Independence Party issued all our suggestions for reducing the state's presentation, while advertisements had to be reduced. It's all over and around. The government's call for consultation in difficult times did not go unnoticed by the Central Party, and we answered with many suggestions. We supported the government's proposal for the fight against the virus epidemic. She answered by agreeing with all the suggestions offered by the Middle Party. The government's call for consultation is showy, and that's how it's been for the entire ultimatum period. The middle class immediately pointed to the need to meet nursing problems. They did not listen. The government does not trust to solve the problem permanently. It's this bill's message. The middle party doesn't vote, but we support the restoration proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u164	V.E.G. President. The motion we're voting on is a price to be paid and we are eager for all students to receive school. It's been a lengthy process, and the checking process is a problem. In this way, the National Institute of Education has not been given enough information to be sufficiently informed about who are applying for school and where they might be assigned to school. There's no financing problem here. We make contributions this year to this project, and then, when better information is received in the fall, reevaluate the funds and then into the next year. Although money is frequent motions for good works, it is not the problem in this case. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u165	A respectable president. This is about dealing with emergency problems more than 30 individuals who did not get the answer to a high school environment to eliminate that uncertainty immediately. I've read the Ministry memo. That's a fine systematic answer to how this can be done better next year. We are solving problems now, and during the last few years of the council, I would be impressed with the idea that we were sending out a clear message to the people, individuals, and their families that we are going to handle this now and give clear answers and relief to the pressures we have seen in these last days. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-12-113.u166	Mr. President. I wondered if people couldn't quite figure out what adjustment proposal we're voting on because there are red votes here on the wall. We're talking about 30 people, 30 babies born 16 years ago, that the system hasn't planned. Now that they can go to high school, there is no money to receive. [[Top of it: not right.]] There's no money to let these children work. Here come members of Congress and say they are eager to respond to these children's positions but have their finger on the red button. [[Up front.]] My friends. If you have a lot on your mind to fix this, you have a button on the table to do it. [[Up front.]] You don't fix it by saying something, you fix it by doing something.
