ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u1	V.E.G. President. A 10-year-old can go swimming alone. At the age of 12, it has the right to express its opinion, e.g. Stay in a religion. At 13 years of age, the child may perform a small task. At the age of 15, the child is allowed to take the lead in caring for other children. Fifteen years old is going to be indictable. A 15 - year - old can have sex. At the age of 16, a child can join a political party. Sixteen years of age does not have general rules for the child. Eighteen years of age, the child becomes a legal and economic individual. Eighteen years of age, a person has the right to vote, and he can marry and buy tobacco. A 20 - year - old can buy alcohol and own and use a firearm. As adults, we try to make sense to our community's youth every time. The world is changing rapidly into a fast - cost consumer society. We ourselves are role models. Still, we place our youth, individuals, these limitations. But is it time to define in law when a child can have a smartphone? In Iceland's constitution, it says that children are guaranteed by law the protection and care required of them. When does a person develop to do all kinds of things? We set a standard for the use of energy from children and young people because we know that such consumption works. But why would it be okay to agree that a 12 - year - old will have access to all the Internet buffets that social media have to offer, let alone a 10-year-old or nine - year - old? We have an example, and we have rules. According to the law, children who have reached age fourteen may see all movies in theaters if they watch the film with a parent or a guardian. Should we here at the General Assembly put together a law that allows a person to have a smartphone with an Internet network and a communication program at age 15. Let us protect our children and young ones and help parents to fulfill their responsibility to raise a child.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u2	Mr. President. The government's government covenant says that effective law enforcement is one of the reasons for the security of its citizens. In the United States, we have repeatedly shown during the election period that there is a greater need for law enforcement to increase, while police officials have declined greatly despite increased and more complex tasks. A Kompás program at Science discusses the terrible slaughter that took place in Red Deerthra, said to be a clean execution in the media. The widow of the deceased is addressed, as well as the chief police officers and appointed tax investigator. Organized crime is being discussed and our possible defenses. Sveinsson, a central police officer at the police department in the capital area, said that the police were naturally seeking to watch a person who was suspected of carrying a handgun with a silencer, but the police lacked both the resources and the time to carry out such tasks. So a man travels about the country carrying a pistol armed with a silencer with a knowledge of a police officer who cannot act because of lack of money. Theodóra Emilsdóttir, appointed tax investigator, says in the same factor of organized crimes are taking place in front of our eyes, but the office has called in vain for provisions to react more quickly to the suspicion of being misused by the tax system. Karl Steinar Valsson, chief police officer at the Marshal's office, said that organized crime is probably one of the greatest threats to society today. Mr. President. The government has fallen asleep on guard when it comes to securing the safety of its citizens and combating organized crime. Is it at best reckless but at worst the failure of the government? This is about human life, Mr. President, the safety of the citizens and a healthy community. I challenge the government to open my eyes and react before it is too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u3	V.E.G. President. The building of Kjalvet is what I wanted to discuss today. We live in a changed world, and Iceland has the attention of the world as never before. It even appeared. in an interest of tourists in the country. Pregnancy needs to be taken into account, and we need to think big. I, along with four members of the council, have made a motion to build up the Kygle with the goal of keeping it open to a large portion of the year. The main reason is based on important safety, based and environmental considerations. The proposal suggests that the secretary of transportation initiates the preparation and work at the end of 2022. The soil's artery is to be built into the soil and to promote it on the road in all respects. Through the highlands, roads have been an important means of transportation. Although little has been done, improvements and construction of the road have been under discussion for decades. I can see that the project is based on user fees and is therefore not affecting the priorities of transport programmes. A private member can accept funding, construction, and operation of the project as a government agent. With the new Kjal Road, the distance between Gold Falls and Water of Mice would be about 200 miles [37 km] and about 300 miles [300 km]. There would be a new international tourism that linked the two major tourist areas of the country. With a new Kjal Road, there would be only 35 miles [ 135 km] from Gold Falls to the inhabited area of Tegafur and 218 miles [218 km] to Akureyri. The rise in traffic calls for the protection of the highland city. New Kjall Road takes into account landscapes, strengthens nature protection in the highlands, facilitates road control, and greatly reduces dust pollution and damage to vehicles. When such transport is also environmental, I wonder, the highest. President: What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u4	Mr. President. There is quite a delay in vaccinations in Iceland these days, most because the U.S. health authorities decided to use vaccines that the Northern nations do not wish to use for the reasons that Danir says that one in 40,000 who receives this medicine is at risk of blood clots. We have recently borrowed from Norway 16,000 doses of this same medicine. The question is, Mr President: Norwegians are not going to use this drug, how will they be paid back? We don't know. They can hardly be reimbursed for medicines they already declared they are not going to use. It is also so, Mr. President, that there are not quite clear rules or clear reports of underlying diseases that make people receive vaccines other than AstraZeneca. People have been waiting with fear and uncertainty, understandable, for this. They are greeted by health authorities or by the medical director at the health care of the capital area, but they said in the news last night that people are in the competition for the weak to avoid receiving the AstraZeneca vaccine. I must ask, Mr. President, what kind of message is it from the health authorities to people who are uncertain and fearful? I must insist, Mr. President, that the manager draw these words back now or find another suitable job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u5	These are quite heavy words about an absent person who cannot answer for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u6	Mr. President. I'm also going to discuss vaccinations and actions with Covid, but in a somewhat different way. We receive a positive report every day of the fight against Covid here on the country. We hear of mass vaccinations every week that constantly take more vulnerable groups into safe havens and that the level to which we have thought to be effective is reduced. Our large business countries are also well along, and they are already seeing signs of the arrival of vaccinated tourists that will have a very positive impact on the economy. Yet, among these good news, we also receive tragic reports about conditions in many other parts of the world. Poor health systems in many poor countries are on the rise. Lack of simple equipment and even oxygen to a ventilator results in untold suffering and death, such as in parts of Asia. For more than a year, the main focus of Western policy has been to ensure that vaccines and viral tests are guaranteed primarily for themselves. Now we face a marvelous tragedy in countries that may have to cope with the epidemic far within the next year while we are looking for a country. It is important that we as a wealthy society remember these people. Surely we must look for ways to strengthen, even more powerful, the fight against Covid earth wide. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Health Minister to Iceland has already invested 500 million in a common international fund for this, and that's well. Similarly, the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Health has been found to consider the best way to support the Indian government in the fight against the Korean epidemic. Mr. President. It won't be over until it's over worldwide. We are to rejoice in our success here in the land, but we remember that the world is large, and we need to look to it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u7	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir spoke here about organized crime, and she has every reason to respond to a general warning on that subject. It is true that organized crime is a growing problem and one of the major threats facing us in these times. On the other hand, I think it's right to keep it together that the government doesn't, like, have it. A senator stood up and made this development happen without any response. It's a long way from here. We have discussed these matters at the same time. General and Education Committee. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " It has been observed that in recent years, just because of the dangers of organized crime, there has been a special effort to expand the cooperation of police and other authorities which are involved in research on these issues and spending more money in this area, large financial resources, with special financial resources, but also through the use of funds that may not have been used elsewhere in this purpose. So there has been a significant increase in this regard. Third, there have been changes in legislation, particularly in order to facilitate police authorities in the field of research and follow-up. There have been legal adjustments that have included changes in money thefts, the processing of personal information by law enforcement, the execution of criminals. We're here at the council, we've got a change in police law, including the law. the need to answer this question. We're changing the Schengen rules to make it easier for us to use an information system for this purpose and so on, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u8	A respectable president. There has been a great deal of effort during this ideal period of environmental action. We have designed to ban plastics and other things have been done, in fact, controversial, but still a fact. I'd like to make it here to the interviewing material of the facility with some plastic. Most of them are exported to plastic servers in the Netherlands. The extraction fund pays for collection and divorce. In 2018, the EFFA study for Exploitation Fund revealed that 70% of this plastic was mud, dirt, and water. Thirty percent was plastic. Today, the Calculator Fund calculates this to about 58%. That's what makes all extraction numbers wrong. According to my information, a respectable president, all this plastic has been moved to Malaysia by this server in the Netherlands. What happens when it is impossible to say, but it is unlikely that it will go there in modern plastic recycling, as we would like and would like it to do. At the same time, a factory works in Whositutor, one of the most environmentally friendly factories in this world, and it has no work to do. A respectable president. I'm asking you, what kind of environmentalism is this? In recent months and years, these problems have been repeatedly identified, but there has been no change. Is this a fake? When it comes to environmental issues and these important factors, do we have a dub in us? This reminds us of the disposal of ships in India, a medium of the winter, and a lot of attention. I think we need to board sleeves, a respectable president. I was rather sad to hear in my conversations with the Environment Ministry officials that they know about this and that even more surprising, they are not responding to appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u9	The president asks why. A senator apologizes for the malfunctioning of the operating system and a rosary disappeared from the President's screen, so the president does not know who was next on the rosary. But if it's been 5th. That's the north side. He's right to get the word, and I'm going to track down the mollusk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u10	Mr. President. No doubt it has begun to rule the sun in its citizens, who are experiencing the fact that we are getting out of this crisis and into a normal life. And if there's something that this epidemic is to teach us, apart from the fact that the community's solidity is important, it is a wrong estimate of the value of work that we have put on. In medical institutions, in care and service, in schools, in cleaning, and elsewhere, tens of thousands have done a very difficult and unselfish job for the overall population. The pressures have been intense, difficult work conditions, and a considerable chance that in some cases this will affect long - term staff. The characteristics of this group are that these include what we call "the traditional women's work, " jobs that have often been considered to be lower than many comparable jobs performed by men. This requires that we learn lessons after a crisis and change. Of course, this is primarily a matter of righteousness, but it is also necessary to ensure that these work can be performed in the future. Mr. President. That's right in the end. In very regular ways, we read news from the financial system or other places where people get their requests for all possible and impossible things, and some even without you realizing that special accomplishments are behind them. At the end of the first wave, however, the government gave the health - care centres a precipitating pressure. Yet, there was little tragedy, and there was nothing for other prominent people. Now I think it's time for us to show these people gratitude, give them remuneration in line with enormous responsibility, and make them the first step in accepting the community's poor values for work, and then change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u11	Mr. President. It's a new day of struggle for workers. I heard yesterday from the President of ASÍ, where she suggested that before the next election, ASI and the leadership of the paymen would put themselves in line to have a conversation with candidates and political parties, calling out for the particular policy of the employee involved. This is certainly far - reaching, since, of course, payers are just common people in the country. It is important for the public in the country to learn how to build up the health system, the tax system, the building of housing and employment, to name something. All of this is a matter that concerns the lives of every employee in the country, and I think it's very good to know that before the next election, they'll be called upon by the decisive answers from the candidates, how they think, if they get into power, how they act, and what emphasis they're going to put on. We know that their priorities differ. I think we left greens in this situation, which has been extremely difficult for Covid, especially economically, for us as a nation, have shown that we have put the interests of those who may be least fortunate and paid in the country's interests in the first place of those circumstances. Therefore, who comes to the board after the next election is important. Never do we know when the preparations will be difficult, and it is important to set priorities for employees and less fortunate ones. I believe that the left green can become proud of this government that has been seated in the last four years, or almost, and can show that we will promote the interests of the people of the country after the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u12	Mr. President. The French government radio has reported that Tindholm, the Samherian granddaughter, has been charged with one of the Errors of Namibia. In Norway the media reports that the Norwegian bank DNB has become a political climate in that country. We know that the media on alleged payoffs and other alleged violations of the Samher people in that country and we know that Icelandic ministers used their unusual pressure when it comes to matters related to the interests of the Samherja. This report on foreign media coverage brings us in addition to our own coverage and researchism, and for that, most of us are grateful. There is increasing weight in discussions and criticism of the world's unique financial resources in Icelandic society. We have been speaking from the beginning for the importance of public interest, that there should be no government to defend systems that favor specific interests, that it is one of the biggest efforts in politics to protect public interests, including the United States. for the pursuit of specific interests. I had in mind late last year that the Council called for a report from a seafaring minister on investments of the largest non-fishing corporations in the country's Icelandic industry, on the involvement of the production in Icelandic society. It starts to collapse for five months after the General Assembly approved the report request, and it will not hurt her at all. Where's the report? When will it be published? Will it be published? It is a huge interest that this information is clear. And when we add to the largest public interest companies are in a special category due to the non-term patent use of the nation's fish resources, there is also a major public interest concern, that the government gives up its plans to provide a substantiate resource directive and replace it with the full weight in protecting public interest, because it is one of the biggest roles in politics, including Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u13	Mr. President. It is well - known, of course, that politicians often look far ahead, perhaps because things change so rapidly in politics. It is often best for them, and it is difficult to predict, especially the future, as someone fell out of the way. Often, environment, habits, and things are rapidly changing without anyone noticing them. Some things come and go just as hard, while others are here to stay and change the environment permanently. Some changes have unexpected effects that may not be expected. One is how rapidly the use of so - called electric tanks has increased in recent months. Although I have not yet taken a test test on one of these, it is clear that in a very short time, I have seen an increase in use. People pass traffic jams on these devices, and in all weathers, winters, summers, spring, and fall. The only thing that stops is the lack of electricity and the next one's short. Of course, such instruments need to be kept in mind for safety. However, consider how long - term exposure can be affected by greater and more general use. Have you considered that? Have to form people who take in the metropolitan line that the only true future solution is the possibility that people are simply faster, and they can take all their trips to the largest urban area on such vehicles, free of pollution. It is the responsibility of elected agents to make as practical plans as possible and treat the public tax. The events of the future may change rapidly. People could simply make decisions about new, powerful, and environmental transport without consulting any political object.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u14	V.E.G. President. Is there a difference between national infrastructure services compared to the Great Reygúsavík? Is the Great Realty area on a higher level than the country in this regard? This question has come to my mind, and in this case I'm talking about payment or delivery on hot water. Thus, for a few years, construction of a Shinfellsnesi factory has been completed, in fact, in Stykisholmi. Extensive research has been carried out on decks and seaweeds, on stock size and on what you can take, and there are people ready to build such a factory in that area, and all ready for that. There's plenty of electricity, but there's no hot water. This question came to my mind because some sort of shy contest has been conducted for now for a year or two in which those who are to render this service, that is, given this time, do not believe in the project. That's why I ask: Is there a difference between the country and the capital area? I'm told if this were in the capital area, it wouldn't be a problem. What are the duties of such parties on such projects? It's been shown that this is a very relevant company. This involves full - time work on drug and ointments and in all kinds of workouts. This leads to a top-priority of 20 to 25 high-paying jobs and so forth. This is a big deal for an area such as the West of Snæfellsnes, in Stykkisolmi, and therefore I ask: What is the obligation of a company like the hosts in such structure?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u15	A respectable president. It was true seven months ago, on October 8, 2020, that this woman, especially now when we can't see anything other than that all the fruits are there to make up here inflation that we don't want to see. I had queries to the top. Secretary of finance, repeatedly writing articles, we discussed the situation we went through in 2008. There's been little answers. The only answers we have received from high officials are that we do not need to worry, the inflation will not start. But that's not true, a respectable president. She's about to go. It now measures 4.6%. The last time I was talking about inflation, it was 4.3%. It is popular here to take the mortgage out of the inflation when the numbers should look better on paper. But what does this mean for the homes of the country? What will it mean for the families of the country if we are going to let this happen to them one more time? How large a rise will be in the families' housing loans? We've been going through such a real estate bar that there's a search for a time where one of them has been sold from property. Therefore, it may be time for the High Council, with the leadership of the people here, with all due respect, Mr. President, to gather his face and try to block the well before we throw our families into the pit of inflation. We won't make it later. That's for damn sure. But we could now make sure in advance, something else is a petition for us. If insensiblely, inflation doesn't creep, we're lucky. But we must want to secure the families of the land and put their belts and bracelets on them during the difficult times we are going through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u16	Mr. President. The situation of nursing homes in the country has been under discussion recently, and we have reached some sort of final stop in an aimless group. By the end of March, we gave a group of members of the United States to a council proposal for a new well - being policy for the elderly who are turned away from out - of - date views. There must be opportunity for the government. The proposal puts emphasis on housing measures that would make it easier for older people to move into suitable facilities, which may sometimes result in financial innuendo, and active, known and practical ways. Independence in your own home will be your primary objective, with support and variety of options. There the health and welfare technology will be activated by a variety of mechanisms that are still damaged, and development projects will be set up that particularly attract young people to interesting projects. At the same time, professional staff will be trained according to government plans for personal service in their own home. The financial development of the party will be reexamined, including the funding of the institutions and the payment of individuals. The light will become financial independence and self - control. Part of the project will be development in a special model of models that enable rural society to provide appropriate progressive and variable services according to actual need, not on the basis of the government in a square system. By highlighting a change of viewpoint and policy, the law on the affairs of the elderly is passed and will be canceled. Mr. President. As for all these things that we in the United States do, our balanced yet radical proposal has to be a covenant, and really a national agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u17	President. We've got a lot of big projects ahead of us. It is unemployment that is enormously important, there are a number of corruption issues that must be resolved, and we need to get the sake of a speciality queen out of Congress. Other specific major issues also need to be considered, and that, as the first speaker pointed out, nurses' affairs, and social gatherings in the service of the elderly, from home - to - house to medical care. It is something that has been known for many years, this entire ideal period, and as part of the current government administration covenant, the lack of nurses adds stress to hospitals and reduces the quality of life of the elderly. The policy of the government is to be reflected in a financial program that it does not. As noted at this morning's staff meeting, funding for nursing homes is lacking. True, some things have been built, but funds have not been expected to run the nursing home. This has not been enough to meet the demand for population growth. The number of people 80 years of age and older is predicted to double almost in the next 20 years. We do not see that the promises given at the beginning of the season to solve the problem were sustained. We can see from the report that this morning a financial committee discussed that we do not yet know what the problem is. Large nursing homes, such as 90 or more rooms, are said to be needed. The size benefit is simply that it does not pay to run a smaller nursing home. The report says: No, there is no difference in the size of a nursing home between a larger and a smaller one. Still, the report in the second word says that a nurse's weight is taken into account if size is expressed. [[The president calls.]] Yet it is said: No, it doesn't. On a financial committee, we scratch our heads. We were hoping for a report that would tell us what the situation was, but we didn't get anything. There's still this group of paintings in the paralytics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u18	Mr. President. It's a crisis in the economy. The worldwide Korean virus has set its mark on major jobs, such as the tourism and the restaurant industry. However, the consequences are far beyond those sectors. Last year, land production rose by 6.6%, and by the end of the last month, there were over 25,000 people out of work or in a decrease in employment ratio. At the same time that the nation deals with this heavy unemployment, inflation is increasing and has not been higher for more than eight years. How will we react? What will be the effect on the family budget? The lack of public investments is another smell from the economic problem. The government's investments gathered 9.3% in 2020 and 10.8% in 2019. This takes place during a historic recession, where the need for intervention on the part of the public is both obvious and urgent. The time for investment is now, and it was last year too. Delay in implementing projects is not to be expected to have the opposite effect, increasing tension and expansion in the economy over the years to come. I wonder if the government can handle this, then there's no more love in the future. For a year before the epidemic struck, the storm clouds had broken up in the economy without properly responding to the government. On this, it's got a lot of problems. The financial counsel repeatedly pointed out. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance how he intends to react now. The state funds status was not bad at the beginning of the epidemic. That's a good thing, but the government's debt has gone up a lot. One change led to an increase of 45 billion dollars last year. The loans the government has since taken into foreign currency contribute to this government's risk. In the worst stage, this will inevitably take the bite both on public service and on the provision of the households, a tax increase of 50 billion dollars. during the next terms or by surgery. In other words, government funds take risks at the expense of the lives of the entire country. Some may think that this black - bilerasus is being brought, but the prospects are bleak, so we must act seriously. We need to create more valuables in our country's preparation and restore the financial resources of the state. For economic growth to be sustainable, increasing employment production is required by a broad variety of exports, technologies and innovations. The people need to be strengthened and supported by the creative powers of their nation and new valuable sectors, overhauling, and large numbers of interest are working directly against these goals. The building of intelligence is our greatest opportunity to advance in these areas. The main challenges are instability, high growth, lack of long - term support, and public vision, and too little foreign investment in Icelandic commercial life. The reason for the problem is the economic environment that the dollar creates. How are we, as a community, going to improve our stability, increase the number of opportunities in Icelandic innovations while we have a currency that works against these same objectives, or while the government has demonstrated that the currency's belief is no more than that. Secretary of finance has provided a bill that allows the Federal Bank to resort to a massive bank of currency without the presence of the council? The crown is a problem. Lands in the euro and countries that have linked their currency to the European gangs are much lower than in Iceland. That means even. Icelandic citizens pay more money for their loans than the rest of the country's population around us, business needs to be a source of greater costs, and government funds are repeatedly taking risks with foreign loans. Mr. President. The two options are: the continued dance of the crown in the environment of the industry, with its hair growth or proposal, to seek an agreement with the European secretary of the Union to link the crown with Euro and the joint gang control by Iceland's Secret Bank and the European Council Bank. Which one's the best. Secretary of finance to choose?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u19	A respectable president. I thank you for the initiative in this discussion. Although economic issues have been successful in the pandemic, it is always important to ask persistent questions and consider the following steps. First, I'm going to step off to unemployment, because it doesn't seem to anybody that there's been a leap in the middle of a pandemic. There has been nearly complete loss of jobs in tourism, our largest export work. And this happens in a minute. A lot of shock. Today, however, there is clear evidence of reversal, but there was a decrease in overall unemployment rate to 1,000 between January and March, and there are only a fraction of the totals. The number of advertising jobs is increasing rapidly, one of the most in technical and services sectors. Improvements occur at a time when tourism is still minimal, raising hopes for even faster reversals when the article takes over. With intensive action on the state's budget and a fall in interest, commercial power and demand have been successful. The government's investment campaign brought about 18 billion a year, and this year it will be about 30. This adds to another government investment such as historical high transport contributions and the construction of a new land hospital. Thus, the government's investments did not intervening. A senator said, rather, it increased by 5.8% between the previous year, according to the Hausti figures. If we corrected for renovating the Western island, the government's growth rate was 12%. I'll think about it. A senator here is confused with the numbers for state and rural society, but the communities have not followed the same procedure as the state of this country. When considering the potential for growth, the environment in which we live must be kept in mind. If growth rises from the current level, take steps from the lowest level to modern economics. This will be primarily due to the success of economic efforts. This must indicate that we have found a resistance if we are discussing the need for interest here. The rise in real estate prices reflects the results of this material. Yet, it should not be forgotten that evolution is far from the Reverend. That's how real-estate prices like that have been made. an increase of about 13% between the years in Norway and 12% in the European country of Germany, an increase of 12%. It is important, however, that we continue to give up on the forward side. There must not be a lack of supply to drive this trend, but it may not be. Nevertheless, rural society needs to continue to expand its borders, and we need to continue to support those who need to cross the threshold into the housing market. I don't have much time here to review everything that has to do with the debt of the state's funds, but here, of course, it is important that we continue to stress the stimulation of valuables. Similarly, we need to make sure that in the coming years, the tax growth will be slower than the growth of land production. We'll close the budget hole. Surely, all of us realize that maintaining economic stability is crucial. The funding of the state funds has rarely been better than just today, and with the many programs that we have presented, I have not much concern about the future in this regard. Of course, to provide support for sustainable economic growth, it is important that we prepare well for the future articles in Iceland. We've put a lot of money into research and development. Industrial organizations have estimated that research and development have increased by half as much as the proportion of land production between 2018 and 2020. This is tremendous growth. It is estimated that support for research and development in the form of reimbursement is more than doubled this year due to both increased activity in research and increased support. We have often discussed the benefits and recordings of another currency. We know reports on this subject, but I'd like to say we've seen the growing credibility of money policy in recent years. That has even been true. Creates space for growth. And, of course, ask: How would we have been able to go through this crisis that we are going through right now with a currency that did not reflect the shock we experienced, a relative shock in one service sector, in the tourism service? [[The president calls.]] It wouldn't have looked any different than we know from anywhere else, it would have been a huge unemployment. It is not an option to see the currency yield only, his role in these situations. [[The president calls.]] Having the crown is a blessing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u20	Mr. President. Happily, the Icelandic State was in a position to cope with the massive impact of the pandemic and to do so by means of measures that, while most of them have in common, should be primarily to relieve suffering for a certain time, to be a drug for the economy. But now, at the end of the epidemic, we need to start looking at economic structure for the future after this dramatic decline, as it is time for debts. Then do not forget to look at the situation before the epidemic, for at that time there were many companies, especially smaller companies in Iceland, having serious problems with increasing costs and, especially, increasing regulations, oppressive regulations. Few things have likely been as important to Iceland's economic restoration as to the situation we enjoy in spite of everything today, and the fact that we are outside the European Union and have an independent currency. In fact, it can be said that it saved us financially. But do we make good use of independence? Because here we are streaming to assembly regulations, burdensome regulations that are tailored to completely different circumstances than our situation in Iceland. We don't need the highest opinion. A minister to do much better in adapting a rule of order to our circumstances and taking advantage of the freedom we have? I'm not talking about ever giving up home - to - house problems, taxing regulations, and paybacks, new greens, and whatever all of this is called, which the government develops.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u21	Mr. President. I'd like to come in on two things as high as I can. Secretary of finance spent quite a bit of time here. It is an increase in housing prices and inflation, both disturbing things, and a special concern for homes. In the United States, prices have not been reported higher since the beginning of 2013, and one major reason for this is an increase in housing prices. One is the weakness of the crown. Housekeeping has increased by 10% in one year. Each government's objective should be to ensure access to safe housing, a basic need, and a tight grip on what we call home. But this must not be done merely by promoting an increase in debt. As the economy begins to take over, there will be an increase in growth, an increase in the number of apartments, and the number of homebooks that will be returned to people. We are now experiencing a crisis that leads to real estate outbreaks. You will especially think of young people who have not made it into the market and who do not have a strong financial backland and now suddenly have to get to a market that is more expensive both, may grow more, and in an unusually difficult situation, if the government's financial program is established. Governments have simply not offered enough clear resources for young people who are taking their first steps to a very difficult market and who are not able to take much of their special savings. The only way governments have fueled prices. In the long run, however, the task is to ensure a steady, predictable supply of apartments that reduces these vast fluctuations of real estate markets. The next government needs to offer a much clearer view and provide a more credible plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u22	Mr. President. This is an important discussion. Economics are important. I believe winning unemployment is the big job ahead of us. There were positive figures that came up in the speech of the highest. The secretary of finance here before, but better if necessary, and we especially need to consider that long-term noncooperative activities are not being established here. I can agree that an increase in in in inflation is a concern. Happily, when the year passes, forecasts that it will grow limp. But that doesn't mean that we don't have to keep our eyes on it, and I thought it was a positive thing to say in the case. The prime minister here in this public talk today that the position of the housing market is specifically being considered and that housing matters will be scheduled for the next meeting of the National Economic Council. That's fine. I can't say the word. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, that the dollar is the guilty, or in some way perhaps the beginning or end of the problem here. I don't agree with that. But as for the future, I believe there are some things that need to be intertwined in the vision of the future by building up economic and employment. We have to grow out of this economic crisis, but the structure and industry that are involved must be climate-friendly and must ensure social justice because that is the only way that works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u23	President. The number of members of Congress definitely needs to be increased. But here we have a lack of vision. If we go to simplicity, economics, people outside and here at council as well, the economy is about to turn over the roof over our head, food to the stomach, and proper rest. That's not much more complicated than it is after all. The situation is that this is an economy for an epidemic, where it was hoped that the epidemic would be short and that it was organized. There was no plan B. It was just supposed to be the same. But the reaction has made us unemployment for 20,000 people. It is the reaction that has been equal, not much more than that. Actions have been randomized without any analysis of their impact, the race exists, various companies are provided that are now paying off interest and proposals. So inaccurate have the actions been performed. Some have had a very positive effect while other measures have not been changed, and since the others, in which some have received money that did not need it. The innovation was the key out of the code a year ago, as Pirantar and I pointed to it, and it's really still. But we have a delay of a year or even more because of the government's vandalism on the foundation of innovation. Pirates want to plant seeds of innovation all over the country, make rural society self-sustaining for services, and be able to support all kinds of occupations, not just jobs that need concrete, square feet and kickbacks. We need to build up from the roots, new roots, in a variety of gardens. We want a flourishing garden and variety, even heated, because we want to think big.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson for this special discussion and granting the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers. Hv. A advocate here raises important questions, which certainly turn to the present and future and present as challenges in a financial program. It may be said that this also highlights the economic delicate time that we now live after more than a year's struggle with Covid. Job life and the public have suffered many challenges, and this has normally reduced the financial cycle. The focus of the last year has been on protecting the economy, the main products of which are home and business, and the economy as practical as possible while protecting the lives and health of the people of the land. This has resulted in a tremendous exchange of government funds to finance home and business support, to those who have lost their jobs and their companies, so that they can do this and be ready for resistance. We will see that the resistance can begin at a time when the government's detoxification program is concomitantly used. Such tilting, a dignified president, is essential for the state's balance of life while we take up the money policy of the National Bank that has responded very strongly, including, in fact, to the U.S.A. with reduction of driving growth. This has fueled demand, so that the contractions last year became less than they had been. We can say that we are in a submerged economy, which generates prices, so the game is changing very fast. That's why I call this a delicate time. This will be a balance art, and there are other ways to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this discussion on state money and why. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson for the discussion. What has a secretary of finance said that often in this chair this year and last year that it would not have to worry about inflation? There would be no risk of inflation. Inflation has reached 4.6%. When I was talking to him, she was about twice as low. Then he said, "Don't worry, not a few." At the same time, now during the last year, social security increased by 3.6%. Remuneration has increased by 10%. There, the government found wide banks; the people who are supposed to survive the social security at the state insurance agency. It's the wide banks. They're the ones who're going to tighten the water. Does anyone ever think that as soon as the years go by and they start paying back what has been put in the Covid case, these wide sheets won't be continued? They'll be cut down again. Then they are young people who are trying to buy an apartment. As someone pointed out the other day: It doesn't matter what I put of my salary in special savings or savings, I can never collect for the down payment because it's going to go up so fast. And the share loans that were supposed to set things up for young people - there's a fixed dollar number. What can you buy here in the capital for a share loan? Yes, reinvent damaged or industrial houses in a miserable place under awful conditions. It was possible, it's not possible anymore. The whole thing with this government is complete. Unfortunately, it appears to be in some Covid fog and does not see inflation or other problem in the public and the worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u26	A respectable president. One of the most important tasks in politics at any given time must be the standard of living for the common people, and the subject, of course, is to improve them. Of course, we are here today in competition with other nations, and this competition is a good thing, for if we succeed in doing so, and especially for young people. That is why we want a progressive company to come to this country with its activities, to promote diversity, and, at the same time, a more varied, more productive commercial life, thus increasing the opportunities for young people to work. The significance of this, of course, is now the case when unemployment is on the highest level, which, unfortunately, is still beyond recovery. To be competitive, the environment in Iceland needs to be good. That's where we need stability. We need forethought, and we need easy access to funding and funding for the benefits. We especially need to make sure that young people live in Iceland. The key to continuing to do so is that the standard of living in Iceland is competitive to the standard of living in other countries. In order for a standard of living to be competitive, it must be consistent in ensuring that Icelandic intelligence and innovation will have the opportunity to grow. The welfare system must continue to be built, access to a high - quality education, and, above all, to make sure that it is easy to get a roof over your head and start family life. But economic instability counteracts all these factors, gang swings, and high growths in Iceland's competitiveness. This is simply a fact. These fluctuations are especially a problem for young people in the first apartment, where young people in Iceland are simply heavier than in other lands because of their unique circumstances. How can we improve the real life of people and businesses in our country when our currency, with its side effects, promotes mood swings and maintain high interest? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The short answer is that we cannot.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u27	Mr. President. In the beginning, it should be noted that there is no need to be evidence of a healthy economy that growth is very low, even negative. This is not a sign of a terraistic life, but it can be a disease condition. I think it's worth keeping in mind when talking about the Icelandic crown and whether some senator's dream here should come true, looking for the keeper of the Icelandic Clan is the Federal Republic of Iceland. It is remarkable to see that trust in Iceland's Secret Bank has doubled in two years and is now 62%, according to Gallup's assessment. In 2011 this trust was 20%, Mr. President. This suggests that the Icelandic nation trusts the Icelandic crown. Now in the leading of an election, it is clear that we have and have some questions to answer to voters. We need to answer in what way we will build a flourishing career and make sure that there will be thousands of work here in the years to come. This hall has been called on at various times to increase the number of government employees. We in the Independence category stress that the business economy will be equipped to thrive, and the work there will be because the value there will be available to this nation's well - being. We say, "We're going to expand our effectiveness in government business. " We're going to make sure that where we're going, including... In the health system, if the co-work of private, independent healthcare professionals and public companies are committed to the general public's well-being.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u28	Mr. President. We certainly need powerful interest in promoting a responsible government policy in order to provide a reimbursement of the huge debt that has had to develop to cope with the viral flag. In the sense of being far beyond the limit of the Federal Bank, inflation appears to be crippling, and it refuses to fail. Of course, searching for an explanation is not long. Here, excessive pay increases have been exceeded, and it is very close to looking for a 20% increase in pay costs in rural areas between 2019◯2020. And then another cow comes right now with a short work week. It's not what you know about it, naturally. Mr. President. Many families have established credit bonds with variable growths, unemployment is high, and homes are vulnerable to growth increases. We can ask: What strategy will the Minister take and the government take in order to protect the household? Tells you the highest. A minister would be able to narrow down loans for a change in interest of interest, e.g. Not an investment loss or excessive charge of borrowers through such interest rates? At the same time, sensibilities also threaten to become seriously pampered because of inflation and particularly because of the plans of Ministers to change the law of pensions and the obligation of pension rights in order to raise only once a year instead of monthly. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Will a minister be willing to state that he retracts that suggestion, or perhaps he has already made it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u29	Mr. President. According to the government's financial programme for the next five years, the main focus is to stop the percentage growth of debt collections, while less ambitions are laid on lucrative investments, public service, more powerful social security, support to people who have lost their jobs or who are supporting their children's families. If forecasts continue, there will be about 10,000 non-employed people in this country in five years. Instead of promoting further measures that may be of any importance to attract people, businesses, and the economy in general through the economic problem, the government puts too much emphasis on a certain debt ratio in 2025 with the related cut-offs on government spending. Instead of using the terms of financial recovery, it is exaggerated by the government's ideas on cuts and taxes immediately after a year and a half, when unemployment is still about 67%, according to financial forecasts. In addition to the financial rule established by the government, government law on public finances is required to go into effect in 2026. In today's uncertain times, all other countries that we compare with us have set aside financial rules and have not changed, as the Icelandic government has done in a financial breakdown. Important infrastructures will suffer for such economic management for a long time at relevant costs, achieve government policy. Intensities will accumulate, whether in road and transportation systems or in the health and health system. The Union wants to create peace about how to switch income and harvests, spread their burdens, and disappear from policy in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, for bringing up the matter of how we're going to use the economy, I choose to understand the discussion this way, how to use the economy and the community to get out of this crisis. I agree with what has been presented in the discussion earlier today, that the project must be using the economic management so that we can control the unemployment and the thousands of jobseekers who today do not see to it that they have a job in the near future have the opportunity to use their energy for themselves and for the entire economy when the workforce is lifted. But I don't think we should forget that a crisis like this can also be an opportunity to think things over again. We should consider what green solutions can guide us on the road, in what green solutions, and in what green innovations, to form, our economy can find a way. One of these guides is a project such as Carbix, which many of us have studied. It has an assignment that could create at least tens of people, if not already hundreds of jobs, on green terms, and currently at least as yet, on the basis of the majority of the public parties. We made it out of the crisis with the concerted efforts of the public, the government, and the labour market bodies. [[The president calls.]] There, green solutions should be prominent, and innovation and well - being application. That's how Iceland will continue to have a good community for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u31	Mr. President. The present government has had four years to show what they're going to do to many cool things in innovation and employment development and the promotion of the economy. You hear people boast that there are open and free economy and everything else is good. I realize that last year has not been easy, but there are more shelf miles of reports on the business barriers that are present in Iceland and most are prepared. We have a legal environment that brings attention to special interests. We have a legal environment that is unattractive to foreign investments. We have an economic environment where an ever - increasing part of all the profits are being made to eat a huge pension fund. We've got a money environment in which a speck is swinging like a leaf in the wind. We have a political environment in which success and prosperity are closely correlated with socialism. We have a innovation environment in which the government brings down much of the support of innovation without any future plans for what to do. We have a political environment in which economic control is based directly on conflicting theories. We have an idea environment that still controls the state and we have a commercial environment where there has never been any overall policy. All of this could be changed. Most of this could easily be changed. That it hasn't happened yet is a decision. All our prosperity, however large, is based primarily on the repeated whales, and despite political apathy, the nation was strengthened. Unemployment is a political decision. The lack of housing is a political decision. Poverty in Iceland is a political decision. It's all political decisions. It could be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u32	V.E.G. President. Here is a very helpful and positive discussion about the challenges ahead of economic conditions at a sensitive time. The aims of economic management are always full-time employment, economic growth, and stable prices. The project ahead is inevitable to face the sacrificial exchanges between prices and employment, between economic stability and the sustainable state of financial resources. The demand for workers may be expected to increase rapidly in the months to come when travel services take place and the future project is not accepting a higher level of equilibrium than we are used to. At the same time, we must use every means to maintain our prices and protect our money. Of course, this is a serious matter. Last year, when the economy took the heavy impact with the resulting result, and the loss of the crown, the Secret Bank's response with regular currency sales was very strong and supported the gang. That's how we use the equipment correctly. The bank has now declared that there is no further need for this possibility of a tourist entrance and further funding. In this way, a respectable president, we have to use the equipment, and it's going to be a balance art. The task is to maintain economic stability, defend the level of money. This will be the next phase of balance. With regard to fixed thought, I would like to refer to a report on the future of an Icelandic money policy that quotes the words of the bank manager by permission of the president: In the same way that all of the bonds on the crown have made too great a demand that breaks out with the import and high trade halls, the result was the collapse of the HST - which was 1989 - ◯ in the same way that all the anchors have made too high a demand. This eventually led to the emptying of the country's currency funds, either resorting to gangfalls or paving... [[The president calls.]] I can't support the vision that we're going to walk and mirror something other than the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson for starting this good and discussing, and at the highest level. Secretary of finance for being with us today. None of us have missed the fact that there have been sparking sparks ever since the Covid epidemic poured on us, sparks that would have become a huge fire around the community if it had not been attempted to act. But it does not change the fact that this action, in the opinion of the Shockers, has not been properly used for the benefit of all, unfortunately. I'd like to point out, when talking about economic stability, that the woman being present has recommended that we, for example, be included. Taking in 70 billion a year from the Pension Department by taxing local pay, we deposit in the fund, not when we're pulling out of it, not when we're old and tired and would like to avoid paying taxes, but right away at local pay. We see problems everywhere. We're seeing the nurses' problems. We see a tremendous decrease, which actually destroys the potential for the poorest Icelanders to save themselves. We know that the pension fund has to invest for less than 18 billion dollars. per month. According to every pension fund I've talked to, which divides dozens if not hundreds, they would have preferred to enjoy, e.g. A lifetime of carelessness with what they have gathered into their savings. We're talking about a pension fund that goes up to 6,000 billion dollars. When it really is in the hands of the government, why not use it at least at this point in allowing our pension funds to share in building economic stability and helping us deal with the problems we face today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u34	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for a very interesting discussion. The key question has been: How are we going to grow as a community and ensure a competitive future standard of living? How will we be able to support the long - term sustainable growth in order to live up to the well - being society in which we want to live? I have emphasized that it needs to see what is the root cause of what we often face and that it has nothing to do with the currency, the source of instability. We've tried that many times. It showed that a dollar is very good to help us through trauma. The crown did not help us prevent 25,000 Icelanders from being unemployed. The crown did not help us prevent the highest inflation for eight years. Inflation is higher than in any other European country. Lack of employment increased here more than in any other European country and although more were sought. Many countries are heavily dependent on tourism, as is the case with Icelanders. It also took a substantial portion of Iceland's currency reserve to support the dollar. Even so, despite all this stability and success, in recent years the dollar has become quite swinging, and despite everything, there is a lot of fluctuations in the dollar. The crown's gang has changed, and now it is being proclaimed that the crown's gang will become stronger. So the crew of the Crown is affecting Iceland. That's it. I believe our vision of the future in the long run must take into account these facts. The cutting off of the necessary service or the raising of taxes is not the proper way. [[The president calls.]] We must simply take a position with the common people and promote an increase in economic growth with a steady gang and lower interest in the future. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what we'd like to do at Upstate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u35	A respectable president. It has sometimes been said that if the only tool you have is a hammer, it seems to me that everything is a nail. You can only see what you can put on it. I'll think of this when I hear so much emphasis laid on euro of the groups that have the top of their policy list to join the European Union and adopt a new currency, it is as if all problems are solved by the uptake of the currency. Whether it is called unemployment or high housing prices, economic recession, or the restoration of the state's funds, it's all supposed to happen with a new currency. But when it comes to research, we Icelanders have been very successful in building a standard of living in Iceland, which this must eventually be about. How are we able to build a standard of living, the buyfulness of the households, to make valuables in the land, to live up to a powerful welfare system? How is this key work done by the government? Most of them have done very well. In fact, we had our own currency and, in the power of our sovereign power, with a fine vision for the future, to reduce the debt of a state fund more than any other nation in the world - with our own currency. It's a little strange to be here in the middle of a discussion about the need for a new currency just when interest rates have never been lower in Iceland. Never. And for a long time, we've had some fine merits. There is a certain concern that inflation is now 4%, but there is no anti-collar in Iceland, and the market is not expected to have any obscenity. So we have been successful. We have tools and tools to deal with the situation. There is nothing to stop us from dealing with a pandemic, but if we have faith in the future and believe in the tools and tools we have and apply the rights, we will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u36	Mr. President. I don't support the bill we have here. This, on the other hand, includes the introduction of a reference principle, as it is called, of the sex ratios of members of the Parliament and of the unprovable obligation to watch the sex ratios of a committee elected by the General Assembly. I don't think there's any reason to have such a rule in Congress. In the past few years, members of the United States have generally sought without legal obligation to match their status to the level of gender as possible in committees of this kind. But by putting it into a Senate court, I don't feel that I ignore the fundamental idea that one group cannot tell another category of people who are chosen by special committees, which representatives are there for that group. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I think it is best to do this without the particular application of Congress laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u37	President. Similarly, in a non-exploitable mood, we have to make it absolutely clear. These instructions are given on how these matters should be handled and, in fact, merely wording on what is being done in force. If there's something specific in it, this is how we expect the matter to be arranged, and we'll write it on paper to make it clear. But let's be absolutely clear, it's not necessarily possible to follow the letter of the law that's interesting but is not alone. There are many instructions in the laws back and forth that are not practical, e.g. how to look for efficiency and environmental considerations like that. This is not always possible after all. Rather, it is instruction on how we carry out our assignments and try to fulfill the laws as we can. But as I say, this is not possible, but these are instructions that are being followed and all right to make it clear to the transparency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u38	A respectable president. Our ideas about gender's roles change over time, since they do not necessarily reflect the laws of nature, but our ideas each time. I was, for example. reading about that last night that, in the grayfloor of our ancient state law code, it is a law that only men should baptize children. Women should not baptize children, and women should even guide boy children in the way the child should be baptized, the woman who is not trusted to do so. These ideas have changed over time, and I find that to be a cause for joy. I welcome every step we get on the way to accept the equality of the sexes as the sexes have the same chance of coming out of a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u39	President. I'm going to vote with this case, but I find it very sad that we still need to set guidelines on taking all genders into the council and in the community. As I mentioned in yesterday's speech, such laws do not prevent, though there are rules and laws about how to think or how to behave, the culture that bots in the community, have done, and will continue to do. These songs come, e.g. not to stop our colleagues here at the council at the bar next to them, speaking disparagingly about women, queers, and other peripheral groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u40	A respectable president. I just wanted to make an issue over the previous talk that there is no obligation here, no binding of Congress parties in any way. There's a law to consider certain views, gender equalities, that's all radicals. It is of interest that in 2021, instruments are on whether the Allied Congress of Iceland trusted to look at gender issues. In this regard, I think it is important to look at the situation at the International Assembly in 2021 and always have been. We have never reached an equation of gender ratio at the Allied Assembly of Iceland, and it is in the representatives of two categories to introduce the view of gender equality. That makes me think about it. I'm on this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u41	Madam President. I was going to sit by on this vote, just because I didn't really understand how we were going to make it or make sure of it. But after hearing the talks, I've changed my mind, and I'm going to support it. I truly support our objective, and of course we should look to these viewpoints in decisions about seating in committees. It's important to have women in the group when making decisions. We just know that women's viewpoints are extremely important, and the decision - making process will be better when we have both opinions that are loyal to our decisions. I support my goal and just think it's odd that these views need to be viewed by law. That's why I had originally believed it was best to sit by because I didn't quite understand this idea of being in law something that can't be guaranteed and cannot be done properly. But I support viewing these views, so I'll be on the green button.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u42	A respectable president. I'm going to vote with this case. I would like to warn, however, that such preconceived rules cannot be carried out as false security. We must not view this change as some final victory or major victory if it is accomplished because, as we have learned, the real influence depends entirely on the will and decisions of each body of Congress, as it has been. I also support the case because despite this, we are changing Congress laws that are very special laws and that have a very special role in the library, such as the law code, apply. Not for the civilian, but for us senators. I would have more doubts if this were to apply to citizens because there is a lack of technical impact. This doesn't change anything except by being the index. [[The president calls.]] I believe, however, that it is appropriate to have guidelines in the council and therefore support the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u43	Mr. President. This little bill, which is actually from the World Council Presidency Committee and moved all over, is linked to the overall review of various legal laws on the realm of equality that the Council of Justice had a way and a problem and when the Council is finished here at the General Assembly. The plan is to coordinate terms in the synonyms on the role of the Generalis in choosing both within and outside the council. It makes clear what it is that there is a limit to the ability of the Generals to completely enforce equality laws, i.e. Based on the findings of the General elections in terms of gender proportions and on the state of the individual councils. I can only see that the Council is not a problem when it comes to trying its best. In the 3rd. However, there is an unscrupulous law that when the Council votes for governments, committees, and society councils, it should be in order and in accordance with equality laws, no excuse for anything else. There are no gender ratios in society that cannot be at least 40% of each sex has a large population chosen. [[The president calls.]] Then I have to say that I will vote against the change in the memory of the part which, for the most part, wipes out this spirit of the bill and that message I am not ready to send from the Allied Congress on Equal Opportunities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u44	Mr. President. I was going to find out that the adjustment that is made in a Senate document from what happened. paritaprevir Sæmundsson and I are involved in the fact that the rules in the Parliament will be absolutely clear that percentage elections in committees both within the council and outside are in various teams to confirm it so that the rule is clear. On the other hand, if one wants to agree on another, he can, of course, do it - as has been done and done in this discussion - but that the rule of the law is clear and not put in something that, as it were. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said earlier, "You may not be able to stand still. "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u45	Mr. President. We're here to vote on a law designed to make changes in child law to improve the parental status of people and individuals with neutral sex registration. The changes are aimed at ensuring the rights of parents who have changed the registry and make them equal to other parents. These are enormously important changes and are in harmony with acknowledging that parents are all kinds of people, and the law has to be filled with advice. The next consideration must be made to make laws that have no gender, both children's laws and other laws. Here we take a very important step, but then we have to keep making our community for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u46	Mr. President. I welcome this matter as it is my duty to ensure the rights of the parents who have changed the registry of generations and make them equal to other parents. I support this case, but I can't bear to mention that it has been criticized that children's laws were not further adjusted so that they harmonized with the reality of gay people and their families, i.e. that couples and couples will automatically be registered as parents of their child, regardless of gender, gender, or gender, without having to apply for it by proof. I have previously described the reality of my 20 - year - old wife's home where I had societal service - which I used to be my wife's home, also because it's what a couple do, they live together in the home at all - but the social services could take out my wife's home to see if she could step with our children. It has been 20 years, and we are blessed with so much further. But there's a chance to walk all the way, and I encourage all of us who are here to pursue this review of child law and make it sexless and guarantee equal rights for all of us and our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u47	President. I support this bill, where they are trying to meet goals that were set when sexual autonomy laws were adopted here at a council not long ago. In fact, I miss the lack of a complete review of personal rights, since the registration of neutral sex affects a number of laws relating to individual rights and they are very, how much, what a man, a hetoron wormette, as they are put up today and assume that a man and a woman plan to spend their lives together forever. The society has evolved to a degree, so I hope that an overall review will be made from an update in the content of these laws rather than just correction of words, since it does not necessarily result in the goals set out by the laws on sexual autonomy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u48	A respectable president. I've tried to be optimistic when it comes to the council's will to increase police surveillance, especially police independent surveillance. I don't think that it's achieved, unfortunately, with this matter and that the jury is still open. There must be a more intensive police surveillance, much more, and I fear that these changes will mean that people think we've won some major thing in those waters when, unfortunately, we're not. For this reason, I'm going to sit with a vote on the matter, in fact, I'm going to vote against one particular article, which I might explain better as follows, but it's in the hope that we can start to do this here at the General Assembly that we take it seriously to the community whether it's due to the Generals or on the part of the executives, we need to take care and counterweight. I don't feel that there's enough to meet it in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u49	Madam President. I'm going to sit by on this case but 6 of us. The bill that deals with the government's grant of authority to foreign law enforcement officials in this country. I realize that this is to promote cooperation with European police authorities in particular, but the law is very broad, it's very bed, and there's very little explanation in the Law Article itself and the paper with the bill on how it should be handled. It states that a minister of judicial matters has the authority to set further regulations in the Regulation. That on its own does not mean that it explains how to do this. So I think 6. The bill is too broad as this is stated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u50	Mr. President. This issue discusses several separate issues involving the police. This is not a complete review of the police law, but this is a change of several factors. It's even there. It's about cooperation with foreign police authorities, including what may be. A senator mentioned that it is permitted to give police authority to foreign police officers on this land, but still entirely on behalf of the Icelandic government and on the basis of Icelandic laws and regulations. This is followed by the review of the surveillance committee, and I have to disagree pretty much. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's opinion of it. The role of the surveillance committee is being extended, and in the Committee's panel is specifically required for the importance of the surveillance committee and for the obligatory and clearness of the duties of the authorities, the police and others to provide information and other factors. [[The president calls.]] Although this is not a complete retrospective, it is a significant step in progress and, of course, I support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u51	Mr. President. The Department of Social Affairs for the Agency has submitted to the General Assembly on the affairs of immigrants. Last year, the bill was submitted to the General Assembly, but it was not granted. Clearly, the government is going to put this matter through the Senate before the election. The bill includes changing the role of a Multi-Same centre and is intended to make the Agency a contact between refugees, rural partners and the labour oce. To improve perspective over the group and, likewise, a decision-making campaign is to become more efficient. In addition, the advisory role of the Agency is more important to rural society. I don't make comments about this changing role as a Polymate. It does good things, but it is not a major issue in this bill, even though it is tried to put it in a costume that it is primarily about providing information. But that's not the case. A paper with the bill has a phrase that attracts attention. It says that regardless of how it comes to the country, a consistent welcome system is working to provide refugees with equal service. Here we need to pause and see what this really means. The primary objective of the bill is not to change or change the role of a multicultural site. The primary objective of the bill is to balance the status of refugees, regardless of local refugees, refugees, or members of the family unit of refugees. V.E.G. A minister has informed that with this bill there will be no distinction between the capitalist and the trustees who will be granted entitlement at the time of service. So when the matter was first presented that these groups would be given the same service, a minister answered. In the case of the law, so to speak, the law will give the same service to the trustees, and the kooks will be given the same service. It should be made clear here that this is a fundamental change, a fundamental change that is not being made because it is placed in the sense that the stage of mass civilization is centrally important, that its function is being extended and its service levels, including the number of services. ... wecontinents. What is not discussed in the bill, however, is that this fundamental change will result in a substantial increase in financial capacity for the state's funds. It won't happen tomorrow if the bill is accepted today, but within a few months of its execution, it will become a law. With this change, we're sending out the message that there is an increase in the service of those seeking refuge at the same time as that of the neighboring countries, such as the U.S.A. Denmark, now Sweden, aims to have fewer trustees come in these countries. However, the government of Independence Class, Front Class, and Left Green is acting in the opposite direction to Sweden and Denmark, who have much experience in this category and much longer and more experience than we do. Improved services to the trustees will translate the growth of applications for international protection. It doesn't take much science to see it, people search in the best ministry, and it quickly turns out. I hereby, Mr President, that already Iceland has a very good service, one of the best in Europe. It'll even come. past the Ministry of Justice, so that we do not render inferior service to the trustees. The bill refers to this as a one - year test project, but it is very likely to be extended. What will be more apparent, however, is that this will send a clear message about the service offered in Iceland for those taking refuge. Last year, Iceland hosted 85 portitors, but a 631 restitutionor obtained leave. The average cost due to the reception of hostpower for singles is about 6 million. K. This year and, Mr. President, I have to say, it's odd to transfer the rights of the hosts to the trustees. It is two different things, people we agree to agree to with the United Nations Refugee Fund and to take care of, i.e. Quartetists, and then people who come here on their own and not even realize whether they meet the international conditions of being refugees. Nevertheless, the bill stands in the way of rendering people exactly the same service. Mr. President. I'm a spokesman for choosing our own refugees who come here. It is my personal opinion that there should be a key element in our course when it comes to the capture of refugees, that we ourselves choose the refugees who come here. Dan and his family have set the goal of not finding any refuge in the future. Although they work hard to see the changes in their regulations, Dan and his men will continue to accept refugees. Why should we choose the ones who come here? Yeah, I'll answer that. I believe we should choose those who have the greatest need for it, women and children and families who live in a war - torn environment. We are to choose those who come here because the security system as it is today is abused by people who do not need it. There's a lot of people here looking for a better standard of living and looking for a job. There is no legitimate reason to get asylum here, nor in neighboring lands. They won't tell us when they get to the country. It's well known. They then enter the system, and it takes months for them to be confirmed that they are not entitled to a home. This month's funds will have to be paid housing, day-to-day money, health care, etc. This requires money that can be used for those who really need it. No one can deny that the security system is abused. It is abused in all countries. If you have doubts about being abused in this country, you should meet with the police at Keflavík Airport. We often discuss what might be done for the government. We will discuss how much better we could get into the medical system that requires a lot of money. But when it comes to the fact that there are a lot of things to be done better in the security system, some senators run up to the hands and feet and do not want to change anything at all, do not harden the rules at all, do not try to save the government's money, just receive as many people, do not matter whether they have a right to asylum here or not, whether they're abusing the system or not. However, it is not just some members of the council who run up to and up to their feet when the entertainment system is criticized. Similarly, some media practice practicing this, not to mention social media. I've personally met a person who came here on false grounds as a connoisseur and spent nearly a year at the cost of the state. The person lives in Georgia, and I met him at a restaurant in the capital city of Tiblis, where he served at a table. When he asked me where I was from, and I told him, he said he came to Iceland, not as a tourist, but as a fugitive. I asked them if he had been persecuted in Georgia, where there is no war. No, he wasn't persecuted, he said, he just wanted to come to Iceland and knew some Georgians who had done it. The search system here in Iceland is a man's job. Those who refuse to fix it in order to avoid abuse need to decide whether it is okay to betray money from a government fund. These rules, Mr. President, are to be reinforced in order to prevent abuse. It's against the law to misuse your social security system, to accept compensation that you don't have the right to. Here, however, there is much too little to do to prevent the abuse of the security system. And who will it bite on? Yes, the one who really needs help. It is being prevented from helping as many people as possible. The middle class supports helping those living in miserable conditions in war - torn areas, but we want to make the most of our limited resources. We do not do this by keeping people in our homes for a year, and sometimes for up to two years, which, in turn, does not have the right to get a home. We can help as many people cooperate with international institutions in this area. To send money to these institutions will be of great benefit to others. For each of the inmates here, it is possible to help up to 12 members of the international community. These figures come from the United Nations Refugee Fund. Let us consider only the services that a host family has received here, and the government will choose specifically. I'm not criticizing this service, just informing who it is. Remuneration is paid for one year, December and child support for one year, and pay is paid for preschooling 100,000 bucks. in a month for 11 months, nine months' school meals, nine months' vacation home, a school start-up scholarship and a one-time pay for sports and leisure activities, a two-month presentation, a two-month high school for two busy, health care and medicine for six months, dental services for 115,000 bucks, psychology services for 264,000 per person, and other psychological counseling for 12 months. Home support is paid, 100,000 bucks. per family, employee guidance is paid, $390,000. per family, interpretation services of 220,000 k. has a family, houses for two months, and community housing for 12 months, eyeglasses 30,000, phone, and Internet net for one month, bus cards. Also making a government contract with the Red Cross for service, the cost is about 600,000. on an individual and is the addition to the above. This is the kind of service that we perform to those in need, and we endeavor to welcome them and we choose them ourselves. Last year these were 85 individuals. If this bill is legal, the trustees who come here will receive exactly the same service. As I mentioned earlier, in the United States over 85akors were received, while 631 inmates were granted enfortation. To argue here that this bill will cost only 24 million is completely out of the map, Mr. President. I say again, the Icelanders have received a warm welcome to the men who were in England. They come frequently from war - torn lands. We will continue to take care of this group and help with their adjustment in Icelandic society. By rendering the same service to those seeking refuge and to those in need, they simply go too far. The message goes out quickly, and the application for asylum in Iceland will multiply in a short time, since Iceland is known for providing one of the best services in the category of languages. A few years ago, some 6,000 prostitutes came to the border of Norway from Russia in a few weeks. Are the local authorities prepared to receive this number of applications in a few weeks? Norway hardened the rules following this case. The Ministry of Justice has published that the number of candidates for international protection in Iceland has become one of the largest in Europe and the largest in the Northern countries on the appeal list. The Independence Party has had this party in its research for years and is clearly completely incapable of solving this problem. He lacks proper firmness and has failed to deal with the problem. The management board is unable to provide applications within adequate time, and direct costs for the forward of trust seekers are increasing rapidly. Last year, it cost the taxpayers 4.5 billion and is rising rapidly, and there is silence for indirect costs. Mr. President. It is important to simplify and speed the application procedure for international protection to improve the effectiveness and shorten the duration of the treatment and reduce unnecessary expenses for the state's funds. There is an enormous cost to lawyers, rents, security, and so forth while people are waiting for a decision, people who in many cases are not entitled to get a permit here because they came here on the wrong grounds. I want to see that this money is spent to those in distress in war - torn lands. That is my opinion after arriving at even a few refugee camps in the Middle East. Last year the Minister of Justice gave a bill for a change in the law of foreigners at the General Assembly. The bill was designed to enable governments to quickly and safely deliver applications that do not lead to global protection. The bill did not succeed as a result of controversy in the government. We are under obligation to assist those in prisons to take into account the small people and to prevent misuse of the receiver's systems by false information and unfounded applications. That's a job for all members of Congress to be concerned about. Iceland has not followed the example of Dana and the Norwegians, and it has not published a strict non - Israelite rule. is put on social services in Norway and Denmark because in Iceland these issues are simply indiscriminate because of lack of policy, inadequate management and legal support at the taxpayers' expense. In 2004, the 48-hour rule was to take out applications in Norway to reduce unprovoked applications and make the system more efficient. It was just an advertisement that reads: Are you leaving your country looking for a better standard of living? You're leaving your country for work? These are not legal reasons for getting international protection in Norway. You will be referred back. This is a text from advertisements published by the Norwegian government on the main networks. In addition, it is published in the advertisement that the rules have been expanded in Norway. Danes have published similar advertisements. There is a turning point for foreigners in Sweden. There are big and big news, and they speak with a lot of experience in this series of languages. It has become more difficult for the Swedish Parliament to increase its language requirements, limit family migration, and make it harder to obtain leaves on welfare grounds. There are members of the Swedish Parliament who are very familiar with and experienced with this sect. It must be normal, Mr. President, for us to look to the northern countries in this regard, what their experience is. These rules are being harded in Norway and Denmark, as I traced at the beginning. At the same time, we Icelanders are going the opposite direction. We're advertising with a change in this bill that we're here to improve this service and it's natural that more people are coming here. But this service is not bad, it is one of the best services being provided in Europe. This conversation has completely forgotten. Clearly, those who win this bill have not thought of it. I say for my part that you're looking at the Arctic experience in this regard, that's the wisest thing in the situation, and don't go in the opposite direction as we're doing here. Mr. President. This bill of the Prosecutor of the Agency is held at a high level of fault. It can only be of cost to two places in the Multi-Semitic area of 24 million. K. Each year, when the cost may, in effect, turn into billions of dollars, we would lose the group of litigators. It has to be said, as it is, that in this discussion, the absence of members of the Independence Party and the forward party is noteworthy. I'll let that be my final statement in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u52	A respectable president. I need an independent speech to review everything I disagree with. From what was presented in his talk, a senator wrote about. But I wanted to ask you what. Last year, according to a talk, a senator of this number, 631 inmates. A senator I'm not questioning. I'd like to ask you what. Whether these are too many people, whether Icelandic economy or Icelandic society is beyond their control. Then I'd like to spit on it. A senator found 4,500 children born last year. They don't give economics to the community in the first decade or until they start paying taxes. At that time, they need care, education systems, health programs, financial resources. Counts 'em out. Don't a senator have a problem with the birth of 4,500 children who give little or nothing to society in the next 15 years? It's a problem, isn't it? It's too much, isn't it? Does this mean that there is an Icelandic community? I can see why. A senator is here discussing the cost of serving people while they are waiting for conclusions and even after they arrive at their conclusions, all in good condition. But I would like to ask. A senator from where he gets the number 6 billion. K. on you. In case of a moment. The senator shares this about 4 billion bucks. the cost of 631 shelterers, he assumes that today's system is designed to let people in. But the system is for keeping people out. It's an expense that comes from the fact that these people can't be here. It doesn't take 4 billion to let in 630 Poles, Greeks, Italians, Portusala, Germans, or Finns because they can stay here. The cost is to keep the wall and guard it. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator how he feels about 4,500 new children in Iceland, which we have to pay for for the next 15 years, whether a community can handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u53	Mr. President. This comparison, discussing births in Iceland and horrified people, is just ridiculous. I am happy for any child born in Iceland who would have wanted them to be more. Hv. One senator asked me where I had received this number, six million, as an individual among the kooks now costs. These figures come from the labour service of the General Assembly, and the expense teams I traced to my speech are due to the service offered to the host. This information comes from all the information services of the General Assembly. Hv. A senator introduced the system to what it was like, i.e. to keep people out. The system here in Iceland is just so it's a problem, everyone can come in here and then say that they have reasons to be accepted into this service we know. They then have to wait months to get a conclusion that in many cases is that they are not entitled to a asylum, I traced it in my speech, and that costs a considerable amount of money. It's something that's going to have to stop this country from coming. It must be possible to dismiss these people immediately at the airport when they are not entitled to come to this country, as I specifically mentioned in my speech. I've met someone who's told me he cheated on this system here in Iceland and a lot more of his land. I thought it'd be right to be able to do it here because that's how it is in many cases. We need to strengthen these rules because we can make much more use of this money. And I've already said it here, well. A senator, that I want to see this money for the sake of those who are really in need, not only in legal areas here in Iceland, rent, and all kinds of expense workers while people are waiting to get a no because it comes here on false grounds. There's something we just have to stop and I think it's okay. A senator must agree with me that such abuse of this system needs to be prevented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u54	A respectable president. I just can't figure out why. A senator is so anxious that this fine servant would undoubtedly be there. A senator met briefly in Georgia not to be in Iceland. Why is there a problem with some people from Georgia moving to Iceland? It is not a problem that the Greeks do, or Italians, or French, or 600 million people living in Europe who are members of the EEA and the EU community. Why is this a problem if someone from Georgia or Albania does? Why can't people just come here and work? Is there 630 something wrong with the Icelandic economy? I agree with what. A senator, I welcome the 4,500 neonates in Iceland, but I asked to show that there is more to the expense of population growth. It's hardly a problem here, 630 people coming through the rest of the security system, is it, Mr. Honorable President? Or what? Because if you were. A senator is just thinking about the cost and not, for example. Where people come from or what religion there is, there is a very obvious way to meet the challenge. I agree with what. Senator, I don't want the system to be abused, and I don't want it to cost out of the question. But the solution is, not to expand the stall that costs all this money, but to make it possible for people to come here and work and work. It's okay with me because a Georgian servant wants to visit Iceland. I don't quite know why. A senator has such a problem with that idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u55	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is just not consistent. He makes no comment that there will be a Georgian person at the cost of the state for months, leaving less than a year later, cost some 6 billion. K. from a fund, they didn't have the right to come here, but they just wanted to visit the country. At the same time, what does it say? Senator not to abuse the system. I was pointing out the abuse of the system. I'm sure they can come here as tourists, but they can't come here on false grounds and let the state funds pay for it. [[And work?]] It's an abuse of the system. Hv. A senator must understand that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u56	I see.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u57	Yeah, that's good to hear. This is the point and this abuse has to be prevented because we can use the money in a much more efficient way, for example. In refugee camps and in most lands where there are war - torn countries, there are children and women and others who are truly in need of help. I'd like to use the money to help these people, but not for some sort of legal cost and all kinds of cost of having people here for months who then decide they shouldn't have come here and that they came here on false charges. This has to stop. This will stop neighboring countries, huh? Senator. Surely all of us would agree that we should do the same. It's just that way. But we are here to take good care of those who need help, and I have said that I especially want us to choose our own refugees who come to the country. If so, we can certainly find out who is in need of the ministry, as we have done through international institutions. We've received a number of vagrants, I'm not against that at all. We're supposed to take good care of them. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u58	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to correct a problem. A senator who speaks of us opening up for some kind of crack in new service to the trustees. This bill is linking the negotiations made by five rural societies to the Foreign Institute for services to candidates for international protection, which I believe. A senator knows absolutely about it. It is being associated with the Multihuman Society to provide them with information that is suitable for, what service, or what rural society is suitable for an individual applying for international protection, whether it is suitable to go to Akureyri or so on. There is no expansion or opening of any service beyond that. It is totally incomprehensible that this misunderstanding could occur, for by a consistent welcome, we are supporting our rural society to provide better service to this group we have already done, so that the right individuals receive the right service. We're just talking about improving the services we've already made a deal. I'm just asking, is it bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u59	Mr. President. I've heard this talk before. A senator, but a good man. A senator doesn't seem to understand the bill. I asked the highest. Social Affairs Minister to whether this bill meant that the same service was available for the eaters and the trustees. V.E.G. The minister answered yes, that the same ministry was being done. That's what the report says. A senator who doesn't seem to understand it himself. The report says that regardless of how it comes to the country, with a consistent welcome system, it is working to provide refugees with equal service. I can read it again before then. A senator, no matter how he gets to the country. This means that everyone receives the same service, and it will mean more expenses because they do not receive the same service today as do eaters. The ministry is being expanded to such an extent. A senator can give this talk several times, like a broken record, if you don't mind my saying, but it's only simple. V.E.G. Minister has answered. I asked the highest. Minister to this, and that's the point, okay? Senator. It's the same service for everyone. We're sending out this message. If the bill is approved, this message is issued. This will mean an increase in cost. This may not happen tomorrow, but it will happen in a few months when you realize that this has become the most important service for the trustees throughout Europe, all of Scandinavia. It's going to mean extra money for the government budget, and there's only a limited amount of money, that's just one way. The wealth has become a huge debt, and all we have to do is show confidentiality in the financial affairs of the state. That's not done in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u60	Mr. President. I guess that's what it means to get back to the same routine, so I'll try to help the highest level. A president without my own knowledge. But anyway, we'll discuss this case here, which is very vivid of how this government, and in fact, more people, approach the political bitch these days. All things are based on packaging and expressing goals rather than on the true nature and content of the matter, let alone the real impact of the matter. Hv. At the beginning of the discussion, the chairman of this statement emphasized the nature of this discourse. A senator went so far as to claim it, before the discussion began in a different way than with a talk. An authority, that all criticism of the matter must be based on racism. Mr. President. Racism is one of the worst things to blame. Trying to make good use of such charges without cause, and even in advance, to try to prevent discussion, democratic discussion of a big and important matter, is embarrassing to me. I would have liked to see the president who was then in the President's chair react and encourage him. A senator to guard his words. Sadly, though, from a certain political point of view, it has become foreign to make accusations about the worst in order to try to stamp men out and to keep them from provocation, reasoning. I'm sorry to see it. A senator will attempt such an experiment at the beginning of a discussion on this important subject because this is an important matter, this is a big deal. The problem of refugees has the world's largest topics. And if we can agree that this is a big matter, we must want to approach it in the most successful way and help most people, doing the most good for those who need help. We must also be ready to discuss how it is best to do so rather than come here with some bandages and put them ahead of time, they intend to bring the criticism to the fore. It seems that the matter cannot be tolerated by those who present it here. In this relatively small discussion or efforts by supporters to explain this, however, they have consistently and virtually without exception endeavoring to reevaluate the matter. V.E.G. A social minister would do this more repeatedly if he said that those who disagreed or had any doubts about the matter were opposed to learning Icelandic. This, of course, dissuaded the minister. In fact, the chairman of the case has explained that the minister was wrong regarding the impact of the case on Icelandic education. Otherwise, this is about providing information, that information can be transmitted. Instead, it is totally overlooked by the stated target to which the bill is to promote, i.e. to extend the same service to people who come here, whether they are invited here after going through a legal process in cooperation with the United Nations and meeting requirements, or they are looking for, for example. Criminals smuggle themselves into the country, go on a dangerous mission that often causes people to lose all their possessions, and some even die. In other words, that it doesn't matter how people come here, the same procedure for service should apply. But what are they doing with this? It is developing a stronger incentive to avoid the means of doing this that we have urged refugees to take advantage of, the legal way. They are developing stronger incentives to take a rather dangerous course, to give everything they have to criminals, and to continue smuggling or to come on false charges, misinformed. If they believe that such inducers are irrelevant to the number of applications, then the same ones have not studied in any part of the case. It is fundamental in these matters that information on what services are available and what rules are highly rapid and abused in some cases by very dangerous crime groups. I have already mentioned an example of this, and I have pointed out that other countries, to produce Danir, have responded by advertising the Internet, and even in newspapers in distant lands, what the rules are there to encourage those who read those advertisements to go on the legal, safe route but do not look to gangs. Mr. President. For good reason, in Iceland, refuge applications are now six times the number in Norway and Denmark, six times as many. Not many years have passed since they were the longest in Iceland of the North countries. Of course, there are reasons why they came to the northern countries sooner, and as a result, relatives may have been looking to places where their land had settled. But, of course, it also matters that Iceland is an island, and to get here, other countries need to be passed when people come from most of the countries that come from where takers come. There was a reasonable explanation. In view of the uniqueness that perhaps we were better equipped to stress the control of whom we were invited to the country ourselves, Iceland was engaged in the Schengen Team and the Dublin Protocol. In a few years, however, the number of applications has changed so much that they have become six times as many in Iceland as in Norway and Denmark. This did not happen automatically. This is the result of the message the other North countries have been sending away, e.g. ... witha change of law, a change in order, even by advertising, as I mentioned earlier. However, this is the result of the message the Icelandic government has been sending back, sending along this bill more clearly than ever before. It involves a fundamental estimate of what is the most successful destination and whether it is best to try to get there on a legal, safe route, or other more dangerous and worse route. For good reason, however, governments in other countries have recently worked for a complete, fundamental change in their course and disseminated from what has been proposed by the government of Iceland. Iceland's government goes in the opposite direction to the rest of the North. What effect would this have on the real world when it has already come to the fact that taking refuge in Iceland is six times the proportion of people in Denmark and Norway? What should be the effect when the Icelandic government leads in the opposite direction to the policy of the other northern countries, all of which aim to achieve a better control over who comes to the country to the point where prime minister of Denmark has said that the goal is not to come to Denmark? That may sound harsh, but the Danish prime minister did not say that the Danites would not welcome the refugees, certainly not, but that the emphasis should be that Dan was leading the country themselves. In other words, all emphasis is now in Denmark and elsewhere to encourage the safe use of the legal route and to try to create barriers to using other dangerous, even illegal, methods. This is done, as politicians in the Northern countries explain, including the prime minister's Danish, especially so that their countries are not used by dangerous gangs to take all their money and send it on a dangerous mission. Here, the Icelandic government presents the opposite route, an incentive for the dangerous route, while the other northern countries will do what they can to explain to people that they must go the legal way, thus hoping to find refuge as refugees. As a result, we have been able to welcome the refugees in Iceland in international comparison, and we have had that objective, I think that for a long time there was a great deal of agreement in Icelandic politics. But what will happen to our chances of taking the best of what is expected of most of the people whom we invite here if we no longer have control over the situation and who will come, on what basis, and how? Then we lose the government government that feels that is absolutely essential for welcoming people, helping them to adjust to society, and helping society to develop natural and maintain a powerful welfare system. Obviously it will have an effect. Surprisingly, people allow themselves to overlook the issue of any effect, and that they have not made one attempt to assess the level of growth, whether it will be ten times as many applicants in Iceland as in Denmark, or fifteen times, twenty times, or have made one single attempt to assess the cost. Of course, all of this costs and money is limited. In this series of issues, especially where life, health, and well - being depend on people, we must want to make the most of the resources available and help people to the best of their means. Instead, people come here and talk about it, saying: "It's only another matter what this effect is, it's under another minister, expected, what will be the effect of the case we expect you to accept here, whether others will take advantage of the ministry, and whether it will increase the cost. It's just someone else looking at it. It would be a great opportunity for a minister if he and his wife began to take advantage of the possibility of offering a case and explaining that it's a good thing and doing good things. What are their options? It is not their field of work, it is another minister, so that it is not to be discussed with the case that is being discussed today. For example, a bill could be provided to improve the quality of the microorganism. The same minister could do so, and no one would argue that it was not urgent and important to ensure that micropigs are optimal. So why doesn't the minister do this in that case, and then he says: "How is this financed is a completely different matter for another minister? Of course, we must look at this large issue as a whole and on the whole effect of their greatness. The worst part is that they would make it much more difficult for us to help as many as possible, to help those most in need. It contains such negative inducers instead of positive inducers that enables humans to help as much as the rest of the North countries are doing. In the second speech, I will focus on policy in other parts of the North and especially on the major milestones of the Danish industry. I don't know what names are. In view of this statement, the leading director of the case would call Denmark's prime minister. At the beginning of the discussion, a senator indicated that all criticism in the way of the Icelandic government was a sign of racialism. I'm a little afraid that if the harmony should be in the state of state. A senator would need the highest. The president to intervene when the time comes. However, we hope that people will turn away from such things and discuss the contents of the matter rather. The content of the matter is important. This is a group of paintings that are immensely large, difficult to deal with, life, and health of people. This is also a group of paintings that will only increase because if forwards and odds are high, refugees and shelters that are not necessarily the same thing will grow to a great deal in the coming years and even decades. Rather, we need to have a strategy that is in place to cope with the situation today, even predictable trends, and to do all we can instead of using this category, as has become all too bad among those who are sometimes called the good people or the Šybubbles, to declare that the individual is good, while all who disagree are evil. Such an important subject cannot be accessed in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u61	President. We here discuss relatively small and simple matters in terms of our wanting to improve and coordinate the welcome of refugees, doing so by strengthening the role of a multicultural site. This is a work that has its roots, and I think I should take it correctly on a move plan on the affairs of immigrants approved at the Council of the autumn of 2016. The case has been presented in the past, has not been resolved, and now we will make others, and hopefully, our final attempt to do so. In itself, I have nothing to do with the fine history of a man. Kristjánsdóttir I Signý to come up here for two reasons, but I wanted to give two brief talks. On the one hand, I was simply looked over the speaker's list and followed along, hearing the tone the members of the Central Party sound. I don't like the appearance of it being that it's the voice of a Senate because it's far away. I have listened attentively to members of the Middle Party, and I realize that they are not discussing this matter at all in themselves. They are discussing their course that should come here only to a specially chosen people, and I have not reached out for the choice of hand that pleases them. They use their natural opportunities to share their views with them. It's good and good, but I'd like to come here with a message. We Icelanders are a rich nation, and we are rich in many ways, and we are rich for many reasons. The wealth we possess because of the number of immigrants that have come here, adapt to Icelandic society, and share with us those who have already improved, strengthen, and enhance our beautiful community, will certainly not be measured only in crowns and pennies. But such a standard can be set if we want to, for it has been expressed many times. There are entire industry in Iceland that has a lot to do with immigrants and even whole local law. I welcome this matter and trust that this time it will be successful because it is in many ways so important that we welcome the people who come here, so easy to become the participants in an Icelandic society they choose to be. We have so much to strengthen ourselves as the open, free society that we have become and that we can become better. But I'd also like to mention one thing, and I'll come up here and discuss it with the various kinds of government impairments, and we, the lawgiver, have placed on Icelandic society under control. Unfortunately, and there's no pretty spot on us, it's stated that the message of the impairment and standards of conduct that we are given has not returned to immigrants who are not perfectly recommended in Icelandic language or well associated with the administration or community in general. It has been concluded that this message did not reach these people correctly, to our fellow citizens. That's too bad. I say for myself, I'm well connected, I'm well acquainted with our language, and I often find it complicated. I can't recite all the rules that apply, e.g. now about how I should behave except in this day-to-day bedside, which I hope is clear. We must do better, and we need to share the message. It's a nice test of how open our community we are, whether we're responding to our duties as a community to all people. This particular matter will make up for a group of immigrants, but as a community, we can take this any further and we don't really think that we're inviting people here to welcome, even celebrate and chairs to a group of immigrants, if we're not going to make sure they get the information they need. I wanted to share this with you first. This is an excellent opportunity. I know that this particular matter is thus growing, that it is primarily designed to give the Enlightenment to the Enlightenment and the concerted acceptance of refugees. But I feel that along with that good goal, there is a good opportunity to reflect on how we approach it in the big picture by expounding the role of this session or assigning it to some sources, securing interpretation services. For example, I mention that in translation basics fail, as is the need for a desirable verse. You can imagine what it's like to have in planning to follow certain rules but to be misinformed. We all know that there is a considerable difference between our freedom when it is being restricted, whether it is desirable for us to act in any way or necessary. These are things that matter. Other than that, I trust that this matter will not be tolerated because there are differing opinions on foreigners in general, how we will deal with them in the future. This matter stands and falls by itself. This is a very important matter and is the key to the people we are inviting here to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u62	V.E.G. President. I jumped down here where I heard what I heard. A member of the Parliament deals with immigrants and Icelandics. It has not been so long since a study at the University of Akureyri helped us to realize that we have a real problem helping immigrants in Icelandic school. The situation is so bad that I remember, and now I don't have the numbers because I was in a hurry, that it's about 80% of people who say it doesn't matter whether they're studying Icelandic or not. That's why I wanted to have ideas. A senator's comments on how we can improve our quality - the quality of this relationship, the quality of our language. Either way. A senator even feels that we should demand that immigrants take a test in Icelandic language as noted in other countries. I specifically mention this test because it is one of the points presented in this study that immigrants themselves would want them to meet some kind of quality requirements, if we can say so, because by doing so they would be carefully taught. That's the point I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not familiar with these specific numbers or polls. A senator refers to something, but it doesn't matter. If I understand why. A member of the Parliament does well to ask whether we put some obligation on immigrants to learn Icelandic to improve the quality of our teaching. I'd rather turn it around and say, "If I were absolutely convinced that this was a loyal access to good Icelandic education, and with loyalty I mean that it was so done that my immigrants would have both the opportunity and the resources to use them, we might be able to talk about whether it was normal to set some boundaries, some obligation on the shoulders of these same immigrants would be able to learn about them and be able to speak in them. I know that it's a wide range of foreign conditions, e.g. For financial assistance when immigrants are getting their feet in line. But that is absolutely fundamental before discussing this above to ensure that teaching is there. And then I'm stating that it's not just a question of throwing up the course. Rather, it has to be clear that people have the opportunity to study these matters. Of course, it is of utmost importance, especially if we take family members as an example, since we know that parents are trapped because they do not study and interpret. There are well - known examples all over the world, and it is important for us to make adjustments in Icelandic society the best possible way. [[The president calls.]] But so complete and uncalled for, I would turn it up to make sure that this is the first thing we need to do before we go through any further research.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u64	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by correcting myself. There were 60% who were unhappy, 25% satisfied, and there was some group between them that was almost happy and almost disgruntled, who plays in there. I'd still like to say something. A senator in that's exactly what we have to do, i.e. making sure things are all right before we start setting up even more terms for the existing institutions. [[Up front.]] - No, but I understood why. A senator so that we would need to respond, keep these things in order to keep ourselves in line for this service. I hope I haven't misunderstood anything, and I don't cause any misunderstandings by the way I make this statement. The way we serve and meet immigrants in Iceland is not too well for us today. I've put up a case about community-girls. I've also presented a case about judges. This is in order to try to prepare the services we offer, but it is by no means sufficient. One might be that we would try to listen more attentively to immigrants'voices, which call for more good things. They give special attention to Icelandic education, which I think is of utmost importance to us so that we can do the best we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u65	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by correcting, because there was a misunderstanding. I was far from saying that there would have to be a teaching program in the language before agencies could be assigned to help. [[Up front.]] I was saying that in order to make them available to immigrants, they said that they needed to learn Icelandic in order to get help from the institutions, they would have to be there for them. Above all, this teaching and access to it should be guaranteed if it is to be considered in some connection with services rendered. It was the point, just so it's perfectly clear. I know it's been done abroad, that in the case of immigrants who have the status of a fugitive or a refugee, and who receive such assistance, they are offered this training, which I know is also there but may not be as thorough as we would like to be. Regarding the suggestions given by the senator, and she has improved the service of refugees, that is the case we speak of today - I can't interpret it any other than that of the group. A senator is strongly opposed - just talking about improving for the sake of disabled refugees and securing services for them. So this case is being handled. Other ideas as hell. A senator who would add services to certain groups of refugees is a matter that should be addressed here and would even have been pleased to see as a change in this particular case and as a project that might be accepted by a multicultural site. In fact, I believe that being here in general with a partnership of services, counselling and dealings with the communities, about how to behave these services, includes these factors, so that I would be very interesting to see these things mixed up there and these items come into, because I agree with them. A senator's concern is that it's important to have these things in order. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u66	Mr. President. Here we continue to discuss a bill for law that focuses on a uniform service for people who look to us for international protection. Before I give my speech, I'd like to remind you, both other members of the council who have gone up in the General Assembly and those who listen to this discussion, that this bill is about the concerted welcome of refugees, that there should be a multi-cultural hearing of professional counsel and advice on the concerted welcome of refugees. A multicultural site is entrusted with more extensive roles because of the concerted welcome of refugees by providing professional counseling and counselling to local communities, e.g. with the publication of the guide, the preparation of individualised programmes, checklists, regular information sharing and support in difficult and complex individual matters, as well as the provision of the Agency for an educational meeting. I am very pleased with this bill because it is a small step, but it is important that I respond to the pleas to bring the refugees to our search for and to add services to that group and, more importantly, to coordinate the work of the number of rural communities throughout the country who have declared themselves ready and more than ready to participate in the social and moral responsibilities that rest on our shoulders that are accepting people who are seeking international protection, are on the run and provide them with a sensitive group such as a good service. I also like to see that a majority of the welfare committees have listened to the review of the Developmental Fund and that they have come up with the views that are particularly concerned about disabled people in this delicate group. In other words, that group is sensitive in two ways, i.e. People who are disabled among those who are fleeing and who come to us for protection. So I'd like to commend you. The welfare committee for taking it into their review. I would also like to point out that in the reviews of the Red Cross and the Allied Union of Iceland, there are basic indications and debates about this bill when it comes to the affairs of immigrants and refugees in this country, which so far have been lacking, i.e. that governments have to shape a global policy in the affairs of immigrants and refugees for the future. During this election period, a Senate committee has sat here with the task of revising alien laws. This committee has hardly met, hardly made a single decision, nor has it produced any suggestions to reform the current alien law, although there was truly an opportunity. Governments have not been willing to sit down and shape a global policy in this series of issues that have been prominent in European and American politics and in many parts of the world, as well as in this country. That must have been pathetic. Some say that it is not the solution to develop here a specific policy on the affairs of refugees and immigrants. I say it's an essential tool for us to support ourselves and keep us in, to keep a course in this suit. The fact is that worldwide, according to the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, 775 million people are fleeing. It is also the evaluation of the United Nations and other highly respected and large humanitarian organizations, not only organizations, but organizations, that because of climate change, and we are already seeing that effect, more and more people will have to flee their homes because of drought, lack of crops, poverty, famine, etc. Therefore, this group of subjects is not going anywhere. Rather, we need to sit down and shape our entire policy. What do we want to do in this issue? We want to let humanity be our guide, or we want to be on a different line, like some whales. Unfortunately, members of the council who have spoken here have been making such a mistake? In answer to yesterday's question. Ísleifsson I said that I felt very disappointed and sad about the presentation that was presented in his speech, that this case is being used, which is about efficiency, and is about improving and synchronizing services to people who need it, for another purpose to treat the viewpoints of immigrants that I would like to see that the middle party is not making a lot of money if you're looking at the latest polls on conformities. Even so, recent public polls have shown that there is a more general reason for us to put our arms around this group of more humanitarianities and in society a positive attitude toward those who turn to us for international protection. Let us remember this when we speak of this group. I like this case in another way too. It is interesting that when the Syria War broke out, which has lasted far too long for ten years, the first reaction was that a 21 rural society, to remind me, throughout the country declared itself ready and ready to accept refugees who were fleeing a terrifying situation. It shows the will of people to do good in this group of people, to offer people who will escape a tragic situation, and who will be willing to offer the services of rural society throughout the country, and not least to offer quality of life, peace, and tranquillity that the Icelandic community offers, and people will be looking for when they have experienced such disasters as the Syrian War. Mr. President. I was running here, but I was trying to listen to a talk. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, referred to a dance band of officers and their policy in the affairs of immigrants and refugees. I would like to remind you that dance partners and Danish governments stand out as different from the Norwegian and European partnerships when it comes to the affairs of immigrants and refugees and have been criticized for their policies, both by human rights and by their European sisters. The decision of a Danish government to return refugees to Syria and at the same time to be the only government in Europe that will do so. It is highly critical to consider Syria as a secure state, Mr. President, and I am convinced that we in Iceland will not follow that issue. But back to the case we're discussing today. When it comes to the welcome of refugees in this country, a coordinated operation has been called for. When people escape, many institutions come to us, and they have many touching features, and they need a consistent approach to make them feel comfortable. This is the bill in order to improve this service, and not only to improve it but also to enable people to participate in Icelandic society earlier, to receive the information they should have, and to provide information to people who are looking for us. We have a responsibility in this regard. I referred to a speech of some. Gunnlaugsson I'm sorry, but I heard a certain piece of his speech at least. There were some good points there. Right away. A senator was one of the best things his government did to make a decision to provide previously unknown funds to immigrants and refugees. He did so with stavudine, providing 2 billion for that series of lawsuits for the war of Syria and tens of millions, if not hundreds of millions of dollars for a European relief project. So I think the members of the Central Party come up here often and talk in the face of their language. I am also convinced that we can unite in serving as the best possible service to refugees and immigrants, and especially in the situation in which there is a great unemployment among immigrants. It is also worthwhile to think that these are different groups. Often during the discussion, as well as at the council, they are also mixing the food force with people who are looking for international protection, immigrants who have come here to work and pay their taxes, and other groups are also involved. I'd like to point out the comments from the town of Smokeynes on this subject. Smokeytown suffers from high unemployment rates on young people, women, and people of foreign background. Since the percentage of workers from abroad has been very high among the unemployed, it is good to see the positive comments of Smokejanestown, who celebrate the change in the bill, which aims to balance the status of refugees, whether in the case of refugees in a group of government offers, on their own roads, or through the family unit of refugees. Thus, according to the review, there will be an increased perspective on the sect and the decision-making will be more efficient, and the Agency's counseling role will be more relevant to rural society and state organisations as well as to the well-registered registration and data supply. Similarly, from the gradual individual service outlined in the bill on integrating the services of successful children, there is an opportunity to link the work of a multicultural facility to a new level of welfare work. That's good to see. It's good for the rural communities to step in with a positive review. They want to improve their practice, to improve their ministry, to share in improving our community, from wherever we come from, and from whatever background we are and to make it a success. It is important to pause at the comments of a Union member of the United States that projects related to the concerted welcome of refugees are a great dismay compared to what was already under way at the time of induction. Money has been cut into the social security contracts, and it does not seem to be the business of improving the extra expenses that come from increased pressure on the school system and from child protection. This is an extremely important point because we are talking about service to individuals, to people, and it is important that we put money in such a way that we are not complaining about the money involved. The funds are well spent in adding services to people of foreign background, refugees, and immigrants. Of course, it must be followed, and we need to keep things so that our rural communities are not taking on greater burdens if they do not have the resources to live up to it. We must make sure that at the General Assembly, where the legal rights are concerned, there is plenty of money available to this seminary. In today's state of life, the lack of interpretation and translation in the case of public service has led to the failure of immigrants, and this happens to itself in the absence of it. People of foreign backgrounds - refugees or immigrants - need reliable information about their rights and duties in the community and at work. So we need to make sure that people are also aware of their rights and duties. Here's a good bill. It's about conving the welcome of refugees and checking in. That's fine. I encourage all those who want to learn the comments to do so. I spoke of this as an important step, but it has to take longer to attack the global policy of long-term, looking at all the populations when it comes to the mutual adaptation of refugees, immigrants, and members of society, as the Red Cross reminds me of, as well as the ASI and others in the review of this bill, and I take my heart. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u67	President. Thank you. A senator before the talk and rejoices that she discuss these matters calmly and carefully. Not everyone is trusting to do so. You're absolutely right. A senator that the bill in itself does not have much on it. Isn't that growing by two people in the United States and reorganizing immigrants'councils? But what gives us reason to discuss this matter in a larger context is the bill itself, i.e. The report, what it says about refugees and the prospective hospices, should offer the same terms as those especially invited by the so - called hostilists. It is the bill itself that gives reason to discuss this sect in much greater context than just the two institutions I was referring to. Of course, there are other reasons. There are the high numbers where we have six times the number of candidates here than in Norway and Denmark and the natural cost to this class and the natural change so obvious in the North countries, particularly under the leadership of non-unionists in Denmark. So I let myself ask, "Who's heading for it?" A senator? She spoke of a future policy. Can she, by no means, agree to Dana's policy that they themselves will come and that they will use the limited money available to seek the best of their means? They do this by helping people back home and finally through the global development work at the world scene of the World Bank and other fine institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. And, yes, I agree that these matters are the most difficult to discuss with moderation and calmness, not in the launching and noise. It's asked if I agree with the dance party's policy on the affairs of immigrants and refugees, and I just want to state that I'm not. I do not agree with their policies, but they have also taken steps that are completely out of harmony with the policy of other governments in the affairs of refugees and immigrants and have virtually not changed the course of the dance party that formerly existed in the government of this class, unfortunately. And that's too bad. I wish I had so much power to influence the Danish and Danish government, that I could think of her a change of mind and tell her she was completely lost. However, I have presented comments with Danish senators in the international work I have done, and I know as much as the Continent's president has done in 2018. The other question is, Mr. President, I'm kind of going to have to hear it again. I didn't quite get it and wait. A senator to repeat it in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have to stay in this asylum fast because there's, of course, a lot to talk about. A senator. What I asked about was: Is it absolutely impossible to support any of the goals of the Danish government? First, they decide who will come, that they will be able to provide limited funds more effectively, to help others by spending their money at home, or at home, and with the help of the application of the global development work. Then I want to draw attention to what. A senator of a new campaign that began in March, I believe, in Denmark. There they attack what they call Gheto, and the word "getto " came into Danish law in 2010. This word does not seem available to everyone, it has negative connections, and many of them have been talking about a ◯parallel Summit to which we can quickly call later communities, something like that. These documents, in Danish political arenas, make a deal between groups that are now under the direction of a pair of officers, that these figures should be destroyed by 2030 C.E., including subversive houses and other such. They say that in thesegettos, Danish values are unrecognized, especially women's freedoms and equality are respected by the sexes. It tells us in one sentence that what is sometimes called adjustment has resulted in serious failures. I just want to let me ask you what. A senator: Is she not concerned about this, and is this part of a government dance policy that it could describe as support? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur son of Ísleifsson for later answers. He is a Danish politicalist, and he aims for the government's dance skills in discussions about integration in a more extensive role given to refugees. But all right, I love discussing international politics. Yes, Guttoin in Denmark has been condemned widely. I just agree with that condemnation. The prejudicial efforts carried out in Denmark and have been utterly repugnant over the past few years. This has nothing to do with the human response to refugees and reminds us of the scariest period in European history and has virtually a reference to them. What are Danish values, I just ask them back, too? And what? A senator asks about the freedom of women in this context that is supposed to have been broken in the penitentiary. I am a feminist and, of course, protesting a violation of women's freedom wherever they happen, whether in Iceland or in Europe or anywhere in our neighboring countries or anywhere. Then you ask me why. A senator whether there is something in the policy of government dancing that I can agree with when it comes to the reception of immigrants and refugees. I haven't recently read their policy in detail, but the last time I went through it, there wasn't much I could fit in on that policy when it comes to the welcome of refugees and immigrants, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] But according to the response of the Danish government and their foreign policy, they must think and stop on the way they have been on, but they have been greatly different when it comes to European governments'policies on the affairs of immigrants and refugees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u71	A respectable president. We are here in the general sense of foreigners, especially matters involving refugees and refugees. I signed up for the key purpose of speaking in good enough or long enough, let's say, a speech or a speech. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson from yesterday and perhaps the answers just mentioned. I'm trying my best to understand the Middle Class lawsuits in a positive way, that they're doing good one thing. If I have a choice to understand their words so that they will do something bad or that they will do something good, then I will choose to assume that they will do well. The decision I have with the Central Party in this category may be because we have a different view of solutions in principle. Lately, yesterday and today, I've been wondering exactly what the problem is that the middle-class members constantly point out. And why should that be confusing? Why don't you just listen to the talks? I did, Mr. Honorable President, and I do so in general. Actually, I didn't hear a talk. The president of the party earlier, but I heard a talk. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, and the general interest in him when it comes to this case, I'll try it at least. But the reason why I find it difficult to listen to these talks simply to draw conclusions about what they are about to do is for me to feel that something is missing. There's something that doesn't hold up in the Middle Party's lawsuit on this matter. Perhaps it has something to do with what is sometimes complained about from that direction, perhaps from time to time, that they cannot express themselves, there are certain things that cannot be expressed in Icelandic society. It's not just this case, it's only in the Icelandic language in general, that's what I think, that there's a huge amount of silence on every side, and we all have a motive. It is of particular interest to me that regardless of the alienities, it is the same as anywhere else, and that would be the exception if it were not. In my conversation before what? Þórarinsson I was just trying to ask what the problem was. Hv. Councilmen mention figures such as these that last year we have approved a 631 takeover to Iceland, that the security system costs about 4 billion or 4.5 billion a year, somewhere in that time, I expect, of course, a very large amount. I expect it to be from these numbers that the account reads up to 6 million. K. on your head. Now tempted to go to that number just because 6 million per head per year may not be much money for a new member of the community, and I think it takes much more to get a new child to an adult, all the education, medical services, the care needed, the loss of parents, and the God knows what. But I know it's an investment. Clearly, the 4 billion people are not killing the United States. It's just a fact. In case of a moment. People disagree, because let's start talking about how strange and unusual it is to have billions of dollars on top of billions, I remember it was 6.5 billion last, which goes to the National Church in Iceland. A fine agency and all of that, but it's unusual to have a state church in the hands of a respectable president. Is the United States becoming overwhelmed by it? Hardly. So I don't find it convincing that it's the cost. Senators worry so much. Is that the mass? 631 people, 4,500 people were born in Iceland last year. Is that too much for the Icelandic system? No. 631 people, a respectable president, are simply not high numbers. We can handle that number very easily. If we just forget the 4 billion and pretend they were Polish, Greeks, Italians, French, or anyone else, some Europeans, nobody would complain that there were 630 immigrants a year. Or is it, Honorable President? Would that not be a cause for rejoicing? Is not the problem much more the fact that we're too few in Iceland? I think so. I don't think it's convincing that it's the mass, I don't find it convincing that it's the cost. Senators are worried. Do they worry about increasing unemployment or about the spread of welfare? A respectable president. They are like other immigrants and refugees. They're all kinds. We have a little bit about saying for ourselves what path people find when they come into a new society. I'll get to it later because I'm trying to find some point where I'm and what I'm doing. The members of the Central Party can unite in something. It's been hard for me, but I'm going into it a little later if I have time. Some day it was so impressive that foreigners were so remarkable that they could somehow dry out all their jobs and still just lie on the system and do nothing at the same time. That wisdom is reflected in the fact that no matter what a foreigner does, he really does not care. He is always either stealing his job or lying down on the welfare system according to a debate from the conservative view. The contradiction should be obvious. Could it be that the matter is not fear of overpopulation in Iceland, not that the Icelandic state would go to pieces because of these specified billions, not worry about the welfare and unemployment, but about the way these people are, what people are like, the people of the trustees? I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir Ólaabs Ólafur of Ísleifsson was yesterday's son, who referred much to dance men whom he highly admires these days and especially their foreign policy or speaks at all costs of it. There, he even spoke about it. about a plan I haven't read from top to to to toe, but I read an article, and I have the special privilege of reading Danish, beating, and learning Danish during the day, and read this article entitled 'Dennye ryedkamp' or a new policy of freedom. And then I suddenly became clear, a respectable president. It rhymes with the worry that went through a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun the son of Isun yesterday of a rift in society. There is no new word. It did not come about because Muslims would be prominent in the West. That wording is much older. It is, in fact, hundreds of years old, not about Muslims but about another religious group. I'll save you what? Councilmen taught about it, but it was the same speech; a foreign group of strange religion, hostile dogmas, and religious teachings that do not fit our community, a respectable president. That, at least, is what is totally shining through in this article. A senator mentioned here yesterday, provided that we are talking about the same phrase, in the article that I read about the social club of the Sociad Ecordra, called ◯Donny frishedamp. Now it is easy to point out that this involves a series of prejudices. It's obvious and easy. In case of a moment. Congress officials take offense at this, and they will just have to deal with their conscience. But I'm going to try to talk here in peace only as much as it can. You see, I'm totally concerned that democracies in society are getting worse. It's just that I'm more concerned that the right conservative forces contribute to that than the Muslims. Whether it is during the Danish or Hungarian or Polish or Greek, the Muslim is not in part tearing down liberal democracy, a respectable president. There are the right conservatives involved in this, and they are ruling in many parts of Europe. That's what worries me. There's something going on today. If this were a large group of wahabistasts--for those who do not know, the wahabism is a religious interpretation of Islam that controls the Saudi Arabia and the so - called Islamic state, or ISIS, as conservative religious theory as it can become. It's just about interpreting Islam, like the Múhameð Muhammad did--As-salama 'ala sllai in-naas--and it's a mean political philosophy, absolutely terrible. I'm going to say it here, though it might sound arrogant: There is no group in the General Assembly that is fighting as much against the decline of liberal democracy as the Pirantics. About a year ago, a religious group, tiny, in Iceland, would build a mosque. As a result, much and strong response in the community was proposed even to a national law on this subject. In fact, I'm on a council case designed to subtract this excitement by eliminating the ludicrous in law that rural communities are obliged to give land to religions. Well, that's another story. But it wasn't the Piratars who wanted them on the basis of faith, as is done in Saudi Arabia. They were conservatives who wanted to. There were conservatives who did not want to build mosque, but they were all right to build churches. So is Saudi Arabia. There are no churches to build, but mosk can be built. There is conservativeness, the local conservativeness that is Islam, not Christianity. When Iceland is spoken of as a Christian community, as it is spoken of in Saudi Arabia that it is an Islamic community, it makes me feel ridiculous, a respectable president. Society is not some type of religion. Society is a collection of individuals, and individuals can have different kinds of beliefs. No doubt, more things can agree on religious doctrine, but this does not mean that society is Christian or Islamic or godless. That's a ridiculous idea. And from where do we hear these things, that this religion, or this other religion, is a community? Saudi Arabia and the conservatives. It's not from Pirates, it's not from Social Ecstasy in Iceland, either. Or when it comes to having a special State religion that I find ridiculous, and where does the support of a special State religion come from? Saudi Arabia, conservatives, not Piranha. When it comes to removing some ridiculous law like the blasphemy that was here, 125th par. general penalties, the ludicrous regulations that we blessedly removed from the initiative of the one standing here, were not conservatives who wanted to distance it, they were conservatives who had their doubts that it was a good idea to remove it. It may be important to have blasphemy forbidden - like in Saudi Arabia. There's actually a death sentence there, perhaps not a fair comparison, but it's not the Piratars who want to adopt the government of Saudi Arabia, a respectable president. It's not Martyrs who come here and want to put on Islamic regimes or want to see the decline of liberal democracy or liberal democracy. That's what we're here to protect. That's what we're protecting against the conservatives. So if they want to stand up for liberal democracy: Welcome. Participate with us and stop calling for the fact that state and some church are intertwined. Stop talking about the community being this or the other religion. Just step into the present system of things and then lecture about our concern that foreign values are out of harmony with our liberal democracy. When it comes to women's rights, was it the Icelandic Christian conservatives who set them up? No, a respectable president. They are drawn for a long time, historically and today. Or when it comes to accepting sexual freedom, e.g. Gays, then, are not Christian conservatives who lead the bus. They are the ones who hold him back and have made history. Or accepting homosexual marriage. It is not Icelandic conservatives who have defended the right of homosexuals or other people, who have held back that trend. This trend in the pursuit of a better liberal democracies has taken place despite the efforts of the conservatives in Iceland, but not because of it. So when they warned that there would be foreign people who somehow could oppose our liberal democracies, they could first enter their own battles and begin fighting for their own liberal democracies. I reiterate that here I am applying what I heard in a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson, yesterday and in the article I read. I can hear the words, I hope I'm wrong. Maybe there'll be a reason. Senators in Pontta give me some other explanation, and we'll take that conversation. But I really have to mention, as inappropriate as I think it is, regarding Islamic doctrine in particular and religious identity in general, but especially Islam, that the person here has not only read some feminist ◯wioke-book blog to find out what the Islamic doctrine is or what the views of Muslim society are, but by talking to Muslims about Islam, politics, very many conversations, individuals and groups over a very long period of time. I got hung up on learning classical Arabic at the time, getting rather rusty now, but I have a real and very personal interest in religion, especially Islam and for years, and I know exactly what I'm talking about. I can reason with Muslims whether to cut off the hands of thieves or to see if there is any complete thought in the genetic code of Islamic doctrine. It doesn't, by the way, have a full bridge in it. But before I get into the conversation that I am quite ready to have with the conservative Muslims, I am more concerned that Christian, White, Western conservatives will succeed and reduce their resources, e.g. Women's freedoms are taking place in Poland. There are not radical Muslims doing it, there are Polish, Christian Poles. Of course, that does not mean that there is something wrong with being a Christian or a different religion. It's all good if people can at least know what they're fighting for, and if we're fighting for liberal democratic values, a respectable president, let them join in. But I think the conservatives will only have to reconsider where they're headed. Now I don't have much time left, a respectable president, but I'd like to mention one thing about religion and how communities develop. It is easy to take religious literature and find some scriptures in it and judge a group. We're not supposed to. It is possible to include the Bible, the New Testament, and show that women should not be taught. I know that the Church has some other explanation for this, no doubt very complex, but it was very long understood according to the original text so that women should not teach men because Eva was deceived by the snake, you remember, in Eden and all that stuff. It's in the New Testament Summit, just that it's clear. But the Bishop is still a woman. You see, it's possible, a respectable president. This is not so because we have formed some view of who the others or those values are in the Koran, or other writings, or in some religion in general, it would automatically consider political opinions. I'd say it's best true that here we are with a Christian State church, a majority of Icelanders at all, claiming to be Christian, and then there's no counting group in Iceland, but I don't know a single soul who really believe that women should not teach. Why is this such a respectable president? Because people are not religion. There is a difference between Islamic doctrine, which we might have something to check on, and I have a lot to check on, as well as the Muslims as individuals. Our fear of someone who is bad and who accepts other good values does not mean that we need to discriminate against people on the basis of religious convictions. We're not supposed to. That is why I refuse to consider these matters for us, except when it comes to some positive action that we can take, such as. Wellcome to Iceland, who was a project and hopefully is still on the Red Cross to introduce people to Icelandic culture, government, liberal democracy, and all that good stuff. We're supposed to promote it. In fact, I think it should be mandatory when it comes to providing asylum or refugee support. I'd think that's what. The members of the Central Party would agree with me on this. Then I'll find the final problem I hope to do. Senators can help me with, which is, when it comes to suggestions like the one we're discussing right now, they're against her. They are opposed to the means we need to use to help people adapt to Icelandic society. They cannot be liked, apparently to be, a respectable president. At least I'm very confused about it, and I hope so. The members of the Central Party can teach me something here, because I'm very confused about all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Listening to him is always very interesting, and he has interesting experiences. It is also especially true how he weaves religion into this particular bill. I'm not going to go to that discussion here, but I know why. Although a senator complains that religion is discussed from this platform, he enjoys discussing religion here. [[Up front.]] I have at least a few minutes. Hear what? A senator complains that this is a religion, but he often discussed it himself. But that's another story. What I wanted to do with it. A senator, I would like to stick to this bill: I've been discussing a little bit in my speech that I'd wanted to use the resources that are taking advantage of in another way. I've also pointed to it here and more than once that I think and I know this system is abused and they need to be prevented. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would agree with me that the abuse of this system is not part of the process. It's natural to keep people from coming here on false charges. I think we must agree on that. But I'd like to hear it from what. A senator would have considered how this system could be made more efficient, i.e. to reduce this abuse so that we can use our money better so that those who come here won't have to wait here for months. We know that even after two years in the country, family members, they are being expelled from the country, and they are naturally very bad. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some ideas. A senator in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u73	A respectable president. I just want to say that I'm discussing religion here because I see that they get a lot in the way of both this suit and the fact that we have a special national church in the constitution, but I'll let it go. I feel compelled to take that discussion and that we need to do so if they are to be part of our decision making. I can sense that this is the case as well as others. As to the other question, I thank you. A senator for mentioning it because I wanted to continue the conversation we had delayed about this, how best to deal with this problem that I think we agree on, i.e. That there's too much money going into this system. I think the obvious way is, given that you're happy with being here, that more people come in legally, and that it doesn't cost much money, making a living permit as such. Albanes or Georgians can use to be legal in this area without going through the security system. It doesn't seem to be very many Icelanders that there is no general license. Someone from Georgia can't move to Iceland today. There's no visa available. Period. Except, of course, if the person is an expert, such as a university education that was useful here, married an Icelander, and something like that. But a Georgian who comes here to work, pay taxes, to study Icelandic, to teach Icelandic books, to promote the reputation of Iceland and Icelandic culture around the world - that person is not welcome in Iceland today. These people, like in Georgia's case. A candidate mentioned in his earlier talk should be able to fit in with some resort we offer. We'll have to offer it up, and I think it's a good addition. There's probably some conditional, criminal records or whatever they want, but they have some kind of general living permit that doesn't depend on a particular situation, but on the fact that a person wants to come here and live here. [[The president calls.]] There are 500 million people plus this today, obviously all Europe, almost, and I don't see that it's the problem, is not that it's a problem to create such a living permit in a good way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator, this is an interesting discussion. Hv. A senator suggests that people from certain countries will only be allowed here to come and work, and so on. Now we are naturally dealing with a lot of unemployment, so it may not be appropriate for us at these times. But count 'em why. A senator that alone reduces the abuse of the system? We realize that those who are coming here on grounds that are not legitimate to get a home, or international protection, as some call it, are naturally being supported here from the state's fund. So it's not coming here on your own and trying to look for work, etc., it's getting pay from the state fund. It must be the attraction, huh? A senator, i.e. that you know that if you come to Iceland and say that you're persecuted in your own country - and I'm not gonna belittle the fact that there are many of them, but there are also cases where people come and carry things that aren't up to be true - you're gonna get into the system and get these money from the state fund. So it is the trust that the government fund is paying, and then it turns out that there was no basis for the person's being here and being exonerated. The cost has fallen from a government fund that I think we can use for better works, i.e. to help those who are in distress in war - torn areas, women and children and families, etc. It's been the input of my language when I'm asked to prevent the abuse of the system. I like it. A senator has not really had any ideas about how to stop this. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator realizes what I'm going to do. I don't think having a permit on my own doesn't mean stopping it or reducing the attraction of getting money from a government fund to take care of living, housing, etc. [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u75	A respectable president. It's a two-way thing. On the one hand, I think such a patent would reduce it, for example. that people from Georgia or people who are not in need in Albania or such countries come here and be allowed to do so. I heard why. A senator did not say so directly, but I felt that Witnesses in the background, hoping that they would not be unreasonable, that these people would both come here to lie down on the system and to take the job. That's a contradiction, a respectable president. People who come in here through the rest of the rest of the search for work can work and want to work and work and they don't need this help. Besides, there's the other thing I'd say we should do. We should be more positive about welcoming people, especially those who have been there in Europe before and who want to be here. For example, people have been reassigned to some land in which they were from abroad because a print was taken from them or something similar. But it was on the way down here or at least something other than that, and such denials cost money. This is the very essence of my speech in this, since I disagree. A member of the Parliament and the Central Group in general, i.e. That's the booth that costs money, that's the denials. When the Icelandic system decides to send someone to France, let's say, because it's expensive because that person will always be looking for his rights, he'll always need time, he'll always be costing money that we have to rely on humanity, on lawyers, on foreign affairs, and all this booth that's been built around it. We can reduce the pressure on this system simply by sending fewer people on the basis of the Order of Dublin, not always trying to resist, but simply by letting in more. It is in my opinion to reduce the pressure that comes from the applications that enter the rest of the search system, even if we offer another visa.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u76	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. Like what? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nest is always interesting to listen to. A senator. You're just trying to figure out why. A senator is leaving. He goes through many parts of the field. I might have this to ask you why. A senator: What do you think? A senator said that there is a great deal of money to be seen in this party in view of the great needs of the people living here? In every part of the community, this calls for more work and more to be done. What does it look like? A senator in that regard? And what does that mean? A senator that we can welcome many trustees each year? I'd like to mention that. A senator used the word immigrants. I have to say, I don't think it's an accurate wording here. Here people come to form from the European Economic Area, which has the right to allow them to move here and work here. Of course, these groups are not to be confused, huh? Senator. I encourage him to be a little more specific when discussing these matters. I wonder, Mr. President, and maybe it's such a thing. A senator is really not looking for any answers from us, e.g. When he speaks to us as members of the Central Party especially, I thank him for that, but it seems he knows all the answers. In a sense, there is. A member of the body of truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u77	A respectable president. I believe that the truth exists and that it can be examined. But enough for now. Then I may have accidentally used the word "aliens " somewhere in which I was supposed to tell those taking refuge. I'll just take it. During my talk, I was in a hot mood, and there may have been a verbal accident - or two or three or five. Hv. On the other hand, a senator asks, " How much money can I see in this group of painters?'Then I assume that he applies to the security system, and on the other hand, how many can be received. Of course, putting money into the system is not a question that can be answered on some scientific basis, it is always based on some valuable estimate. On the other hand, I think 4 billion in this security network is a major tool of money, where I agree with the Middle East, but it's not that it's going to blow the Icelandic system, neither government funds, nor economy, far from here. We have bigger amounts of money elsewhere, we have, for example. with a state church. I don't mention it because we should lay her down and put the money in this. I'm just pointing out that if people are concerned that 49.6 billion people in the United States or the economy are other problems where we can tackle that I don't hear so badly. Central Party senators want to tackle. The short answer is I don't know. But I know this isn't going to blow a government fund right now, and I believe that this number can be lowered very much by changing our system for the better. How many can we welcome? I must admit, a respectable president, that I would like, through the Commission and its institutions, somehow trying to find a formula that could lead us there. But I'll say, 631 isn't too much at all. They were born 4,500 Icelanders or Icelanders, at least last year. It's not too much. It just doesn't come too many tourists to Iceland. It's the system that's the problem. It's the booth as the problem. That's the cost of going to the booth that's a problem, a respectable president, not the masses that come here. And he could be quite much greater - I dare not mention the number, a respectable president, but I consider much more without the exception of a number of problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. What I want to say here is why. A senator - that's because I know why. A senator likes to have an open mind, and he wants to be a seeker, that's how I see what. A senator to me, and that's how he talks. Senator. One of the things I believe that we members of Congress have a duty to do is to monitor what happens in our environment to form in our neighboring countries. We strongly compare ourselves with the North countries. We have, for example. I have a lot of legal cooperation with the North countries, so I'll name just one example of our discussions at the National Assembly. The Denmark government speaks very clearly. This is a minority government that has been quoted by the prime minister, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, that she prefers not to see any inmates on the dance floor. They want to decide for themselves who will come to the country. They want to use limited funds to help people back home, thus helping many others whom I think I know why. A senator realizes very well, and uses the money in the course of development cooperation, including the U.S. on the scene of the World Bank and the rest of its institutions. Mr. President. I want to ask you why. A senator: When he is willing to put himself in position to learn from neighboring lands, learn from mistakes, and try to understand their concerns, including theirs. of their welfare system and of the community they believe is in grave danger?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u79	A respectable president. I feel that sometimes I've been talking about Pirata and myself and people from the same background in this group of languages, as if we've been admiring the system as it has been. It's not like that. Hv. paritaprevir In factBirgir Thorrinson's Þórarinsson said earlier this day the senators have run up to their hands and feet, and they refused to change anything, just to receive as many people as possible, and not care about expenses, etc. It's just not right, Mr. Honorable President. Surely we should learn from the mistakes of others. We just don't agree on what the mistake was. The fundamental differences in Europe in general were that national nations did not agree to receive people, and they went on separate sides, as the Middle Order's statement testifies, to close more and more. That's when the current goes somewhere else, and it's creating a lot of pressure on individual countries from time to time, like Sweden. The lesson we can learn is that we, in cooperation with other European countries, have to try to receive more people. That's the lesson. A respectable president. It's a long way to go there because it's happening the same thing, anyway, according to what's being heard from the Middle Class, and it's been happening in Europe, that it's been trying to squeeze and make it harder. It just doesn't solve the problem. This is not the solution. The problem won't go away. These people don't disappear. They stay there in one way or another. If they stay there illegally, they'll just stay there illegally. If it is forced to take action that is bad, it will be forced to take action that is bad. It is not a solution to the outside of the world and its problems. We have to deal with this. It can involve money and work, and it can be very difficult and complicated. At least we need to be clear where we're going to take this. I also agree with what we never get to talk about, and I find it so strange that we are discussing this matter with the opposition of the Middle Party because it is a key factor that people get to know the community they are moving into. That is regardless of whether it is a trustmaker or someone else. It's just that people understand the community they live in. And liberal democracies are unsatisfactory for my part. I expect people to follow them. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a conversation we can have. [[The president calls.]] But we can't get there. Even the middle tribe seems to be against it, as in this case, and it seems so strange to me. I'm trying to understand this correctly, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that's right, I'm looking and I'll keep on looking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u80	The president has tried to be patient with us in the use of the council. Yet, he will be reminded of members of a public assembly during the public speaking period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u81	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about imports here. Many factors have been produced, and in reality, they may not be so much better. We've been called all sorts of names and are actually used to it when we're doing a case that doesn't all agree on, and then the reasoning is not behind the names. This case alone is fine, and it's been done here. The mass centre at Isafjord wins, e.g. a good job. This is about increasing the number of employees and changing the order to the import board. To that end, there is nothing wrong with what we are asking: What is the message? What's the message to the big world? We have already noted how our neighboring nations are dealing with these matters, that has happened many times here, e.g. correspondent in Denmark, Norway, Sweden When we say so, are we asking, " Are we going to go the way that other North countries are turning off to drive us onto the same wall and then to fix things some other time? ' Or will we learn from the experience of our cousins? I was reviewing during the days that when I was a young man, who is not very long ago, we can say 40 years ago, my friends were wondering how they were going to spend the summer. We had just finished school, and some of us were going to work. Some of my friends had already found out that if they went to Denmark and enrolled in the country, they would be in social security, just like that. They went there two or three and got paid to come into the country, and they were just having fun all summer. It's not possible today in Denmark because it cost the State natural money and the meaning, anyway, it's pretty vague, except that you can come to the country and go to the social club and have fun. But somewhere, the money has to be taken. That memory came up when we were discussing it. In itself, I have nothing extraordinary about this to add, but I feel that, I have to say, I don't have fair that when we in my category -- which often are participant and often don't agree with many other categories of government, not with the government, and even if we don't have groups in the position of government - we often get our baptisms like racists and so on the streets. White, middle - aged, freckled men, that's one baptism. I'm just very proud to be a white middle-aged man, but that doesn't make me an incompetent man. I'm not really complaining about it. I just think a waste of time is the only reason people don't agree. People are coming here, as we've seen, along the way to the country. Here come immigrants to work, and much of them have helped build up society for the past few years. I don't know many people who don't like the fact that foreigners came to work. It was shown by a senator's talk that someone would say they would take a job from us. I'm not one of those who say so. I've been working with foreigners, and I've had foreigners working, and this is more and less of all decent people, just like the rest of us, the local people, if we can say so. It's just a different kind of sheep in a lot of money. Then there is the cryonics system, which was mentioned earlier in a talk that was introduced in a time by the government of Sigmundur, Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. That's a very careful system. Then there are those seeking refuge, who are often caught up in this discussion. We have called in the Middle East for a short review of their cases, to improve the effectiveness of the disposal of the trustees. We can say that many people did not get extremely well - laid and still had someone to deal with. I don't agree that what we've been talking about is not relevant, because we're just asking what message this case is about, and it's probably going to be a law soon. What's the message to the big world? This does not mean that these matters should be discussed with anyone, just not at all. I'd like to state that we're asking this question. We do not want the system we offer to be abused. Some competition for being the most successful people in the world cannot be won, by no means. We need to look closer. We need to be careful about financial matters. We need to be focused on what we're doing, and we're supposed to talk about things the way they are, not in some auction style, or who's the best and who's the most good, if I may say so. That's a race no one can win. Often, it is the truth about who manifests the greatest humanity, not necessarily what people give out, but how they work and what they do makes sense. It is possible to make elephant butts around it back and forth. But I say again what I said before, and is the main purpose of our being to put away that we are stifling a system that we don't know what the consequences are: what is the message?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u82	Mr. President. There are many interesting talks that have been given during this discussion today, and I come to my first visit. It is, of course, that all the laws that we perform here at the Council have some secondary effect. It's almost no matter what the bill we're referring to, some secondary effect is from this non-translation of the law text. But I don't know what to call it, I don't know what to call it, some layer of letter religion in these chemicals, and the senators rise up one by one, saying in a different way, "There's nothing to do about it, there's nothing to do with this, you're mistaken. This is not a matter of criticism. I give with all due respect. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who has come up in a talk and some answers. What causes it to slow down. A senator does not seem to grasp this context of the parts and the consequences of legislation on factors that are not written directly into the specific bill under discussion? I have to admit that I can't figure out what causes unless it was in the event that it was more convenient to say this. It is not entirely reasonable to reason on important matters, for it does not stand rationally to say that they are messages - and now may be right, before I continue, to say so in general that we should welcome the refugees we receive, to support them in conforming to the community as much as possible, and becoming active participants in it. But we are not supposed to form the system in a way that allows the flow of unfounded applications for international protection, as we have seen from time to time. By doing so, we are not only reducing our ability to support and help with the adjustment of those coming here, through the avenues of openness that have been achieved, but we are also directly dealing with public funds. If we want to use the money that costs unfounded applications, it is much better and more honest for us senators to say: Then let us try to use this money to do more for others. We do not do this by maintaining the present system where waiting games are played into the infinite and so forth. We know all those stories. I know why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson knows exactly what I'm referring to in this context. This creates an extreme waste, and I can say for myself: I don't think any human beings are being dismissed from a country that's been here for years. However, there is also a need to consider why that situation exists. Is this the case because of unfounded applications? Is that because there has been an effort to exploit all the problems in the system that are being used? Or is that the case for some objective reason? At any rate, the system as it is now includes an enormous waste and I think that we can do much better for those who are coming in here, to form through the cry-channel system, support in adaptation and so forth, but we are doing today if we are able to simplify the system, and make it more streamline-shaped, I think it's boring to use it in this context, but I hope this is understood, that those we're offering here and taking support with the advice we have but it're not going too fast. We know all about the dive that's going on here day in and day out. I'm sorry that most of the subjects that are familiar with the news have been brought about because they have become overly withdrawn from one country or another. Whatever the cause, it is so that all media coverages are lost. I think it would be much more interesting to see more of the news from the west of the shores that have been formed, whether it has been people who have come here to work, to do their jobs well, to become good and to have Icelandic citizens, or groups that have come through the cryonics or similar. There are not many reports of such groups, but there are many things that are going well. But somehow we're always fighting on these battlefields, which is not a pleasant word in this context, but we're somehow always in the debate to fight on the edge of which I doubt the common citizen would love all of this to be turned around. It matters what message we're sending out. In the history of the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, delivered on February 16, says, by permission of the president: ▪ In accordance with the government's treaties and the implementation of a government plan on the affairs of immigrants, a concerted welcome of refugees, regardless of whether they come on their own roads, through international protection, or human-general warrants, or by the concerted welcome of refugees. I believe that if we send them a message that these are the new criteria in Iceland it will cause a significant increase in trust and will request international protection. And when we look at the numbers, it is in the official evidence that the number of applications in this country is based on the appeal number many times that we see in our neighboring countries. I think the population is six times the country, I just have the latest numbers I've seen in my mind, considering what's in Norway. We can see how the situation is developing in Denmark and elsewhere in our controlled countries. I just can't stress that it's all about the message, the bill that's accepted that affects certain factors has secondary effects. As a result, Iceland is becoming more desirable in this context. This effect is seen in an increase in the number of applications. That's all there is to it. As one day it was said: These good people are probably not coming out here because of the weather, even if it's good today. It just can't be. There's something else. Of course, those who bring unfounded applications are aware of this when they make the journey. Iceland isn't the first stop. There is something in the regular work here that makes the number of candidates for international protection in Iceland a shocking six times compared to what is in Norway and its share is higher here than anywhere else in the North countries, including Sweden. I don't have these numbers here with me, I just remember the number compared to Norway, but there's something that's causing this. Surprisingly, in this discussion, the idea that a bill like this has no secondary consequences. Of course, it is surprising to see in Article 6 of the report what the bill's cost estimates look like. Its view is as narrow as possible. I'm looking so narrow that I can't believe anyone ever gave up that text without being ashamed of it. Of course, the secondary effects are evident. Consider, for example, Denmark. The prime minister of Danmerkur, Mette Frederiksen, has said that she sees that there will be no applications for international protection that will come to Denmark, there will be people through the formal system. I don't know what they call it, but that's the system we'd call the cryin' cryonics here at home. This is not unusual, and even advertising is published in foreign media, social medias, I suppose, since lines are laid on the fact that neither the entrance is simple nor that this will be a mere dance on roses after entering. In fact, it has even been so far that valuables would be confiscated to cover the costs of unfounded applications. This is not a hard approach. That is why I wondered: " What is it that in Iceland, when our neighbors seem to be facing the impression that decisions have secondary effects, there seem to be a number of causes. Senators don't see it. I see what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson here in the hall, with deep thoughts. I noticed that he wanted to respond. Of course, although I am in no position to demand answers, it is interesting because I know that it is. A senator will have time to do so. A senator would briefly enter into what should explain that this message, which is obviously included in the bill, does not seem to have a similar effect here in Iceland as other northern countries. Of course, it would be nothing to send these messages from Danish and Norwegian governments if the people in that country did not feel that they would have an impact on their application for international protection. I reiterate that I have no right to call for such views, but because I have faith that the senator has the time to bring this into his counter-reguage, it would be interesting just for the discussion. I couldn't see that a senator was on the rosary when I went to a piano, I could listen to a speech at any rate. A senator but not in the room. To this end, it is absolutely true that such a thing, when so narrow as to look at it, takes first to three factors, as shown in the debate of the Supreme Court. Minister. First, in order to allow the Department of Social Affairs to negotiate with reception companies for increased assistance and service to refugees who include in appointing a speech manager who is responsible for securing a partnership in a service based on an individual plan. Second, increasing the role and education of community education and Icelandic education for refugees, providing advice on education and employment, as well as help with job search and other activities. And third, there's a bigger role for Polymorality to link refugees and welcome groups who have made a deal with the Ministry of Social Affairs. These are all excellent promises, but I believe that these groups of individuals that come under these umbrellas we should invite here to the country through the naval system where people are able to keep their arms tight, we'll have time to accept it. We are to welcome those we receive. All the news, whatever the storage site is, if we use it as a boring term, is of individuals who are setting up their own roads and equipment about the rightness of their application. There has been an excellent work at the National Park in Isafjörður. Now the work station is being extended and added, which is the best. I spoke to her when that decision was made and strongly stressed that her main work center would remain since she had been a member of the Institute of Polyhumanity, i.e. in Iceland, the nuclear activity would remain there. Such legislation is likely to take on the main weight of the increase in size one or another. As noted in these three main objectives, this is one or another a concern that rural society takes on greater responsibility and in much more ways than this has caused problems so far. There is no need to delve into how far these treaties have been, and rural communities have considered them to be financial support and other factors. In the talk of the Supreme Court. According to the minister, first, the Ministry of Social Affairs negotiates with reception groups for increased assistance and service to refugees. In this context, the types of service agreements that have been made - I remember at the moment of a contract with Smokejanestown, Hafnarfjördur, and Reykjavík. There may be others. If it is the understanding of members of Congress that they have walked in the way that their communities hoped, when they cooperated, it is obvious that they are not. I think we should first try to get the issues involved in the cryonics in a good stand and do it well, accept the people we receive, but do not rush into prison. The fact is, we cannot do everything for everyone. [[The president calls.]] But this increase in magnitude and this secondary effect from the proposed bill should be evident to everyone. Otherwise, you just refuse to face the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u83	A respectable president. Hv. A senator stole my question. He asked me right here in a talk, and I'm going to answer him. But my answer is a question, very quick question. Hv. You can see that a senator asked what in this bill would not fall to give it a message, such as. Denmark is sending and trying to prevent the arrival of the country from being desirable, if I understood a question at that time. A senator's right. That's exactly what I wanted to ask: What on earth in this bill is why. A senator's being extremely deceptive to the trustees? I just can't see. I've been over the bill materially, and these are four articles, i.e. if we include an article that says the law will gain value. Otherwise, it's three articles. This is quick read: 1 gr. it's about disposing of information for companies and other things. 2.g. deals with the granting of professional counsel and counselling by the joint welcome of refugees, etc. A respectable president. Is it so that a contortortor, tell about Georgia, which for some reason people don't want to get here, read these laws, and think, "Hum, this is a fascinating country, a professional guidance from this great country?" Or could it be that people can learn Icelandic or get guidance on how to look for work or get settled, something like that? What is it in this bill in a broad or narrow sense? A senator believes in making Iceland particularly deceptive? This bill is all about making it easier for people to adapt to Icelandic society. Then comes the other question I wanted to ask. A senator, simply: Does he mean that we do our part to make it easier for people to adapt to Icelandic society? Because that's all this bill is about. That's all this uniform assembly of refugees is about that. If it's too deceptive to put it in law, it tells itself that it's too deceptive to help people adapt to Icelandic society. I feel like it's on and at the same time at what it's supposed to be. A senator, but I expect him to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. So I'm going to take it straight out of the top story talk. Minister, because I don't have the bill text with me, I'll take it below, then says here, by Mr. President's permission, and this is the answer to the question, i.e. what I believe is that, as a result, applying for international protection in Iceland on this bill is more desirable than the current situation says, by permission of the President: ▪... has been working on a concerted reception of refugees, regardless of whether they come on their own roads, through international protection or human-sufficiency license, or by the concerted welcome of refugees. I think if we watch a lot of applications for international protection today we'll see that this is not the same. There are limited rights that individuals enjoy today that come on their own terms, e.g. Rather than the people who fall under the armament system. We agree on that, me and what. Senator, I'll give myself up. So this bill has agreed, regardless of whether it comes on its own, through international protection, or through humanitarian grounds, or through the uniform welcome of refugees, it will have been introduced. The groups that come on their own will then enjoy the rights that are available to the wounded today. And that's why I believe the motivation and demand, the demand number of applications will be greater than that bill approved. I hope I answered that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u85	A respectable president. See, I understand that part. What I don't understand is, how to create an adjustment process of any kind without causing the problem. A senator afraid? Because it's an adjustment device. This is to help people get into society and e.g. Find a suitable job, to pay taxes and to learn English to enter society and learn the system to know their rights and duties. If this bill can't become law because it'll be too deceptive to the trustees, what should we do to help people who get refuge here, the 631 we agreed on last year? What should we do to help them to adapt to Icelandic society, to learn and to work, to have a good social life, to be a country and a country for their good? What should we do if not this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. The answer is that I think we should focus on getting a good grip on and possibly expanding, even though I'm not ready to mention a number, the greeting system, this global cooperation we're in. I believe that this is the most promising way to support just that those who come here in one way or another in search of a better life, regardless of the cause, and come through that system, will improve rapidly and effectively. As I said earlier, for example, there has been an amazing job at the Métropolis site at the moment. The answer to the question is, I think we're going to put the emphasis all on the armamentist system, but we're looking towards it, as we've talked about a few times today, e.g. In Denmark, for example, what the soci order is to do, to help people near their homes, and thus to help far more people than ever is possible in Denmark. So I think we should watch to help people in their own territory, and then to be more supportive of the pedimentary system, and then to have that channel as a complete course for those who come here to the country, thus increasing the likelihood of adjusting, whether we're talking about Icelandic education or getting a steady job and becoming taxpayers there, they're going through that system. That's my opinion in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u87	V.E.G. President. I come up mostly in the symposium because of it. The members of the Central Party missed an independent man. I understand the blame, and I don't want the media to suffer from distress, so I'm here on the platform. I've listened a lot to these talks, perhaps mainly because I was stuck in the chair here behind. Of course, it goes out in many parts of the world, not to mention the bill itself, and yet, the bill turns to the restitution system, and in itself it is very normal that a serious discussion about the restitution system is taken. I don't make any remarks about that. I think it's good for us to take this discussion. She's been shut up a little while with her whistles on it. There must be no suggestion even to improve the system and speed it out; there will be some sort of approach to such matters in a peculiar struggle to keep the system unchanged. The problem is, and that's the big problem we're supposed to have, that the rest of the security system is totally broken. It's out of control. It's completely out of control. It has become so that anyone can ride on a plane to Iceland looking for protection, which may take years to complete, knowing that a person does not meet the law's requirements for protection. For many, it is not a matter of choice that Icelandic taxpayers pay it as if it were nothing, on the basis of some kind of humanity or something. We're on a very dangerous path there. For good reason, the left government in Denmark has these rules and says: "We can't have this system. There is a reason, not because the dances of the left men do not have the same humanity as the men of the United States. There's some other reason. They simply see that they have lost control of their lives long ago, and the pleasure of continuing the same things will not go away, and they will not be able to cope with it, and it will damage a Danish society. If we keep this unchanged, out of control, all built on the end of some well-founded government official decision, and we alone may be in it, we'll never be able to handle it. What's the message out into the world? Just come here. It could change from a few hundred a month to a few thousand like a hand being waved. And what will they do? The system does not assume it will all go to the same channel. We can't go on like this, no matter what we want to be. It's not possible. But that is not to say that we do not accept refugees. I am absolutely determined that regardless of how much we do, we must fulfill our obligation to solve the refugee problem. We need to receive a certain number of people. I myself would like to increase the possibility of non-EU foreigners to come to work here. But I'm sure they'll say I'm against foreigners. Far from it. I want to clear up the possibility of foreigners to come to work here. But I'm not going to create an uncontrolled system and help anyone who's trying to make a fortune, I understand them perfectly, can come here for a few years at the cost of Icelandic taxpayers knowing that they'll probably get no after two years. Will American politicians just watch it stay this way because we're so good? That's not possible. But do we fulfill our obligation because of the refugee problem? When the alien law was passed here in 2016, I was at a council. I was in the government. It was a parapolitic work. In my experience, when bills are made transverse, they're definitely not good. I didn't accept this bill. I warned you not to. I simply said: Here is an open box that we will eventually never handle or that we have no options in a law that can handle. Then one day. And instead of trying to get some kind of control over these things and have some direction in this, it's just a bill about making sure that those who come here from Europe get the same service and rights as those we're taking in as peddlers. We can't help it. In the end, we have to go the way Danir did, whether we like it or not. And why would the Norwegian do that and Sweden? It's now the world's greatest humanity. It's been a long time. But nobody's gonna top Icelandic left man in humanity. No, we're in such an oddly quiet environment, a strange political vindication, that we're making this happen. A few senators have mentioned the cost, 4 billion. Of course, it's much more than that. The health system, the justice system, the social security system, etc., is much closer to 10 billion to 4 billion. If this is going to be out of control, like this is now a little bit out of control, then it's out of control. But governments cannot respond because the laws are what they are. We must have the strength to develop a bond and control. We can do this through the refugee system. Then we will accept as we can, and there are truly refugees, and we will decide for ourselves who will come. That's what it's supposed to be. But this discussion will never take place on how to cope with this problem. Either you're just against foreigners or you're being racist or somehow, and the discussion is off the board. But we have responsibility. We are the kin to care for the interests of this nation. We are not the kin to care for the world's interests, but we are part of the world, and we have certain obligations, and I want to fulfill them. It doesn't stand on me as it does. But we, Icelandic politicians, have to do something and deal with it. Why is it so that those who come here from a plane and we know they're not even from the countries they can be counted refugees from, we know, can come? In the hospice search system, because we have this system, you can just get on the plane and come on up. And who is using this system? When we have a system like this, it's easy for an international crime circle to make it to the country. They can't get through the refugee system. They come through like this. I'm not saying that most people who act like this are probably the same, and most likely the longest, maybe just a fraction, but, nevertheless, this kind of security system is a problem, whether we like it or not. Because of me, if we can handle it, we can add a host to it, we can have more. I want more foreigners who are qualified, even though they're not in the EEA, that's not my problem. Somewhere I heard that there were a six - fold more people who came here as refugees, who come here from a plane from some city in Europe. Then there's talk here, and there's always enough here. It's not just a matter of the money that goes straight into this, it's a question about society's infrastructure and other problems that will follow if this is out of control, which it has become. I have to say the same thing: I have no faith that Icelandic politicians will deal with this rather than with other problems. They will never do that because they are always telling the world how good they are and how bad we conservatives are. This is linked to some form of liberality. It has nothing to do with liberality that anyone can fit into the cost of all of us. You may be able to call it liberal if they came at their own expense and could only be here, dot. No, it's politics. It's supposed to be no border. I can accept that politics if they say, "Yes, okay, no borders." At the same time, there is no welfare system maintained by taxpayers. Then it's just that everything is open and who's gonna be okay if you're not having any borders and everybody's gonna want to be here. All right. So it's some politics we can reason with. But we cannot offer this nation out of control in this future. We've got to get it together. I hope I get the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech could be heard as a sewing needle fell into the chamber while speaking his case. But I'd also like to thank him for accepting the challenge and coming here as a representative of the Independence Party, for this discussion has been completely lacking. But then I have to ask myself, " Is it? ' A senator of normal independence, in view of the new Independence Party? This matter has largely been discussed. Martyrs and thus have it in common with, e.g. the government's bill on the vindication of drugs is to be supported primarily from a different direction. So one would wonder, " How is it possible for the government to file a case repeatedly?'I would say, as a member of Porta's council, that he was so proud to have made it through at the next World Congress of that congregation. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, perhaps. Just the exception to prove the rule? We have to do something. We have to do something. We've got to do it. We've got to do it, we've got to do it, we've got to do it, we've got to do it. A senator - I truly agree with him - and was referring to these matters. He had doubts that this would be so, and he added that we could no longer offer the Icelandic nation a lack of confidence in such matters. But what will the Independence Party do? Will he be effective in this case or will they move into the room carefully and press the green button with the left green, the Pirates, the woodfowl, and so on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u89	President. Hv. A senator asked if I was a normal independent person. The most common question I get is, are you normal? I think I'm very normal at the foundation, and especially normal independent. What will the Independence Party do? I just can't answer that. Senator. The minister of the Independence Party has now tried to get primes through to speed up a bit of these cases, make this system more efficient, but always landed the Independence Party on the wall and has always done it because it is simply that a greater proportion of the council is with such humanity and considers all progresses and attempts to improve the system are foreign missions. Then we'll never make it, unfortunately, why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. It's always a hot potato. Of course, this is difficult. I understand that. But if anyone wants to try, for example. To take out the sheltering system in the way we are now and say that we just take it through the refugee system, everyone will rise on the hind legs. It's just a lack of humanity, humanity, that you're just mean to foreigners. I'm not mean at all to foreigners. I think they're absolutely great, to be honest, and very useful to Icelandic society. That's not what it's about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u90	Mr. President. It is certainly safe to agree that the majority of foreigners, almost all, are good people, as people are common. But we are familiar with the discussion. A senator comes in, these attempts to use some form of overemphasis, even their own name, or their declared goals, to fuel support and then attack anyone who may criticize the real content. This is simply a real problem for democracy these days, especially in Western and modern times. Here. Another factor that adds up is how this system works. In this matter, we, for example, are involved. Tell them it's way too early to talk about the big picture. Although the report does describe what exists, we must not talk about the bigger picture, not immediately, it is just for someone else to discuss it. But then we know how the system works, it's not a reason. Senator? And now I ask you, Haven't we seen it so often before? We're repeatedly told not to discuss the matter yet, and when it comes to talking about it, you think you can finally talk about it, it's too late to talk about it, you would have had to talk about it at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u91	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's just the reality we're facing. But I'm very happy, for we can only use this opportunity to discuss the matter in general, the security system. I'm not afraid of being yelled at. Some will probably do so after this talk, yelling at me in the media somewhere. I'm here to protect the interests of my clients. I want to live up to Iceland's duties, but I don't want anything out of control. We've lost control. Other countries lost control, and how did left men in that country react? One day, we'll have to do this. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armorer of the son of Níelsson for his speech, and the board for his own position in this matter. Then we're talking about the rest of the search system and in other contexts, as this bill gives us natural reasons for doing this. I, by permission of the president, allow me to give a public talk. Minister of Justice in a discussion on the budget of the 25th March of the past. That's when she asks for it. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson into the money that goes to this party we're dealing with now, the security system, and all of it. By permission of the President, the highest. Minister: It is a bit unpredictable and difficult to plan ahead for how many are looking for international protection here. It has been decided to finance in real-time expenses instead of overinvestment of budgets. This means that there are only items that are collected, money as necessary. This means in the speech of an open bank of the state's funds. This is one of the main majestys of the Independence Party here. What is the course of the party in these matters? In a second answer, I will discuss that in the same talk, the highest voice was given. The Minister of Justice not only opens the bank of the state's funds but, rather, an open border, each Pirati or the Conspiracy, and so many others here, may be satisfied with it. [[The president calls.]] I ask: What is the difference between the Independence Party in these topics and the fine categories I mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u93	V.E.G. President. There were only 2016 transpolitian laws to establish this system that is now. Of course, in the trust - seeking system, it means that the bundle is open because the law is what it is. There's no stopping in the law. If there's 20,000 people, then you've got to turn them both off, I'm not talking about if it's 30,000 or 40,000. The law doesn't expect any stoppingrs. That's why I didn't accept the law at the time, because I imagined it could be out of control. It's just opening a pandobox that could get out of control. That's why I'm very French at anything that's interpolitic. There is a check for bad bills and bad legislation because there are patches being made here and there. The objective, of course, is to welcome refugees, those who are painfully bound and have no other place because there is war or some particular situation. It's nothing about the behavioral system unless it's a total fracture. That's different. That's why they're making this decision: This security system is completely out of control, it's out of control, it's just a snack, and we're not gonna be able to handle it, and we're just giving the wrong message around the world. Now we're the only ones left in Scandinavia who're sending the wrong message, so we'll probably have to buy out extra credits for next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It is clear, then, that the Independence Party is, for example, an independent party. have been here for the past few years, responsible for financial funds without lifting a little finger to put it under this flag. Without lifting a little finger. I'm going to refer, with the permission of the president, to the talk of the Supreme Court. The minister of justice, in which she managed in two minutes to describe the policy that this is an open branch of the state's funds, as a matter of course. A senator has now confirmed. Then, with permission of the president, she describes an open border: But, of course, we need to be absolutely clear that those who are looking for international protection and who are entitled to it [...] - I get out of a few words - ▪ Will receive international protection if they meet that requirement, no matter how many there are. I repeat the last words, no matter how many. The Justice Minister of Independence Party describes it for members and nations and for the world around us who hear what is said in these matters, that there is a wide range of borders here. And I ask, What is the policy of the Independence Party? Those who assume that there is some minimal control of these matters, minimum government of state and minimum government here on the border, what exactly are they choosing by paying an independent party vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u95	V.E.G. President. I can say what. A senator is given very much to vote for the independence party in general. But I must admit, the Independence Party has not been able to deal with this problem and has had no courage or courage to do so. Nor has he had the strength to do so. [[Up front.]] I suspect that, yes, it's my feeling. But there is a great willingness to handle this problem and to do it with some decent person, not to do it out of control, uncontrollable, and to have automatic taps because we cannot offer it to people in the long run. It's just reality and I face reality. No matter how good I want to be. I think I'm really good, but not everybody does. I've told you before, I don't think Icelandic politicians are going to handle this until it's all over again. In Icelandic politics the policy has been to have no policy and hope for the best. That's the result. We don't have a course, but we just hope that the best and the better is not all over again, so we'd rather just ask for the cutters to be protected and hope that the system will handle this, etc. English politics is in harmony, not just in this group of languages.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. Hv. A senator wrote a few words about the law, the alien law so called since 2016, how it had been carried out, and how they had doubts about that paradox approach. I have to admit that I'm a special amateur to analyze these cross-cutting exercises that seem to progress on the terms of an elected period in which ministers seem to be a means of muleing the opposition, the opponents, or the skeptics. I personally took up the statement from a parapolitic committee that gave a report on a so - called Highland National Park that I must admit that I think it is both premature and unwise to try to drive through now and the point of the matter that I believe that it will be a reason for the end of the day, at least for a predictable future. As a result of a discussion about the 2016 Law - and I looked it up, I had just forgotten it - there were two current members, however. paritaprevir Brurts the Brynjar of Níelsson, and whisk. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who did not vote with that law. But what the law thinks is why. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's most urgent change needed to be done in a full reexamination or to form a prime minister of justice, now available for adequate application of the materials, as considered. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u97	V.E.G. President. Of course not all that was bad in those laws, of course not. The thing that may have disturbed me most is, first of all, that we have given the economists in these matters to unsupervised people, to the decision - making committees. We have a very ecstatic view of the reasons for humanity. It is the political power that should appreciate it in my mind, not the founding people in a town as I call it. Of course, a foreign agency will begin by making a decision based on the law. Then I think it's most reasonable that there's a complaint against a minister, that a minister has absolute authority, as the Constitution assumes. The Constitution is completely forgotten when it comes to this. The problem with the law is, of course, that the security system is just that anyone can come. It will have certain treatments that we know about. It is very difficult to find out if the right person is involved. It's so complicated to know all about background, etc. Someone might say, "You're from Frankfurt, just stay there until we take the request and we go over the case. " Why are you supposed to be here? That's one thought. We can't take all of this. We can't help it. We need to go over the law as a whole in my knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Without a doubt, it is the task for us to reexamine these topics. I want to thank you. A member in particular for bringing in earlier that we must allow ourselves to take the discussion of the security element in a larger context rather than the narrow views that were presented in this matter. Criticism, which may have occurred most in the Central Party Parliament today, has been because of the wider context and the secondary factors involved. In this context, there was a problem. A senator admitted that there was a chance that he would eventually handle the discussion, so it would be politically acceptable to discuss these matters when it was really too late. I wonder, if I understood a word. Is it true that the senator was a representative of this parapolitic committee? [[Up front.]] Now that I'm sorry, I misunderstood. The question is, who thinks so? A senator of the most likely ways to get this discussion to the surface? We can only see the odd debate of the committee writer in this case yesterday, where in the history of a committee party, there was a mollusk of Rasism and such. This underscores how difficult it is to get this discussion in some balancered mood so that you can go through it so that you can get some good out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u99	I have no faith in the wisdom to bring up this discussion, at least. not the situation now. I was not on the transverse committee at the time, but I am now on a committee that no one really knows what is doing. I don't know either. I don't believe that we can get some serious talk about this because she always goes to these graves right away. We have a certain political ide that it should only be open to anyone - as it were to be heard in the talks of some senators today, mostly two - it's just a huge profit of it. But then they'll agree with me that the security system needs to be eliminated. Then it's just anyone who's here. Then you have to deal with the problem. He won't be smaller. If people think it's a big fortune that anyone can come and we have nothing to say about it, I think we're in trouble. Of course, we are to control those who come into our community, but we should not reject someone because he is a foreigner. I'm not. We're supposed to have a wide variety of communities in the sense that here are people who will use this community. But the discussion will go somewhere else, I know it, she always will. At least now there's a small opportunity to help. Maybe you're going to get extreme. I've had so many stamps on me that I'm becoming resistant. I'll just take this on the box like everybody else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u100	Mr. President. Before I pick up the recent thread in my second talk, I would like to express my appreciation for it. paritaprevir Brynjar, the son of Níelsson, for an outstanding talk, would like to mention only a point on which he came, i.e. The 2016 foreign law. I had planned to discuss this matter later in this discussion, but now it is good to mention it directly. This was not enough to be a parapolitic job - and I agree with it. A senator that it is always a concern when a matter is presented primarily in that way, not of the content, but of the preeminent Minister of Justice of the Independence Party, in fact, a member of the government opposition to lead the work. The work was done more and less, I think, on the basis of the government stand. In view of the situation I was in then, I was very upset about it and often talked to the minister and tried to wind up this job, but I was always told that I should just see, something good would come out of this. And then, naturally, nothing good came out of it. I can claim that I had never let this case out of government, never, and never supported it. I didn't support it. What I am thinking, however, is the result of a discussion about this and a good answer. paritaprevir Empresses, Brynjar of Níelsson, discussing the failures of the Icelandic politicians in these matters, which is certainly true in all categories except one in which so many other things seem to stand out now in regard to these new world politics that trove everything, which I felt was being overly optimistic at the moment. Senator. Of course, there should always be positive optimism. I know why. A senator may not be famous for it, but he is always somewhere down there, and now only surfaced when he thought that the independent party had a deep desire to change these matters. He just wouldn't have chosen the right team of cooperation and couldn't get things through, etc. But if so, I would deny that many of these matters are carried on by the independent party and its members or stewards, such as the case. paritaprevir Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson mentioned earlier. And it's not just in these matters. It is in many of these New Age politics that the Independence Party seems to be trying to prove itself in the contest to the longest level in these matters, in some cases even becoming leading, the new Independence Party, the newborn. In certain areas, the renewal has become leading in the New Age politics. That's why I'm just going to tell you what I'm gonna say. A senator and his hope that this desire will still linger at the bottom of the Independence Party: Let's see how this situation works. I notice that there's no more punching. The members of the Party prefer to express themselves on this, but not so. paritaprevir Doves of Níelsson's son, and I thank him for coming here during the discussion as always, and for giving a wonderful speech. Then again, from my first speech, it comes only to what we are discussing now, how people approach such a matter. What attracted my special attention, one of them, in the frank speech of the speaker of the case, well. paritaprevir Chard Sigronjan's Kristjánsdóttir, was saying that the senator felt that the matter would be of no use to those who oppose it in elections. The reason for this was my special attention is that I have heard it a few times before, especially from the Prosecutors'members in this and, in fact, other matters too. They'll come up here and say, if someone is contradicting something they say, it's not going to be good for you in a following or in elections. It may not be so surprising, since this class has become completely separate from anything but to try to save itself at the next election. They do not think that some might have opinions on matters because they really believe in them because they believe that something is important and that their policy is important. No, if anyone objects, they are merely wondering if this one or this one is useful in elections, for it seems to be the only thing to do with them right now. Now I've only named the Independence Party, or the Neon and New or Old Progress Party, depending on how it is viewed, and it's only natural to continue this political diagnosis on this matter. I'd like to mention a little speech, please. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir. That was an excellent talk in many ways. A senator made the matter more challenging than many other supporters. A senator is a great advocate of this matter. I'd like to add that to what you're doing. A senator tried to look at the bigger picture, but he agreed to support the case with claims such as that it was, with permission of the Supreme Court. President, more of a man than any other reason that we're putting our arms around this group of humanitarians, more humane. So there is the evidence that this matter is to be supported, that it is a general wish that we embrace this group of humanitarian and more humanitarian people. This made me feel a little more clear to the discussion, some of these words are flaunted like humanity. But it is humane to have a system that is actually designed to encourage people to go on a dangerous mission, often on the roads of dangerous criminal organizations that can take all their resources away from people, to put them in grave danger, instead of creating an arrangement that encourages people to use the legal means, the safe ways, through e.g. cooperation with the United Nations and the armamentist system? That is what the Danish government is doing, and Danish allies have preached and, in fact, called humanitarianism, especially as a result of what I was describing. In the case of Danish proselytism, this is a far more valid issue, for it works out to protect their community, as well as to prevent crime groups from using Denmark to put people in grave danger and taking care of it all. It's humane. Reaching the most human spirit can at times be complicated, but if you allow yourself to think things out, you can maximise the assistance we can provide to those who need the most help. Mr. President. Because I fell into this political analysis of this case, I have not been able to proceed with the thread I had started with, so I may need to discuss the matter a little further. But I restate on the continuation of this discussion, the discussion of such important matters and the importance of people's life and health and the future of society, that it must be based on facts, reasoning, and even a little rationalism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u101	V.E.G. President. I just want to ask the same question I was asked earlier, "What is the policy of the Central Party?" What does the Central Party think it needs to do? Does the law need to be changed? Do you need a full review? What are we gonna do? Should we just hope for the best? This is the key question. I wondered, " What does the middle class see to it that we can do? ' Do we have to do something now? Is there anything that calls for action now? How do people picture the change? Is it possible for people to agree that the security system is over and that we should just protect those who come through our refugee system, which is part of our worldwide work, and do our responsibilities there? What, then, do we need to make changes in the law? Is it more than the soul - searching system, or is there any other factors that are urgent, etc.? Perhaps the Central Party's policy is as vague as the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u102	Mr. President. Now I know what to do. A senator is keeping an eye on the politics. I suppose these questions have occurred primarily in order to give me the opportunity to reiterate them. A senator may know much about him. The middle class has taken considerable advantage of these matters and has not only criticized but also pointed out how things could be done better and put forth a matter of Congress. In this discussion, we have especially cited examples, experiences from other nations, northern nations, and what lessons can we learn from them, pointing out what they themselves have learned, and what we can benefit from that experience. Besides, I can say the word "what." A senator from his earlier speech that the alien law is actually in vain. Hv. A senator asks: Do you need a complete review? Yes, they really need a review. I don't know what comes out of the Review Committee already. Senator. I don't know how optimistic he is about those things, but I doubt, without any intention of saying anything. A senator or others on this committee, that the committee will solve the matter because they lack political leadership. There is no need for political leadership in this group. A senator has established his talks. Icelandic politicians are generally unsatisfactory in this category, even afraid, more or less, except for what. A senator and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u103	President. Yeah, I'm definitely getting close to the Central Party. Hv. A senator speaks of these committees and political leadership. I personally believe that such a committee has no value unless there is a political leadership that has some way of saying, "We're gonna control it, we're gonna control who comes in here, etc. ' This kind of name is that my mind knows nothing else. The committee could then determine how to do the job, fulfill our commitments, etc. That's the key to this kind of work. I agree with what. paritaprevir Sadly, Davíð Gunnlaugsson was not a real political leader. It's easier to push a committee, preferably interpolitic, and tell her to do something. But nothing's gonna come out of it. You're absolutely right. Senator. We need political leadership in this regard, in which humans are in control of these things, insure that we are committed to our commitment, ensure that we take good, so that, against the people who are protected or able to qualify as refugees, we do well. That's the point, of course, and I'm asking why. A senator would not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u104	Mr. President. I certainly agree with that. In general, I think it was agreed that in Iceland, not long ago, that we should receive as many as we could, but also help people in the refugee camps and near the areas where people are fleeing, because the experience has shown it, and I know it only by personal experience after visiting a refugee camp a few times, that most people want to return home. On the other hand, in many places there is great lack of support because politicians prefer to show that they are doing something by making it appear in their own environment, thus neglecting all too often what is happening and being able to do much more, in the closer environment. I certainly agree with that. Senator on this. It is also a red thread, likely a fitting term in this context, in the direction of an equal dance band. Hv. A senator began asking about solutions, how could you do this? We can learn a lot from a policy that is the product of decades of evolution and debates and experiences that have resulted in a tremendously successful policy that Iceland and I should make use of and learn from the experience of others instead of making the same mistake ourselves. But I will consider this discussion better later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u105	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson said something about the fact that what was done here was doing nothing and hoping for the best. But, Mr. President, there's a policy. That's a policy. This policy is to repeat the mistakes of others, to follow a course now described by the Danish prime minister and other national leaders as mistakes. We do, following this course, repeating this mistake, keeping in mind the efforts of our neighboring nations in trying to make up for this mistake after a great injury is done, social damage, I allow to say. In a declaration of dancemen in foreign languages, which I have sometimes referred to and before, says a chapter entitled The New Battle of Freedom, that dancers would like to be completely banned from foreign financial support with fellow believers in Denmark from countries that themselves do not respect or practice freedom of religion. It's on page 8. 14th They know that countries like Saudi Arabia and Kates and others have contributed a lot of money to build moans in Denmark. But the matter also turns on us directly because TV reported on November 22, 2015, that Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, then the president of Iceland, said that it was a surprise when the ambassador of Saudi Arabia told him of the government's plans in Saudi Arabia to strengthen the construction of the mosque on land. The story quotes Ólafur Ragnar, who has permission of presidents: We have laws in the country that forbid foreign authorities to contribute funds to political activity in Iceland. And there has been a broad political agreement on such a prohibition. And in a similar way, I think it's unnatural for a state like Saudi Arabia to have full freedom to mix with funds and involvement on the part of the embassy for religious worship in Iceland. Then let's go back to Denmark. On March 15 of this year, Denmark's law on defenses against foreign extremes, which Dan believed, undermined Danish society, took place in Denmark. Danish senators from most political parties voted for the Danish Commission. The law forbids accepting money or other forms of support from foreign sources that are thought to be dangerous. The objective of the Danish law is to forbid individuals or lawyers, including foreign governments or institutions and their companies, to work against or undermine democracy and human rights by providing financial contributions to domestic groups. The law states that the Danish Foreign and Correction Ministry is commissioned to make a list of individuals or lawyers, including governments, government agencies, and businesses, believed to be working against Danish basic values of democracy and human rights. Member States, who receive donations exceeding $10,000 (U.S.), do not think it is $200,000, during a 12-month period, shall be punished with a fine. Such an individual should be reimbursed within 14 days of the time he was aware or could be aware that the project had been carried out. Mr. President. During the dance council on the bill, there was a conflict. So the members of seven classes voted, a total of 79. There were nine and seven sitting by. I'm going to let myself tell you, Mr. President, that I believe Iceland and I, especially in the experience of Dana and other nations, especially because of what I was discussing earlier, the information that the ambassador of Saudi Arabia provided the president of Iceland, who was seen to be shocked, needs to learn from this experience. Let us also see that many other European nations have endeavored to respond in a similar way, as Mr. President, so do we.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u106	Mr. President. I was going to follow it a little bit, depending on what it was. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzma was crossing over, i.e. to learn from the experience of the northern countries when it comes to dealing with refugees and refugees. Now we've been discussing this bill, which comes from the government, the government party, the Independence Party, the forwarding party, and the left green, which goes out to get the same service to the rest of the statesmen that there will be no distinction between the way they come to the country. This will mean that everyone will receive the same service. Then we are sending a message to a foreign country that gives us an even better service than is available today. Today's services are very good, so let's not forget them. This is bound to mean, Mr. President, that more and more candidates will come here for international protection or security. It seems that there is a good service here, and people look where it is best. So we know, as I've traced here today, that unfortunately, there are too many people who misuse this system, apply for protection in an unprovoked way, i.e. She's not entitled to it, but go into the system here. It will then cost a lot of money for taxpayers when people are in the system for months, even years, and up to two years, and then receive a denial. As a result, the system has become out of control, and we cannot control how we receive people or how many people come here. It's something that's really worried and that's been made up here in speeches. I singled out especially in speech. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son thought that he well considered that we can't help the number of people coming here. There could be thousands of people here, and we wouldn't be able to control them, and the system would offer it, and the law is like that. What I wanted in this second speech is to learn from the experiences of neighboring nations. Then I'll look especially to Sweden. Internationally, the North countries have what is known for the North American welfare system. Its source is largely in Sweden. What enabled the Swedes to establish a powerful welfare system at the time was especially that it had developed a nation structure that was characterized by great harmony and harmony, where trust was formed among people who had been molded from the same soil and who had the same outlook on life. Sweden was, for example, A neutral state during World War II, which enabled the country to enrich itself on metals used in military equipment, especially in Germany. At the end of war, Sweden and the United States were among a few Western industrialized countries that had not suffered economic setbacks because of the war. This advantage enabled Sweden and the United States to grow economically rapidly after war. This is vital because Sweden has been extremely powerful when it comes to the welfare system. Economic growth in Sweden from the end of the war to the 1960's was an average of 4% per year. The high economic growth enabled the Swedish government to invest in the building of the welfare system. During the 1950's, economic growth was unusually high, or between 67%. At the same time, the workforce and the Swedish government began to increase the number of foreign labor forces that came largely from European countries, including Yugoslavia and Turkey. At the same time, the Swedish government set out a highly ambitious task that included building a million apartments, most of which were in blocks on the edge of various cities of the country. In the 1960's, Sweden also broke a new magazine by welcoming large groups of refugees, e.g. Jews and people who fled the military takeover in Chile. At the beginning of the 1980's, when the wave of international freedom of business broke down and the production of many Western countries moved largely to developing countries in Asia, Sweden faced its first severe economic crisis. During the early 1980's, national production was reduced. Despite these economic traumas, at that time the Swedish government began to define the land as a special protection for humanitarian assistance. As a result, refugees who arrived in Sweden increased rapidly, especially from Muslim countries in Africa and West Asia. This trend has continued since the beginning of this century and climaxed in the period of the war in Syria in 2015 that caused a great stream of refugees across Europe, when one to two million people sought refuge in the European countries, especially Germany and Sweden. During 2015-2017, Sweden, e.g. to pay more than 218,000 applications of trustees, and most were from Syria, Afghanistan, and Iraq. At the same time, however, some wealthy Arab nations rejected the refugees from the neighboring land of Syria. According to a new United Nations figures for 2019, 20% of Swedish citizens in Sweden from a foreign background are broken. 20% of the population are from a foreign field broken, and nearly 10% of the population are now Muslims. According to a recent projection of the Pew Center for Research in the United States, this figure could reach 35% by the middle of this century if current trends remain unchanged. More than 30% of all births in Sweden are mothers born outside the rocks. The impact of these dramatic changes on the composition of the Swedish nation is already taking care of the political scene. From the beginning of the 1920's to the late 1970's, sociders ruled virtually all domains in Sweden. The land had only three prime ministers during that period, who were highly respected internationally. However, since the beginning of this year, Sweden's population was well - rated with more than any other political group in the country. This political transition, Mr. President, is particularly linked to the growing concern of the public by the effects so great that so many non - American people already have at national culture, as well as to the high costs of adaptation by refugees that Swedish society has brought, especially concern about what this trend may mean for the long - term welfare system. Sweden has e.g. Too little incentive for refugees to reach out, especially for children's families, since it greatly reduces the quality of the system. Also, much of the refugee population has been packed together in blocks built in the 1950's at the edge of various cities, as I mentioned earlier. This policy has led many immigrants to not adapt to Swedish society and to hold firmly to the thinking and habits of their homeland. [[The president calls.]] I can't reach the end, Mr. President, this consideration of my learning from the experience of neighboring nations and especially Sweden, if the President could kindly put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u107	Mr. President. Here we discuss one of the most important issues that Western communities face today, the affairs of refugees. The flow of refugees has increased over the last few decades, and more and more people have sought a better life and have come to rich countries, such as Western countries and those of the nations, who can offer a better life, which is in the highest order the most natural thing. It has been called for that these nations will welcome people, welcome them. It is a requirement for immigrants to place their mark on existing nations and to mark their culture and environments, which are just the best of matters and often not lacking in need. We have been so lucky in Iceland to have a large number of people from many countries and regions of the world, and they have made their mark on this society that was very unique a few years ago or decades ago. I don't think it's just a couple hundred and forty-five years since there was a story if you saw a man or a woman who was something different in appearance than those normal old Icelanders who were here. Of course, people feel that this is a big change, and of course there is a dark side. But it has now become so much so that some may feel that they are living in Western society. While society can accept these people and adjust them and culture, it will not be so devastating that it disappears or becomes beneath them, I think in many respects the moral obligation of mankind to welcome people to where they can have it better and better than they had at home. Of course, there are very much and many moral questions that we are facing today. But it's so important in Iceland and maybe elsewhere that people are very shy to discuss it, especially open. Many who feel that the truth does not want to talk about it and want it to appear that a community like ours, which has 350,000 people, can take advantage of all the people who want to come here. In the world there are billions of people, and most of them are people who have been much worse than we have ever known. Of course, communities such as Iceland cannot accept all those who might wish to come here if they could. People work hard to get a better life, and that's also normal, but I want to agree with it. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson: I welcome this discussion, and good and necessary that it take place, and that it takes place in the most unbiased way possible. In fact, I think it is, as someone mentioned earlier, maybe with hope. But we must discuss the matter. To do so, we must make an effort. In Iceland, the policy of immigrants, and at the same time, they are received by inmates who may be the main topic of conversation here, has become a solution that no responsible politician or political party can ignore. However, the debate here, Mr. President, has been extremely demeaning, to say the least. Politicians have approach the group with great shyness, as though they are in a glass store, with much breakage in the seminary. Of course, we are discussing people. We're talking about human beings, we're talking about need, poverty, misery, people who experience war and disaster. Naturally, this is a very sensitive group of subjects, but we have to take the discussion. I feel that the main theme of the discussion should be that we should, of course, welcome all of us to receive and give them a warm welcome. One of them is that people come to the country and conform to Icelandic culture. I think it was a very serious mistake here at the reception of refugees and refugees and others who came here, immigrants. We haven't done it properly. We're going along this path, but we haven't really cared for it. I'll give you an example of Icelandic education. I'm sorry, Mr. President, but we're slightly losing that there's spoken Icelandic in our country. We've been losing it, and it's not good enough at all, and it can't go on like this. Congress members and groups of people who appear to have no policies in this category have only shouted at those who participate in the discussion. It seems, however, that Pirata's party has the best policy of not accepting everyone who wants to come here. However, there may be a policy, Mr. President, in itself, and nothing to say. I don't agree with that. I believe that we are expected to receive people whom we can accept and have the ability to do things, the ability to be adapted to the community, to accept those who come and want to work with us in the community. There are a lot of such people already in this country, tens of thousands who come here and work and participate in our society, and they're well. But to keep this economic control, as we have seen in this discussion, doesn't seem to work out for me. The above mentioned why. In a speech earlier, a member of the Independence Party admitted that there was no policy in this group and that they did no better than to hope for the best, hopes that the system could handle the current that came here, and that there would not be too many here, so the system would be able to handle it. Of course, Mr. President, it is totally unannounced that we have such a policy in this category that we hope that something will not happen and the system is not ready to accept, and then, when the current comes, the whole system will explode. It is, of course, completely unacceptable, as we have seen over the past few years. It's unannounced. This is not only unacceptable because of financial views but also objectively. We must try, like, once, Mr. President, to learn from neighboring lands before we are in trouble. Today, however, the policy of doing nothing is to hope for the best. We are, Mr President, in a good way to repeat the mistakes of other nations, the course of failure that they are now falling away from each other and turning away from the path that we, little Iceland, are beginning to follow. Isn't it true, Mr. President, that they call for a course in this suit? Who is she? What is the policy of the political parties of this class? Who is she? What's government policy? This bill is a good example of policy. It's here to grant shelterers, if they get a permit, the rights of refugees, so-called code-worshipers, that we get here by contract with the United Nations and are doing their own, I think, fine. Provide the shelters on the land for the same rights. Is that acceptable? No, I'm not. For what? Because I think there's a message out in the big world that won't go past the criminals who work in this field and live on getting people to escape and people in distress, poor people, people looking for a better life, to pay all the rent, to direct it to countries where they may be able to get the best treatment. These are thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, and millions of people who are looking for a better life. A message with such a bill and other government initiatives will be just what it looks like, so it's not strong, to come to Iceland, the government will welcome people and they'll get there at all for benefits, and we're here by not being able to choose from the people who are really in need, and maybe people who are in an even greater need. Women and children will remain because they do not have the wealth or ability or the ability to walk the sole stage that refugees need to pursue in order to get to the West. Women and children, of course, who need the greatest help, find it harder to follow their own steps and reach their destination. We have no control over that. We're just taking over the people who can get here. The system here, that's a long crack, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son acknowledged this in a speech earlier, we are opening even more. We're sending a message into the outside world that it's a good idea to come here. The course is really no, but said so. Senator. We'll take it only when they get here. The system around the lawsuit is long broken. It just so happened that it began to pour out some of the hospices from Europe. In a short time, all existing pipes were filled, and the situation has actually been that way ever since. There's no direction to this suit in Iceland. Pirates want to open the land. What is the policy of other classes? What's the policy of the Archipelago? Unchangeable condition? Hope for the best? Hope you don't have too many? Hope we can handle it? What's the policy of the United States? What is the policy of the Independence Party and the advance? Unchangeable condition? Hope this doesn't start streaming tens of thousands of inmates? We receive six times as many of the rest of the northern countries as possible, and most of them all. Why would that be, Mr. President? I think it's in the eye to think it's the easiest thing to come up here, the easiest to get into the system. It's just that way. Other countries are converging their systems and want to control themselves which people they help and where they help them. This system costs billions of dollars each year here because of the unfounded applications for international protection in many cases and we are paying big money for it, billions. I think, Mr. President, there were about 4 billion last year. We are often at a church hall fighting about 100 or 50 million. K. Here and there, until the SOUTH or anything, at a convention of all sorts, where money should flow, what money should come from, but in this matter, it doesn't matter how much it will cost. We don't even know for ourselves, and no one worries about it. Why is this supposed to be like this? The middle class wants to put bonds on unregulated expenses for this class because of unfounded applications for international protection. Governments in the North feel that their communities are in grave danger and are turning away from this path. They're building a security system and they want to run their own business beyond this point. How can we, Mr. President, help as many people as possible? Is it here in Iceland to pay the support of those who have unfounded applications, a predatory living that could sustain far more people who are in need in their own country? Does this make any sense? I say no. This doesn't make any sense. If we really want to help as many people as possible, we shouldn't do this. This is the wrong approach and wrong approach. What's the reason Danir's about to take another course? Why? Other members of the council may now have established the exact reason for this. I'm talking about responsibilities in the finance of the state. We are here for days discussing government financial matters, maintenance, planning, delinquency, goals, numerically standards. We hear it every day at the conference hall, but when it comes to this group, people shrug and hope for the best. How sad! We have to make more use of the money to help more people. I'll be at the end of the organized crime, Mr. President. I requested a few days ago regarding operations to help correct the rise of organized crime groups. I worked with the police for decades, so that many of the segregators coming here are completely anonymous and asymptomatic. The truth is, Mr President, and the serious thing about this is that the police have no idea who these people are, they have no idea where these people come from, have no idea if they are warriors from the Middle East or anyone else. They're asymptomatic, anonymous, and even fingerless, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u108	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion, i.e. that it usually takes place. I also want to thank her for being on the program in this way. Today's debate has been a lot of advising and has been adjusted, except for one mentally illdest character in the history of much of it, hasn't it? paritaprevir As this discussion has been so far, the Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, an advance class, who immediately began to talk about racialism and other matters. But, Mr. President, what we need, the people, and what we want, is to be able to discuss these matters without prejudice and rationality. In itself, this bill is like an iceberg, there's only one nine that's out, the rest is down because we don't know what its approval will mean. The middle class would try to point out what might be involved in accepting the bill, and we would warn against cutting down the rest of the inmates or people who are looking for international protection and hostilities, giving them the same rights. This will increase the pressure on the system we've built on these matters. That system isn't super-cool, Mr. President. I'm sorry, it's not. Therefore, it is in itself serious that matters such as these are presented in which people are well prepared to present cases of this magnitude without even realizing and realizing the cost that will come. In itself, I had no special need to participate in this discussion today. But I have to say, maybe there were two speeches. Congress officials who made me sit here in a public chair. The first to count then. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who only set me on fire, not for the first time. That's a good one. A senator gave an inspired talk in which he spoke up in a religious heat. It was one thing that I found very interesting in his speech of many other things. He became very familiar with the refugees who find themselves here who do not profess to be Christian. There is no one in this room that I know of that makes any distinction between which religion this is and the other religion is in distress. But that's how it happens, Mr. President, and that's why it was of itself useful for this reason. The senator would say this, that we Icelanders receive very few Christian refugees. Most know that Christians are persecuted, even persecuted, in many cases. in areas where a considerable percentage of refugees or people looking for international protection are provided here. Hence, it is not in itself that we should not welcome more Christian refugees. However, in this discussion, Mr. President, it is that here and outside the door are so-called liberal forces that seem to view the arrival of refugees like Eurosion, some competition in the best of what is best, in this case, best-informed. It's not that simple, Mr. President. That's not what it's about. It is simply a matter of accepting the groups of refugees that we can successfully cope with because refugees or refugees do not complete south at Leifs station when people arrive there. That's where the reception begins. Mr. President. About 20 years ago, I read a BA report on the affairs of the trustees and immigrants, and especially about their children. That report warned that if they were not taught in their mother tongue and then in English, they would be exposed to the school system for failure. In short, Mr. President, all of this has come true. It's all happened on the day of the warning. There has been talk of the North countries in this discussion, and it is not that, Mr. President, is unforeordained because me and the Middle Ages have pointed out that if we take the population, we will take the Icelanders on a far greater number of hospices, i.e. People in search of international protection, while other northern nations, such as Norway and Denmark. We take in considerably more than these two nations and more than Sweden and considerably more than Finnar. Why do I say that? Because, of course, we are under obligation to accept people as others do, it is so strange that in this matter now we are simply taking the opposite course from the other northern countries. Denmark is e.g. right now, running off a lot of people, and I'd be very surprised, Mr. President, if a considerable number of those people wouldn't find their way here today. In this business, such as anywhere else, it is heard if one area or one country provides more help than the nearest country or region. As a result, these people are looking here more than others, understandable, because we are talking about a group of people who are looking for a better life, an escape from disasters. There is nothing quite different from the fact that a large part of the nation went west through the sea. But today the world scene is not what it is. The settlers who went from here to the Western world in their time did not get any help. They got someone on the ground, and then it depended on them on how they were going to get along. Sadly, many of the diseases that were unknown in Iceland died when they traveled west through the sea and were slaughtered there in their initial years. Today, however, those seeking international protection in any area enjoy rights. Perhaps because of the scope of these rights, our neighbors, who have been very prominent at the welcome of international protection, have now come to the point where they cannot cope with the situation. This was made fine earlier this evening in speech. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. It was in itself a pleasure to have a member of the Independence Party here because the Independence Party has been absent from this discussion, not just here today, but now for quite a while. It is as if they followed the fine order that if you are faced with an assignment or problem, they wait and pause and keep their mouth shut and hope that the problem will disappear. But I'm sorry, it's not so about this case, fine independents. I'm afraid it won't go away. On the contrary, it will grow. This, on the contrary, will be more important, especially financially. That's mainly because of what we middle-class people are now warning of the consequences of accepting this bill. This is hardly because we dislike foreign people; nor is it because they are of other races or religions. It's not about that, it's not. We want to do what Iceland has to do in these matters. We want to contribute to the scales, but we do not want to welcome a large group of people whom we cannot control properly. Then I remind you again, Mr. President, I told you earlier, it has been proved in the last 20 years here in Iceland, and in the last 35◯40 years in Scandinavia that if you lose the state of the trustee business, if you lose control, then there are all kinds of problems, social problems, and other forms of issues, unfortunately. This has nothing to do with the fact that people who are traveling around the world are worse people than others, not at all. It's about that if the masses are so limited that they can't handle the situation, then there's hope. And what will it take? The same people that have been welcomed and welcomed but are not able to do what they should do. That's the situation we want to warn you about, the Middle Class. The bill presented here does not result in any cost analysis. No one seems to know, and there's been a persistent inquiry about this, what they expect, i.e. the cost of this. It's been pointed out, because on the ground this bill is also a bill about Polymate, and people have focused on the fact that there are only a few standards that follow the bill's approval. But I'll say again, this bill is like an iceberg, but it's only one nine that stands out. That is why a more costly effect of approval must be observed. We must know, Mr. President, before we accept it here at the council. We need to know, too, because we have to be sure that we can take care of the people that have come here, as I said before, in a decent way. We cannot, either for our own sake or even for the loss of these people who find here, do it because they heap it together somewhere over nothing or small with the overwhelming problems of such provisions. It's true that now that our system has been slowly expanding because it's not thin, we have an example of how people have been up here for seven years in angerlessness, as you say, with no position. Since then, in many cases it has been necessary to dismiss these people after all this time, which is wickedness, Mr. President. That's why we've emphasized, Middle-class, that any business that comes with the conquest here should be taken care of very quickly. The position of the individual should be found very quickly. I've said that in a sermon before, Mr. President, and these are old numbers and may have become quite different, but I worked at the international airport for 11 years, in 1996, to become 2008, and over that time, these eleven years, had 2% of the people who came here in search of international protection by a fugitive in the United Nations refugee Convention. I presume this number has increased rather, Mr. President. But I also pretend to know that this is much less part of the people that find here. There are two factors that we have identified. First, it is that the number of people here finding international protection is people smuggled from places that have sold all their resources, who have even left their futures to some other nation - to - country group. We'd best stop the river from starting with Mr. President, i.e. To keep these people from getting caught in smugglers' eggs. People are being seduced, and they have been for some time as widespread and profitable as drug abuse. And after the bastard's already sold his cargo, he's the one who's going to smuggle the person from abroad, no matter whether he's alive or dead when he arrives at his destination. It's these calamities, Mr. President, that we must avoid. It is this fate that we need to avoid. Now that Danir is running off or sending out a lot of people from the country, it is especially because they say, "We can help many more people with the same amount closer to their home. " I think Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, was with the first men to discuss this at the time and that because of this, he had a bad temper. But it happened that shortly after he moved this case here, the United Nations Refugee Organization of Refugees published this as a sort of policy. It would be more desirable, wise, more practical, and more practical for all to help people near their homes than to help them find the journey I described before, to be caught in the hands of the voiceless people who do not move at all, no matter how and in what condition they are in when they finally arrive at their destination. Mr. President. In addition, it should be noted that the result of this move is that a very large and large number of children are now in a state of anger throughout Europe, without escort, and are easy prey to all kinds of disciplinarians traveling there. We must also avoid the prospect of bringing children into the hands of such ones. Thus, these fine people are being helped closer to their homeland and are responding to the number of people we can handle. [[The president calls.]] - I see I'm not quite finished, Mr. President, even though it's over, so I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u109	A respectable president. I want here in my second speech under this issue a little discussion about the costs of this bill and the views that have developed in this relationship and, of course, on the other hand, that we must bear in mind the messages passed by the bill and the secondary effects it may have, and I allow myself to claim that it will occur. I talked it over a long time, sort of as long as I could, with 1st. The point that I consider the cost of lunch, in chapter 6, of the bill's article on impact assessment, is a few of the most questionable. By permission of the President, I would like to quote here to the bill's text, which says, by permission of the president: It is estimated that the increased role of the Multi-Same centre will require two long-term status values as well as the cost of a job position in the capital area. The annual pay rate is about 23 million. K. In addition to the cost of single - priced purchases to a sum of 700 fars. K. Overall, the annual budget is 22.7 billion. K. (For fully formatted text, see publication) Is there anyone who believes this is going to be the real cost of this bill? The matter must be looked very narrowly so that it can withstand a measure of rationality. I thought it best to say that there would be some coverage of the estimated cost of approval of this bill in the light of the secondary effects of the Committee under the 2nd Environment. ... froma majority of welfare committees. Under it, write Chairman Helga Vala Helgaa Helgadóttir, Halla Rafney Kristoffsdótttir Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ingi Igr Kristinsson, Halldóra Mogensen and Vilhjálmur Árnason. This five - page committee does not agree with these costs. What follows next is what says on the first page of the committee's opinion, by permission of the president: The European Commission reported on a reference work that might require the need for the Department of Social Affairs to save a special fund, a response fund, helping rurals to meet unexpected costs for refugees. The careful comments made by the European Union's members were given a review of the case, which is so bed - down, but it is noteworthy that the second paragraph of the Union's narrative begins with the permission of the president: It is surprising that the bill should be submitted again without consideration for the detailed coverage of the welfare committee on the bill at the previous legislation meeting. Now I have to admit that I have compared the opinion of the committee at this time with the last council, but it seems to be all that was presented without the last lap or last secretary's opinion in that context. This thought - provoking comment by the European Union of rural society emphasizes that it is in part being transferred to the rural communities from the way it is currently taking place. If the general opinion is that the contracts that have been made -- I now specifically mention contracts that have been made with Smokejanestown, Hafnarfjördur, I believe that Reykjavík was the third member of that operation, it has been a challenge, and is necessary only to refer to the news flows of them and the local community that have developed in this context. Of course, there is no rational opinion that this bill has a cost of 22.7 million, and that is part of the monotonous cost, when the cost of a single trustee is at an average of 6 billion. K. every year. We know these figures from the previous year, the total cost of about 4 billion. If there is really an acceptable way in a bill such as this to take into account only very marked costs and in no way to the secondary costs of a bill, then it would be desirable to have a word place at the highest level. Secretary of finance, whether the Minister of Ministers simply feels that it would be in direct opposition to public financial laws in this way. This appears to have been replaced by an updated date and language number from the last donation compared to this reference by the European Union member. But for us senators here making these decisions, i.e. about how the rule should be done, we have to put this information in the background. Suppose only ten additional candidates, if we only use the average cost of each person, according to the figures I referred to earlier, would we just take the average number and say there are ten that come in addition, in view of the fact that there are data on it, as stated in the cover talk. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, by permission of Presidents: ▪... has been working on a concerted reception of refugees, regardless of whether they come on their own roads, through international protection or human-sufficiency license, or by the concerted welcome of refugees. It comes at the same time as the Scandinavian nations, that I think all of them, are going the other way as far as this message goes. If this message only causes an increase of ten, it's a 150% increase compared to the cost estimate available in this bill. And, of course, I mention this number ten, sort of -- well, I'm not gonna say in jokes, it wouldn't be appropriate, but the effect comes from them at that rate, as we know, that we're not in control. I remind you of an excellent speech. paritaprevir Behemoth, Brynjar of Níelsson, in this discussion. A senator was so well - versed that Europe's trust - seeking system was actually broken down. This means that the current, just as with the water, looks for a water source that is remembered in the case of the water, but in this case the current will be for the country where most and best service is given. In this regard, I find it necessary to remind and keep that we should welcome the receivers, but we cannot do everything for everyone and in this context, we must learn from what our neighbors are doing today. I think they're going to fire it, like a sledgehammer. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son came in earlier, and they shut their eyes, and let all this go without restraint. Then there will be no consultation, and it would be a pleasure to have more members here - why. paritaprevir Hermaphs, Níelsson's son, had an excellent part in the discussion earlier. But what I want to know is, if it is really so that most members of the council here at council think there is no secondary effect on this bill, because if it is, we're in a bad place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u110	V.E.G. President. Significantly, the number of people who apply for protection in this country compared to our neighboring state. It is noteworthy that there are not many non - Witness children, but most of them are African boys. While it should not be said whether we can weave the age of the boys, we need to be confident that the methods used in dating are validated scientific methods, as per the surgeon's review. Of course, children are a sensitive group and should be careful when it comes to their issues. Most of them, however, come with parents or guardians. They enjoy the care of their parents and seem to be a foreign agency to ensure their best interests. It is of some concern how long the application will take. It is reasonable to say that waiting for a decision, consent, or admission is particularly difficult for children. How important it is, then, that physical treatment take time and order making it clear that there is no doubt about the rightness of the inmates! Decisions need to be explained, and decisions must be carried out as early as possible. It is concerned how long it will take to gather information about the trustees who come here without identification. It is necessary for passengers to move here to the country to be responsible and to make copies of their IDs so that they can be called for. A law might be passed that those who come in this country without identification be referred to after an interview on a border where they could determine in a short period of time whether the person's case should be dealt with for material treatment. On the border, it should be possible to determine whether a person is a person, but such matters require caution. The information is of the good and no one shares it. Clearly, the committee is not expected to take the lead in matters involving those who seek refuge, but there is probably no greater need for this than at this time. This group of people costs too much, and it is certain that taxpayers can make much more money. Why is there so much harassment in this country? Why is it taking so long to complete applications? We're supposed to be good with public money, but are we? No doubt, by shortening your schedule, you would be more likely to meet those who are in the middle of the day. That is where we are truly committed, i.e. ... withdiversaries. Why are the experiences of the Norwegian, Dana, and other nations ignored? Here's an example from Spain. Spain has recently had a huge ass-hole to stop us illegal immigrants and gangs taking advantage of the refugee problem. Police in the Canary Islands have recently taken up some of the biggest operations they've had in years, but it has so far arrested more than 50 people and confiscated large amounts of money, weapons, and illegal passports. This is part of a secret police operation that is indeed a national campaign against man traders and illegal move that seems to be a major industry in this area. All of this has to do with the coming of boats traveling from the west coast of Africa to the Canary Islands. In a recent major operation, heavy - armed police officers appeared in bulletproof vests with automatic weapons and were assisted by Europol. This was all part of a coordinated raid on many south of Gran Canaria, especially at the Mogán Company, and also on the island of Tenerife. Many of those arrested were foreigners who had lived there long enough to have already received a Spanish citizenship but who were from their background. Among the arresters are Italians and Moroccos, apparently organized crime rings. Action has continued, and further attacks and arrests are not excluded. Police are accusing those held captive to commit a variety of crimes linked to illegal human sales, organization, communication, and travel on open boats known as ◯patazis; and from various places on the coasts of West Africa, all to transport people illegally to the islands that are so brittle to Spain and Europe. This is not the first operation performed by the police. Last year, action began against several illegal organizations connected to a man - made agency with a location in Lanzarore, who are thought to be responsible for the arrival of thousands of illegal immigrants to the Canary Islands. What remains this year through the end of March, a total of 6,1222 illegal immigrants have made their way to Spain's sea route. 3,436 of them reached the coast of the Canary Islands. There are more than twice as many as at the same time last year according to a report published by the State Department. V.E.G. President. These are cold-blooded facts and information. Why do I mention this in a talk on the subject under discussion? Yes, it was, and I decided to give this speech because a question arose about the consequences of the bill being discussed, after it becomes law, what the consequences, and how this will cost, and how we will keep our guard on the fact that there is always a growing number of lovers. It has been said of open taps and has even had to increase the number of bananas. We are concerned that we are taking steps toward losing control of how we are going to handle these matters. That's why we're bringing this up. So it's not that the unforeseeable talks we deliver today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u111	Mr. President. I'm going to go back to a little where I left off, and I was discussing what we can learn from our neighboring countries, especially from the North countries, in the affairs of the trustees and refugees. In that respect, I specifically discussed Sweden. I'm going to continue this discussion only because it is of utmost importance that we look to the nations who have a lot of experience in this series of subjects, the welcome of the inmates, and the refugees. Sweden is on its own in these areas, and it has become an interesting change of direction. Similarly, there has been a change in this legal class in Denmark, as has been attributed somewhat to today's talks, and so have the middle - class members, in their articles too, in particular in particular. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, who has a comprehensive knowledge of northern policies in the affairs of refugees and fugitives. I'm going to continue my coverage of Sweden. During the 2015/2017 season, Sweden took care of more than 218,000 applications of trustees. Most of them came from Syria, Afghanistan, and Iraq. At the same time, however, certain rich Arab states rejected the Mediterranean waters by welcoming refugees from their neighboring land of Syria. That's very interesting, Mr. President. The countries closest to these refugees, e.g. From Syria, when it comes to culture, customs, language, and so forth, where adjustments should be made, how easy it should be for these blessed people who have had to flee from war, who refused to accept it, the Arab countries of the Mediterranean River, who certainly have everything to bear in order to receive refugees from Syria, economicism, and the culture and customs of the people living in Syria. According to new United Nations figures for 2019, Swedish citizens of a foreign state have become 20% in Sweden and nearly 10% in Sweden are Muslim. According to a recent estimate by the Pew Research Centre in the United States, this figure may reach 35%, i.e. that the Muslim population in Sweden could be about 35% by the middle of this century if the current trends remain unchanged. More than 30% of all births in Sweden are born among mothers outside the rocks. The impact of these dramatic changes on the composition of the nation is already taking care of the political scene in Sweden. From the beginning of the 1920's to the late 1970's, sociad Ecords ruled virtually all domains in Sweden. The land had only three prime ministers during that period, who were highly respected internationally. Now, however, there has been a great transformation in Swedish politics, for at the beginning of this year, Sweden's Swamps were well - rated with more than any other political party in the country. This political transition is particularly linked to the growing concern of the public by the effects so large that so many people from abroad are already having in the culture of the land, as well as to the high costs of adapting refugees to Swedish society, and especially to the concerns of what these trends may mean for the long - term sustainable welfare system. Sweden has e.g. Too little incentive for refugees to reach out, especially for children's families, since it greatly reduces the quality of the system. A large number of refugees have also packed themselves together in blocks built in the 1950's at the edge of various cities. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Time's up. I didn't get it done, so I would kindly ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u112	Mr. President. There has only been a discussion here that it has certainly been abused here and, of course, in many other places; it is not possible to assume that criminal gangs who rent all their resources and place them at risk will, in all cases, want to comply with the established rules. But in view of this discussion, I would like to first draw on the abuse of the system, and if the system is so built up that it can help you to misuse, of course, primarily affect those who really need help, and especially those who really need help. Therefore, we need to design a welcome system and evaluate how we handle these matters, putting first the possibility of helping the most people in need. It is the policy today in many North countries, in most countries, except in Iceland for this bill, to reevaluate this arrangement with its objective. On the other hand, Iceland is being proposed to go in the opposite direction compared with the rest of the North. With this bill, the Icelandic government and other sponsors of the bill are, in effect, making themselves part of a perimeter group of this problem, since Denmark is now a solidarity from right to soybellium and actually even further to the left, including sociad·coders with partners that are still farther to the left. There is a solidarity in this broad range of need for change. These changes are on the contrary to what is suggested here. And the latest news from Sweden is that it has now reached a turning point from the center of at least one point of view. and to the right about an update of an unrecognised arrangement. The objective is that these countries will be better equipped to help those who need their help most. With this bill, the Icelandic government, including the Specialist Party and the Independence Party, is setting up with categories that are on the left in the new northern left, border-left we can call it. But then this policy change, and I'm gonna start with Denmark. Now I emphasize that the key to the policy I'm going to take over here, I'm going to begin with the company's policy, is to do the opposite of what is being proposed here by the Icelandic government. I think it is appropriate to simply start by reading the introduction from the direction of this company's dancers to explain how much there is a difference between the policy of dancers, which is based on decades of experience and discussion in that category and Danish politics and society and then the course of the Icelandic government today. It is a policy that comes from an enormous amount of work based on experience and facts. Now, Mr. President, I see that my time in this speech is running out, but next talk I will continue and act specifically in regard to the course of a dancer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u113	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start in Sweden this time and go back to 2017. It is considered that approximately 27,000 terrorists have come to Sweden. The foreign minister then felt that it was appropriate to receive up to 14,000. As we know, the trend has been severe in Sweden. The gang of crime took advantage of this window, which opened in 2017 only to get its people to the country, apparently, involved in criminal activity. That's what I want to stay. This is the source of the greatest emotional impact on those who truly need protection, our protection. The number of human victims since then, men, women, and even children is unknown today. This occurred when the tide of refugees and circuits was the greatest, and Sweden was among those who opened their borders and granted permission to all the inhabitants. I remember that at that time, people were not required to have a Swedish social security number, and it was acceptable at the time, which resulted in the failure to be traced back by people who made it easier for these crime circles to take advantage of conditions for a good purpose. We who watch the Norwegian media see almost daily reports of gangs that are certainly made up of foreign people and local residents, if we can say so. However, in recent years there has been an explosion, unfortunately. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir The Sigmunds of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson earlier, have decided to propose a proposal that will include political parties at the Swedish Parliament. In order to limit the foundation of a human dwelling for humanitarian reasons. It also means that languages demand is hardened at the same time when the percentage of immigrants is severely limited, and that is a complete transversion. This is a somewhat similar way to the way the Danites went and had their laws established. It's a sad situation, as it might have been avoided that it ended like this. Some 60% of Swaziy today is highly critical of the foreign policy that then results in the fulfillment of this transformation. In Iceland we have found that so - called transverse committees to handle the affairs of foreigners and refugees, and early in 2019 C.E. published a report. Il. Its section contains guiding rules for rural society on the welcome of refugees, etc. They say, with President's permission: Mushroom people receive a variety of services from the welfare and education system. Social Services Legal Services further expands the ministry, but it is important that refugees receive frequent interviews in social counseling, especially during the first year after permit... Later, says: ▪ Sloth people are themselves responsible for searching for shelters, and they have free choice for farms. If refugees are exposed to immediate housing problems, a legal staff member should assist them according to Article 46. legislation on local social services Also, refugees are receiving basic financial support and are evaluating whether to provide strength to refugees based on their unique situation, their circumstances, and their needs. The strengths given for guidance include house strengths, volumes of Icelandic study, family relationships travel concentrations, and levels of specialised assistance due to post-traumatic stress. Refugees have comparable rights to Icelandic citizens in the social security system, and rural services are aimed at legal homes, and refugees have the same right to service as other residents. According to 2 mg. Section 15. legislation on local social services repays the state budget for foreign citizens during the first two years after their home has been registered and when referred to as an expedited cost, it is a direct expense but it is not paid for the labor of the local workers. It's a very good goal, it's so good that I'm worried about it. What if what happened in Sweden a few years ago? It has been a long since an explosion in the arrival of refugees from Africa, to become a refugee neighborhood, unfortunately, and the results were not good. But where do our communities stand when the numbers increase? We are now spoken of as having six times as many candidates as our neighboring nations. What needs to be done is a basis for discussion on this subject. We may even have reached the point where we need to re-create our policy or even set a course that works, which is trustworthy and true. I say this because a large study was conducted in the University of Akureyri, which was involved in immigrants. This study was conducted in 2020 and was published on the report. It shows that different groups of immigrants receive different services according to their status. It consists of a service ranging from well - organized service to refugees, indicating that it is being established, in being a casual and less organized service to the general population of immigrants. That is a thought - provoking point. I want to stay there for a minute. We do not seem to be able to maintain an adequate or professional standing with those who are already part of the community. Yet, we face the fact that there is still going to be an increase, and I don't talk about if the number of people who want to come here. All of us want to welcome people, but we need to do the same. In the University of Akureyri, the study shows that the training and support of teachers does not appear to be in an orderly, short - term route. If so, they refer to teachers who teach English to foreigners. We must do better, especially with these teachers, if we are going to be a good listener. We must do well. We can do better than that. Study participants were asked to evaluate the quality of the Icelandic courses they had attended. It was 1,754 who answered that question, and it shows that much more was not satisfied with the Icelandic study he attended. These findings were consistent across all laboratory sites. I remember there were four societies underneath. Two of them had a set course in the group of litigators, but two of them didn't. This is a measure of concern and provides grounds for further testing of Icelandic studies. The immigrants themselves have said that it may be necessary to set up a test so that they can keep up with it in order to apply for work, to increase the quality of the Icelandic lesson. There would then be more demands on teachers who respond to their teaching. The importers said that it was really the key to Icelandic society and that they were often hired to work in Iceland without a requirement for them to be familiar with Icelandic. They do not like it, and they want to increase the quality of the study. We need to be careful. We are following the methodology that our neighbors are turning away from because it does not work. True, it is beautiful on paper, but more is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u114	Mr. President. In my speech earlier, I said that we need to be careful to welcome the group of inmates or those who apply for international protection that we could handle and render them adequate service. And because you're afraid, Mr. President, there's one thing that concerns you about the bill we're discussing here, they don't seem to realize what it's going to be, whether it's about a lot of money or a lot more. What I wanted to draw forward, Mr. President, is that the companies of the Icelandic community who have borne the heat and burden from the welcome of the refugees to the country have been badly exposed to the pressures this brings, both to the foundation of society and to the whole of surveillance and to other things to be done when people are loaded together in one place under circumstances that could be better. That is exactly what was previously discussed: The need to be in a position to do something decent or so important is to oppose inmates or people who are looking for international protection, but it is natural to be in a position to take care of them in an appropriate way. So there are many things to look at, Mr. President--now I see that the hall is running hard. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, and I'm so happy. We need to be careful, as I said earlier, to accept the number of people we can handle in the kind of service we are doing. There is no concern in this bill, Mr. President, and unfortunately it seems that there has been no attempt to look into the future regarding the growth of this bill. It may be appropriate to suggest that last year, while the country was minimally flying, especially during the first wave of Covid, it was found that the arrival of the inmates or people in search of shelter would be reduced by 15%, if I recall correctly, from the previous year on, while the number of regular flight workers was reduced by 85%. This, as odd as it is today, has been said that the site of last year's passengers, in 2020 at the minimum of flight, has been the trustees or people in search of international protection and capitalism. They've brought up a lot of those who came to Iceland last year, so strange and crevice that they are now. It is natural, as we have seen before, that those who are handling, that is now a polite word, the travel of these people, either by smuggling it or by applying it or by how it is now, do not care that the situation in both the flight and the destination is not the best way to see health. Of course, this may be the final part of a group of passengers that is delayed because those who organize the journey do not care whether they will be able to arrive safely at their destination or not. Mr. President. When we are trying to peer into the future and see how this bill or its approval affects us, in a financial way, we must not forget the part of the community in this matter because they bear the heat and weight of caring for this group despite the fact that the State itself is responsible for cost. It's a sobering thought, Mr. President, that I had a few weeks ago or months ago a conversation with the representative of the Foreign Institute. Then I realized that last year something called the first interview would happen, i.e. The first interview he gets when he gets to Iceland, after six weeks, Mr. President. For six weeks the subject is waiting to meet with a government representative for such a serious discussion. It's six weeks. All that time, they need to be cared for, making sure that they have sheltered and something to bite and burn. However, they were hearing of the fine people working at the Foreign Institute that this time, that time, the waiting time, had been greatly strengthened because he had spent months in the preceding years. That's why I'm talking about that, Mr. President, that we can't receive anyone else but so we can handle them properly. It's not okay to have people wait weeks and months after the first interview. It's completely annoying, and it's wickedness, as mentioned earlier, that people, especially families, should stay in Iceland for years, even as they should, sending men, women, and children out of the country after all of them have taken their roots here. They are to be ripped up again and sent out of the country. Therefore, we have stressed, and now I'm going to once again underline it, that each case is dealt with as quickly as it can be done. It's in everyone's best interest. It is in the interest of the natural state funds that people are not here for a very long time and, of course, for those who are involved here who seek here that they are not made to wait here all this time in uncertainty about their destiny. Now, I'm telling you again, Mr. President, these six weeks are only waiting for the first interview, and then the decision-making takes place. Like it came, e.g. ... pastthewrong. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson before his excellent speech, which I'm about to commend very much, is this waiting time and the natural time. That's because the system is, as he rightly pointed out, late in floats and there's no quick turn around, as you say. That is why we need to do all we can to increase this pace that would benefit both those seeking us and all of us. You can't see in itself that there is no record of this in an existing bill, i.e. that it takes money, increases money, just so that you can live with it, what you've been up to in this case, about the speed and humanity. Of course, we're supposed to welcome the people we're going to meet and receive. We're not supposed to do it with a hanging hand, we're not supposed to do it half-heartedly. We're supposed to do it so that there's no waste. That is why we need to check that there are no more people here and that we will receive and that we may be able to fulfill this assignment in a decent way. Mr. President. I see my time is running out, unfortunately, and so ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u115	A respectable president. I'm just going to go on with a few thoughts about what problems I think people are trying to solve when they talk about these matters of the depth we've seen here today and yesterday, especially by half the time. The members of the Central Party. There's a lot of money in this business, $3.9 billion if I get it right, let's say 4 billion. Then I've heard the figure 4.5 billion, that's in that direction. Then there's possibly a lot of people, some way they're overpopulated. I can't believe that 361 people, like last year's arrival through the rest of the security system, are too much, especially with the fact that 4,500 children were born here at the same time. Of course, there is also in the background, although that may not be plainly said, concern over cultural differences, and the fact that religion or culture has some kind of divisive influence or is contrary to liberal democracies. I'm afraid of that discussion exactly, a respectable president. And I'm not afraid to criticize things I think are the opposite of liberal democratic values. There, religious dogmas have been very prominent in history and have had a powerful influence in resisting liberal democracies. A simple example: Women's rights contradict some parts of the New Testament, not just the Old Testament, but the New Testament. The opposition to homosexual rights, and especially homosexual marriages, is largely based on solid religious ground. I know it's not in fashion here, speaking religion down as they say, but it's just the way it is. Such was the case in Arab religions, such as Christianity, and Islam is no exception. They have resisted the trend toward liberal democratic values, here and elsewhere. We have become reasonably liberal and reasonably democratic in spite of our Christian heritage, not because of it, as well. Let's not put a tip on our toes around it. That's just the way it is. It's just our story. It's not necessarily beautiful or comfortable. It's hard, that's just how it is. It is no problem for me to take the same discussion when it comes to Islam or the influence of Islam and various interpretations of the many people can have on people's attitudes toward liberalness and democracy, that is not a problem. In general, I believe that when religion is mixed with politics, the outcome is worse, at least at the most. In fact, I don't know any other examples in case of that. Still, we must always distinguish between the people who promote religion and religion itself. I can quote Bible verses very closely and show how they are the opposite of gay women's rights and equality for the law of the general democracy, indeed. The Roman letter, chapter 13, verses 154, does not directly pour democracy out of the mouth of God, nor does it exactly, though the other. Yet, we live in a democratic state despite the fact that this is part of a Christian, despite the fact that there is a state of wealth and well - funded funds, more than this group, by the time I remember. I could go into Catholic dogmas, many of which I find offensive and disgusting, I'll just say out loud. Yet there are Catholics in Iceland, even in positions of power, using e.g. not against gay rights. It's just the same with a Muslim, a respectable president. People are not religions that promote religion. Now it may seem strange for someone to claim that he is favoring a religious doctrine or a sacred book that says something that does not reflect the ideologies or conduct of an individual. All right, I think it's weird, too, because I'm not religious. But that is the case, and we also have to admit that individuals are far greater and more remarkable than are quoted in sacred books. That is true of Christians, such as Jews, Muslims, Hindus. That is true of all of us. We as individuals, as individuals, are simply more complex than that. I suppose here that the reason why so many people in the community are somehow afraid of too many Muslims in Iceland, or too much of some foreign religion or such is that people assume that they will never change their minds or that they can be unconvinced about the integrity of liberal democracies. I know this from very personal experience by talking with hot Muslims and zealous Christians about liberal democracy that it can be a little tricky. Such reasoning is complex, often emotional, and time - consuming, and when you talk to someone about religion or, for example, about it. The rights of homosexuals in relation to beliefs are quite expected to be unchangeable. They need to think about it when they go to sleep, when they wake up, when they shower, and they're cooking the food and what they're doing, and they're just wondering about it before they change a basic world movie or what's supposed to be a basic picture. It also leads me to another role of religion in people's lives. It is very different, as we should know here in Iceland, where the majority claim to be Christian. How many Icelanders really read the Bible or attend church on Sunday? Not many of the people I know, a respectable president, could be more, I'm very into it because people learn only about Christianity, though only to learn to doubt a little more than it is another story. You see, religion is also a cultural phenomenon. People claim to be Christians because they have some general approach to ethics that does not necessarily have much religious support, not necessarily on certain verses of the Bible or the Koran, but on cultural characteristics. Take, for example, the forgiveness that I feel is on the decline in Iceland. There are reasons for this and the very content of a new discourse at one time or another. While there is undoubtedly something in the vast majority of communities, no doubt all of them in any form, as well as emphasis on forgiveness and why it is practitional and good, it is generally viewed as forgiveness, love, the search for the truth, and these profound values in general come from the religion that they grow up in, no matter what religion it is. Muslims believe that these values come from Islam, Christians believe that they come from Christianity, and Jews believe that they come from Judaism. In fact, it is a mutual value that all of us have. If we find an excuse for holding those values in our religion, then we in general are willing to accept that religion. That doesn't mean we're willing to go all the way to Leviticus or any other chapter in the Koran to invent a penal law and set up general penalties, that's not the same thing, at least not a country, but it's actually in Saudi Arabia, but I'm saving the fistula about it. I'm here to discuss the role of religion and cultural influence on liberal democracy. I think it's okay to open up that discussion, I'm not afraid of it, but I notice that other people are a little scared of it, that they're afraid to be called Rasistar or something like that. Then I'd like to point out good people: Prejudice is easy. They are instinctive. Really, we can do little to experience prejudiced emotions, that is just part of how our mind works. For this reason, I recently discussed the law of police. It is easy to get lost, get too drunk, get involved, or believe in other things. Even when people say they believe something, they often mean something far different from what the listener hears. It is prepared as part of a discussion about religion, cultural influence, and value. Then we need to accept each other, here in this hall, in our community, as well as with people who move here to a country of culture that differs from our world. We should not be afraid of this, and we should be sure to do so. That discussion is no contradiction to offer a welcome person. At least then, we are keeping our attention to what we are really talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. Gunnarsson It's always interesting to listen to what happened. A senator. I'm not good for discussing religious matters, I have to admit it, and especially religions that I'm not well acquainted with. I can frankly admit that I have developed a growing interest in an explanation of Bible publications and find great joy in studying them. But that conflict between civilizations is what took place. A senator was talking about. I'm interested in his view of the concerns that can be identified in our neighboring countries, especially in Dana's. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator would look at some of the evidence I've been quoting here, and he would see how much these concerns are. [[The president calls.]] My question is, doesn't he give anything to worry about?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u117	A respectable president. I'm much more concerned with the rise of Neospian and right conservatives, such as. correspondent in Hungary, Poland, and the United States It is the forces that detract these days from liberal democracy values in the so - called Western world. I'm simply more concerned about those forces. It is the conservatives who are in power. I am very hostile to any ideas, religious or otherwise that are contrary to liberal democracy. But if I put a cold estimate on where the threat is in real life, it doesn't lead me to the doctrine of Islam. I know that I'm not a single senator in all of Europe who'd like to join the waabasma, I looked for about a year, couldn't find anyone. However, there are plenty of members of the council, too much of those who favor the ideologies of liberal democracies, which come from the right, usually Christian. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't matter who religion is, the threat I see comes from the Neophases rather than from Islam, at least not at the present time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u118	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. For Dana, it is as if they have decided - and it is, in effect, a multicultural arrangement - there were four groups that worked together before the present government began, and now the Danish party of this group - has become part of that group - the elimination of these figures. Because of politeness, they are now called in Danish, U.S.A., a meeting that we can call later members of the Icelandic community. I've got numbers on this. They talk about Ghetto and the hard stuff. Calculating ablets were estimated to be 13 and less difficult to deal with were 15 years old. [[The president calls.]] They intend to eliminate these Ghettos, including them. with organized houses cut down so that they all will be gone in 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u119	A respectable president. From what I know about the methods used in Denmark, they seem rough to me, I find them harsh. I don't feel that the emphasis on what might have gone better at first is missing. That's a question. The members of the Central Party have a lot to ask, but they do not answer it the way I do. I find it extremely important that the people who come here, the trustees, or the code-keepers, have full opportunities to adapt to Icelandic society and help with it. That's why I'm here for the bill we're talking about right now. That's why I don't understand why. Senators disagree. The argument that men have come forward, which I have heard now a million times, cannot resist my opinion, I disagree. Congress on the impact of the bill. The question we should ask ourselves is, How do we promote liberal democratic values in general? How do we teach our children the best? [[The president calls.]] How do we make sure that they are best reflected in our community, in our legislation, and certainly when it comes to people from outside? [[The president calls.]] Foreigners are just no exception. In general, I feel that education about liberal democracy needs to be given, and then there is no need to be specifically addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u120	Mr. President. I've said that before, I'm going to say it again, "I admire what you're doing." A senator speaks deeply religiously, considering that as far as I know, he is an atheist. It is noteworthy, however, that I just wanted to suggest that I do not recall in this discussion that I have usually heard about religion except by reason of it. Senator. We've been talking about how here all kinds of people are. In fact, the person quoted earlier said that even though they experienced much persecution, very few Christian refugees had found their way here. I kind of want to ask you what. A member of the council what brings this religious climate into this discussion where religion has not been discussed here, not in the light of what I have heard, and I have observed quite well today. We are simply talking about the subject. We're talking about treating people who got them decently, and we want to do it in a decent way, so we can get some decent out of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u121	A respectable president. I think I'm stuck in the boil. I have, for example. Hear a talk from your mouth. Birgir Þórarinsson's wife, who primarily talks about cost and perhaps technical issues that I wouldn't necessarily mix with. Then I've heard speeches for what? paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant. It is very clear to me, especially after reading an article that he referred to in his talk, that this is what is really behind it after all. Why are people afraid to get here a lot of people? It is about the fear of cultural divisions and cultural differences of some kind after all. Once we have taken into account the debate about financing, we will find that we can solve that problem, even if we would not solve it, the government fund is not going to go over the subject. It's just not like that. It's not coming here too much people, more people than we can handle, nowhere in the future. These explanations of fear do not quite stand. In particular, I'm going to refer to a court case. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant when it is time to do so. It's all in the background. It's what people don't have the guts to talk about for a number of reasons, and that's why I'm calling it here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm stuck in the boil.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u122	Mr. President. That may be the problem. A senator has stabbed a boil, but there's nothing coming out of it. I noted earlier that 20 years ago we were unable to educate children of newcomers who were then arriving in Iceland, and they sure haven't had a easy life. During those 20 years, it has been observed that the caution stakes there sounded true. There's no fear of that. As I have said in the past many times, Middleclass people are not afraid of foreigners. Some of us are talking to foreigners every day, just letting go. Hv. A senator is creating some kind of image that doesn't make sense. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator: Does he not think - because he says that there is never too many people who will come, etc. - that we should have a proper reception for those who come here, that their children will have the opportunity to get their feet in society, and that the masses will be no more than we can handle the role of caring for these people properly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u123	A respectable president. Yes, I think it's very important that we take good care of people who come here and help them get better into the community. I support this bill because there's a factor in it, unlike what's happened. The members of the Central Party I've heard speak so far. I have to admit, I didn't hear every speech. A senator earlier, so I can't discuss what I was talking about in relation to her. My subject may be discussed at a time. There's nothing for a senator. I just don't know it. But I also see in the Department of News News, I see it on Facebook discussions, I hear it on the street, a respectable president, that people are afraid of foreigners who are very different from us, who have a very different view of how life and society work. Although I count that fear very often based on prejudice, if not often, I still understand it. I get it, and I think it's okay that we just deal with it and find the solutions that are possible in Iceland at this point. They're not too many people. [[The president calls.]] The cost is a bad use of funds that we could use better, but it is not about to go into the state's budget. [[The president calls.]] This is what I think is behind this general fear that there is too much here of some kind of people who, according to my opinion, have nothing in common with Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, of course, was special as he was one, and he had a little religious in his presentation in this case, which is somewhat special because it does not refer directly to the fine language. But what I wanted to ask you is why. A senator entered, and indeed I must make a note of his case before, or whether it was earlier today, since he only entered the Catholic Church and Poland. I thought he weighed to the Polish community here. Poland is naturally a very important culture, and there are thousands of Poles. I could sense his words that he was a little attacking the Polish Church, the Catholic Church. I don't think that's quite appropriate. But what I wanted to come in and ask. A senator that -- I see the time is up, it's very short, but then it can go. A senator might respond to what I said about the Polish church, whether it is correctly understood that he was roading to the Catholic Church and, in particular, the Polish Church. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u125	A respectable president. When Samherji was criticized at the time, it was called an attack on the Samaritan staff. It is an old trick to direct criticism somewhere else. I criticize the Polish government and, yes, the Catholic Church, when any political or political government, church or society, or individual or whatever, works systematically and consciously against liberal democratic values. This has been done by the authorities in Poland, and we are to protest it, and we have suggested that it be spoken against. Throughout history, the Catholic Church has had a very negative impact on, such as. rights of gay women and rights. It's just a historical fact, a respectable president. I don't like it. How I feel about the church as such has nothing to do with it beyond that in political context. But in the political context, it is our job here to protect the rights of the citizens and to promote a liberal democracy, and there is no institution so holy or remarkable that they will be allowed to walk in a liberal democracy without any criticism from Porta members of Congress on it, so that it is absolutely clear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no criticism above them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u126	Mr. President. I would have liked to respond to this, but I'm going to use the time, he's so short, to get to the inquiry I was going to ask him why. Senator to. The adjustment seems to be quite consistent. A senator came in earlier. Today, it has become a policy in Denmark that refugees who have come to the country from war - torn lands will return to their homeland when the situation allows. Well, now, for example. former emigrant minister in Denmark wrote a fistula to social media, pointing out that now the people of refuge who came from Syria, and Denmark began to be prepared to leave the country. This has developed a variety of reactions, some positive, some negative, in Denmark. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's opinion is that when conditions improve in his country, pressure from local governments will come, i.e. Where the person lives, that he may return to his own country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u127	A respectable president. To the extent that it is more realistic, I believe that people should only be allowed to choose where they live. In case of a moment. A senator wants to move to Kenya or Georgia, so I believe it. It's up to a senator. It's my religion. That's why I don't think it's good, or it's just smart to be sending back people who's already in the community. What I think we should be talking about here, what I hope we can ever agree on, is the adaptation process we want to see. For example, I'm sure it's a mandatory study for people who move here, for the same reason that I normally believe they're required for children. There are only certain things that come from living in a community; you need to know how to read, you need to know a certain type of interaction, and you need to know society well enough to rot in it. In my opinion, this service should be compulsory and may be mandatory. We could keep her up. But we can't get there during the discussion because we're too busy talking about whether we want people here or on the other side. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I think, a respectable president, a boring place to stop the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Hrafn Hransson's Gunnarsson for his inspired speech, as it is hoped and directed. But I'm gonna let myself down, because now I don't know if I'm gonna get a chance to ask why. Again, a contort, asking only questions about the subject. I know I won't come to that empty cabin. Counts 'em out. A senator that a song like this can have a secondary effect, saying that this bill will be approved by Iceland to some extent a more acceptable option for application for international protection than at present? Counts 'em out. A senator who stops this bill from having a secondary effect, either on the number of applications or on financial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u129	A respectable president. In view of my declaration of support, this is just a perfectly normal question based on my speech. Of course, in general, I feel that when it comes to the subject, it can have some side effect, and I think it is worth considering. I've just examined it, and I've done a couple of tests. I've read this bill a few times in search of something that could have the effect of it. A senator describes. I just can't see it in this bill. There's some kind of knowledge delivery and guidance and something like that. I just can't believe there'll be some sort of special yellow root for people abroad. First, I think that these people just don't know the system well enough, and if they know it well, they'll never get deep into some discussion. It would be easier for some smuggler simply to lie and say that there are some gold and green forest for anyone who wants to come rather than go to some legal thing about how rural society is informed by some institution in Iceland. I just don't see anything in the bill that would cause the effect. A senator mentions. [[The president calls.]] According to this, it's quite possible that the bill would have this effect if it wasn't what I'm not doing in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. Maybe then I'll follow through. Hv. A senator noted that there could be a position where the approved bill would have a secondary effect on other factors than those discussed. I'm not going through any pitfalls to worry about how the bill's impact will be that the cost will be increased by a number of things not mentioned in the bill. In general, I'd like to ask you why. A senator's opinion is that he is most likely to be directly involved in the number of applications. According to the senator, what change in the system would result? Well, then I'm not asking for an answer, since it was a direct payment for the arrival of the country or something like that. [[The president calls.]] What does that count? A senator that would affect the number of applications in order to change the rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u131	A respectable president. I don't trust myself in that diagnosis in a minute. I think there are a lot of factors that make that decision, especially simply the distress that is present with people somewhere else where our systems have nothing to do with it, e.g. correspondent in Syria Another factor that affects this is the national legislation. I believe that it is a huge mistake on the part of European nations in general to constantly try to prevent people from reaching them, of course, with a different kind of pressure. That is why there are super - pressures in isolated places, in several million people, such as Sweden, perhaps nine million people or so, when the same pressure could have occurred in 500 million people, and then it would just have just been everywhere, and it would have been no problem. The mistake in my mind is that they do not get the stress out of Europe properly. That's the mistake, for example. Denmark and Sweden and the European countries in general have already done and done so. The members of the Central Party seem to be suggesting that we do likewise. The pressure will still be there. These people will still need a refuge somewhere. [[The president calls.]] This will continue to be a problem, a respectable president. That word of speech, by my knowledge. The members of the Central Party simply do not agree to solve the problem. The problem's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u132	A respectable president. I had planned to take another subject of this talk, but I want to add only what I came into my last talk, which has to do with these financial issues. It has been noted in previous talks that the solution to these issues is to keep all of this as open as possible. Some have gone so far as to speak as close as possible to a completely open border that I think would be completely irresponsible, and we would simply never be able to handle it. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son came in earlier, and that would make all the welfare systems we've gotten used to in the form we've known. The reason I want to come back on financial issues is not the norm. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson here in answer just moments ago. A senator said that he had taken a look at the matter and concluded that there was no more cost to the case than any sensitivity. Now I am speaking, not directly to the senator, but materially. There would be no cost as far as it could go. A senator could see that it was secondary to this bill's approval. I doubt that many people simply rely on that opinion, but I do not question it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson read the bill more than once. I may have doubts about what to eat. A senator with financial influence. I wondered, " Is there no basis for this? ' The welfare committee will consider this. If, in reality, there is a clear greater part here for the agreed case, it should not be a problem to consider the case between 2 and 3. and trying to make some cognitive assessment of what the cost would be, draw up a range of scenarios, because it's so fast to run into numbers. We are here day out and day in and out about a couple of hundred million, and as we know, the cost in the past year was just about 4 billion. It has been observed here in our discussion that the actual cost, taking into account the pressures of the welfare system and the streets, is much closer to the quality of the world than to 4 billion, though it is difficult to detect the depth. Yet, these numbers, or large, are still ahead of us. I would think it would be wise to do so. A welfare committee considered the matter between the 2nd and 3rd. and tried to bring to council members, who truly have doubts that there is some sense in the expense estimates presented here, some material that might calm us against the impact that we believe is likely to be of this bill's approval. When each candidate for international protection, sheltering, it usually costs 6 billion. K. This year, it turns out it's fast to run into numbers. It is not long done, I allow myself to assert, draw up scenarios of potential effects, just from evolution to form in various countries we know best of when systematic changes have been made. I'd like to encourage you. a member of a welfare committee to consider whether it is not right to call the case between 2 and 3. to further guide the views that should have been dealt well with in chapter 6 of the bill. [[The president calls.]] Of course, much is missing. I think it would be good for a man to attack him to explain this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u133	Mr. President. During my first talk, I discussed the financial side of the case. The bill expects them to send messages to the community and the international community perhaps most likely, as the bill says, by permission of the President: The main change in the Enlightenment involves the development of a wider role in the development of a coordinated host of refugees and the importance of promoting the Agency so that it can handle this project. It is necessary that the Agency located in Iceland will also have a work station in the capital area where people applying for international protection will stay close to all in the capital area or in the South. The representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany will need to meet with the refugees and present them with an offer for a receptional society. That's what we've been arguing with. Candidates for international protection should receive services comparable to those in the host country. This will increase the cost in much and much more than this bill alone, since it is expected to increase only two jobs in the United States. We think it's totally wrong. Our content is, in short and simple, this: It is being sent out a message, the wrong message to the international community, and the refugees who will make the decision to go to Iceland rather than to any other country because it is all a lot better and better than anyone else. This will add to the problem. The problem's good enough. It involves our spending of several billion each year to the jury, and never to be anticipated, Mr. President, in advance, how much money is paid to the jury. There's never gonna be. We sit and hope that the problem will be reduced, that the smaller ones here apply for international protection, but year after year we have seen that the problem has increased. Expenditures have increased, and in very many cases, the organisations applying for international protection here are referred to, in effect, that their applications are unfounded. These expenses are in a way that we cannot accept them. We cannot accept that this is a single class of activities beyond any other set of subjects we address here, which is a conservative policy and goals, as well as other things to take into account. But in this group of subjects, it is different. That's where it's open. In fact, we do not know in advance how much money goes to the jury because we do not know how many people come here and ask for international protection. By means of the bill, we feel that the problem is being improved and sent out the wrong message into the international community. I was going to talk about other things too. I'm going to talk about policy, too, and I already did. In Iceland, there seems to be no direction to this group. The political parties have no policy in this series of issues. Pirates have a course, yes, they do, they have a course. They want to offer as many people, most of them to the country, to have really open and that's the problem. That would be their solution if I correctly understood their point of view. I'm also going to talk about it, starting with my first talk, organized criminal activity. A few days ago, this was adopted at my council request for a report from the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, that it would tell the council what has been done in organized crime over the past few years, that it would repeatedly identify the danger of developing organized crime in this country and that it would be a real threat to society if it was allowed to grow unconcerned, as it has been in the past few years. The report suggests that a minister will report to the council whether there has been an emphasis on raising the number of law enforcement officers who are investigating organized crimes and supporting them more fully. It also discusses whether a passenger-list analysis on the border watch has been identified by the diagnostic department in its reports, whether a minister has taken action on that issue, and whether police research measures have been cleared or increased. The reports of the analysis department have pointed out that research measures in this country are narrower than those in many other countries and that largely the hands of the police are tied. We're asking for the highest. A minister will tell us if she has taken some action in this regard. We also request a report on the highest level. A minister has taken action to facilitate the expulsion of foreign persons, who become aware of crime related to organized crime. We also ask this old question about the growth of the general police. The police have been calling for decades to increase the number of citizens in general. This has resulted in the efforts of the police, which is a very important factor in preventing the types of crime that these gangs may do most, i.e. Drug sales, production, and other things. Crimes such as misapplication and menialals are usually discovered only if police initiatives arise, i.e. that she picks up and researches. This is not usually based on announcements. So the police's basic watch is very important, and we ask for the ultimate. A minister will tell us if she has promoted police initiatives and increased the number of general police officers. We also ask the highest. Ministers to whether there have been measures to prevent people who are seeking international protection in Iceland, and then we've come into this situation a little bit, perhaps because of a lack of social status - like many of the people who are coming here, they have a very poor social status - to be abused and oppressed by various means, such as a man trader, and whether the highest level. A minister has taken some action to prevent this or whether any action is planned in this regard to work against it. Of course, refugees are in a very poor position, and it is easy for parties who either help them come to the country or receive them to abuse their position in this country as well as in foreign lands. We request that the council be informed whether the minister has taken some action in this regard. Finally, we have requested that a minister inform whether she has taken action to prevent criminal organizations from misuseing public services, as the report of the research department, which is then part of organized activities. It refers to reforms, employment services, a welcome system for refugees and systems that handle candidates who apply for international protection in this country and to a number of social services available. The police analysis department has evidence that some of these criminal organizations abuse these systems. Of course, it is important that we be informed in a thorough report from the highest level. Minister. We cannot be known for putting all this money into a system that is later abused by careful crime groups, whether domestic or foreign. Obviously, we cannot show responsible financial policies and see it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u134	Mr. President. It is thus stated that in Denmark the government is equal under the leadership of Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and one of the main roses in the buttons of that government is thought to be the policy and the bill now available for the Danish National Assembly on the authority to take the refugees to a reception center outside of Europe. Mette Frederiksen has described that she feels that it is best that no one comes to Denmark to take refuge. The Danish government places great emphasis on the bill, but it has been found to be critical, e.g. in reviews of institutions like Amnesty International. It is claimed that the Danish government's policy on authority is to take security officials to a reception station outside Europe includes lack of empathy, inhumaneness, and take away the right to take refuge. The minister of this legal class in the Danish government is equal to Mattias Tesfaye, who wrote a article on the Internet journal altinget. I'm going to take a few words on this branch of the minister of dance because it contains a sort of defense against the criticism expressed by people like Amnesty International. According to the Danski minister, it is generally mandatory for Danmerk and other countries to contribute to the provision of the necessary medication, access to running water, and the possibility of children going to school. In the light of our humanitarian views, we have responsibility, he says. The minister will insist on his answer by adding that the trustees and refugees do not demand a future in the Western European welfare state, and he adds: we are not responsible for millions of inhabitants. Under such circumstances our community cannot stand, says the minister. It is for this reason that the Danish government proposes to take care of the welfare and protection of refugees in a country outside Europe or beyond the European Union, as he put it. Apparently, the minister feels that the welfare system cannot tolerate open or semi-open borders. But this may seem to be wrapped up in some people, must be said. The minister feels that these measures will lead to a significant decrease in the number of inmates on the dance floor and this saves money and will provide additional funds to help more people in their homes, and more refugees will be protected from risking their lives on a voyage across the Mediterranean Sea. The minister of Danski concludes his article by dismissing the government's proposal as a lack of empathy. He backs up that claim by saying that more than half of those who come to Europe did not need protection. At present, there are some 1,300 respondents in Denmark. Each year it costs about $300,000 a year to hold it up and dismiss it. So says the minister, animalistic and unsatisfying. The figure is equal to over 6 million. K. Icelandic. He says: We help people in tens of thousands of numbers, but they do occur across dance borders, and most of them rarely draw the same attention from home as do the eternal debates about people who have been able to reach Europe and Denmark and the media, and I allow myself to add. Little narrow vision, says the minister at the end of his article.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u135	Mr. President. I'm going to continue with what I talked about earlier, i.e. what we can learn from the experience of the northern countries in dealing with immigrants and refugees. I traced some of the development to Sweden, Sweden's policy has, in effect, made it possible for many immigrants to not adapt to Swedish society and to hold on to practices that they have been raised up in their own countries. According to a poll made by a company named Eurobarometer in 2018, 73% of Sweden thought that the adjustment of refugees had not been successful. That is a very high proportion compared to the large number of immigrants living in Sweden, who have become 20% of the population of Sweden. In the same survey, 61% of Swía believed that immigrants had caused an increase in crime in the country. The question is, What can we in Iceland learn from this experience in Sweden? I believe, Mr. President, that we must take these things seriously as we look to the neighboring countries that have much longer and more experience in this group than we do. We have very little experience in this case group. It's been a few years since here, the number of inmates we're looking at has begun to arrive. This is where we are looking at a development that has lasted for decades in Sweden. If we consider what we can learn from Swía's experience, we first see the importance of this category of policy management to avoid the high political costs of many countries and other European countries in recent years. In fact, there's no direction in this category. It's got to be said right now. Second, the direction of this category must be developed on the basis of an accurate view of its likely influence on the preservation of the people's cultural resources that have been shaped by common experience and our history for a long time, as well as the inspiration of foreign sources. The course must be shaped a little by that, too. A free flow of people cannot be a goal in themselves if a particular objective is made that will eventually lead to all nations being cast into the same mold. Of course not, Mr. President. I think most people would agree on that. Third, make arrangements to allow immigrants to adapt quickly to the culture, customs, and customs of our society. I also think that most people agree. In this context, it is not unusual to make the requirement that governments regularly publish details about the results of such adaptations. Fourth, I realize in these matters that it is important that the government regularly examines the public's view of policy in this issue. Well, it's the public that's supposed to have the last word in these matters. Fifth, and at the end, it is wise to have the humanitarian assistance of the Icelanders who are intended to help refugees in distant continents primarily aim to enable them to live as close to their homeland and culture as possible. That's what we've been talking about in the middle class, and we've emphasized in this regard, to help as many as possible close to home. [[The president calls.]] This is the main thing I wanted to say about Sweden and what we can learn from Swedish experience in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u136	Mr. President. By the end of the day, I was putting in touch with the development of the North countries and explaining that the bill we're discussing here is a loss to put the government's policy on the edge. This is not a major policy compared to the development of another part of our environment. It's a perimeter policy. In Denmark, the latest development in Sweden, which has formed an alliance to make changes, is a coalition extending from center to right in the case of Sweden. In fact, it has to be noted that Swedish peers, led by Prime Minister Stefán Löfvens, have also said that the current arrangement has failed, but they want to make other changes. In any case, however, there is a counter-regulating policy with what Iceland's government preaches here. To put this into context, I think it's a good idea to simply look at, starting with at least, the course of a Danish peer as it appears on the printed page from them. I'm going to read a few sentences to begin with the introduction of a dance course of this class and a reminder of it, and it's a key point in this context, that this policy is based on the opposite direction toward what is being done here, where refugees must be directed into a legal, safe course, preventing or preventing them from seeking the counsel that the Icelandic government promotes, and unfortunately, all too often means that people are looking for dangerous crime. Introductory words in the course of a Danish company sound like this, with President's permission: ▪ The Danmark must decide for itself no matter how many non - Western foreigners will be welcomed. We can't do that today. As an agent, you want to change this by picking up an annual roof, and we want to set up a welcome station outside Europe. So they state that it must, of course, be done within the framework of international agreements and with the human spirit that they now explain, as follows: In Denmark it should no longer be possible to find a quick sanitarium. - That's what Danish officers say, Mr. President. Instead, Danir has to welcome the vagrants. In other words, it is first emphasized that those willing to come to Denmark and take refuge should follow legal and safe paths. In addition, a brief history of the dance system's well - being system and its structure is associated with the importance that those who move to the country themselves need to adapt to Denmark's culture and values so as to be able to participate in the system designed to ensure the well - being of all. But then it says: All too many have gone to Denmark without becoming part of Denmark. It does not promote cohesion. And then, when many immigrants, especially women, are at home instead of working, it means not only that they find it harder to adapt to Danish society but also that they have financial consequences. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the public's net spending for foreign immigrants and descendants was $33 billion in 2014. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. The context of what I had started to read now breaks, but I understand the point. The President can't add the five minutes I have in place for this round.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u137	A respectable president. I used to speak in advance only over what I believe to be an elephant in the room, and what is behind the fears of many in Iceland, about the fact that there are too many refugees, too many foreigners in general. There is fear of some kind of cultural diagnosis or that people who come here will not become part of the community. Other people's reaction. The members of the Central Party at my talk earlier were a little in the way that there was no talk about religion here, no one was talking about Muslims. Why is this Pirati coming up here talking about religion that he at the same time preaches such religious experience that no one has any place in politics? But I wondered about it in the light of a talk. The senator of any cultural group he's talking about, whatever people he hasn't adapted to, according to him, did not adapt well enough because there's only one cultural group that's prominent in all this and that is Muslim, and that is, in particular, Islamic doctrine and its concern for its influence on society, government, and culture. Of course, there are other cultural influences, but they are likely to come from the same direction. There are other groups of people who have suffered. A senator knows of things that could be part of that group. A senator dealt with Denmark?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u138	Mr. President. Now I don't know what it is. A senator missed my introductions, but I was here reading from the direction of the local dancers. I don't know why. A senator expects me to define exactly what dance partners mean by cultural groups, but I imagine, if I am going to experiment, that it is all about their intention that those who want to move to Denmark and become participants in a Danish community will be fine with a dance cultural tradition about things such as democratic liberality and the values of Denmark. The values, in their own opinion, Mr. President, of Denmark's characteristics, have much in common and perhaps most of those that identify Iceland, but not entirely. But sociologists expect those who move to the country to conform to their culture and values. I have lived in Denmark, Mr. President, and despite showing at times a measure of independence and a reminder of Iceland's independence struggles and perhaps being different, I sought to show respect for Danish culture and their customs. But first, what? A senator has appointed me to guess how the Danish socialists define their culture, I assume that it means that those who want to move to the country and become members of the community show proper respect for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u139	A respectable president. Respect, that's what interests me. You see, I can agree that I expect people to live and work in harmony with liberal democracy, and I don't care whether they are foreigners or Icelanders or what. I don't care if it's for religious reasons or just plain conservativeness or paradox that people don't want to adapt to liberal democracy values. For me, it may not be so much about whether people eat this or the other food, dress like this, or have some habits that may have little or nothing to do with liberal democratic values. That's an extra point in my mind because I want to see a community that's diverse, I think a wide variety of communities are rich. It needs to be a common basis, and this common basis is a liberal democracy. But whether or not people adapt to cultural traditions such as, for example. that what jokes it laughs or what stories it says - to me, a respectable president, this is much more a question of how we manage to live well enough about these liberal democracy values so that all kinds of culture can enjoy on that basis. The only group I know to make sure that some dominant fear exists in this context is Muslims. Actually, it's another group, it's just not made up of foreigners or tourists. There are Christian conservatives, a respectable president, such as. correspondent in Hungary, Poland, and to some extent, when trying to go further toward liberal democracies, e.g. by giving women greater self - determination rights over their own body. Classic democracy value, or so you'd have thought. A respectable president. I don't expect an answer from what. Senator, I have no other question. But it intrigued me. I think it's important that if we worry about some cultural or political thing when it comes to other people who come into our country, we should just talk about it out loud. [[The president calls.]] I'm not afraid of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u140	Mr. President. First thing. A senator didn't ask me to answer. Try to keep the answer brief. I heard that I had managed to reduce my anxiety a little. The candidate for this reading, Mr. President, and this, in fact, is going to be a little clearer as the process goes on, this is no other requirement than the fact that those who wish to participate in a Danish community agree to fundamental values. Actually, I haven't noticed anything about eating bacon or any other dance food, but I think I'm worried about it. The senator's view of these basic values, for Denmark, for at least And then maybe Iceland, too, could be unfounded. But as time passes, this will become clearer. However, with regard to religious teachings, there is no problem. But now that I have less than a minute to complete the answer, I'm not going to get involved in a religious debate. A senator. But that's a very interesting subject, and I'll agree with it, the impact of religion on society culture and development. I would love to talk about this, but there's no room for that now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u141	A respectable president. I just want to get involved in this discussion. I've been able to keep track of her today and, of course, even when things have come in here in the early stages. Besides other jobs that a politician may have learned about the refugee dimension, I felt that it was proper for me to come up here and discuss this matter. As I understand it, it's really more of a matter than the headline and the text indicates. Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that I don't like to explain the role of the National Park. I think it's always good to explain the role of the institutions as the State or the localities or others who are on their side or who support or hide some government. It's necessary to explain it, so in itself I have no objection to the fact that it is clear. Besides, I have no objection to the way a multicultural facility handles personal information, how it can access such information, etc. I think that's good too. I don't think it's too bad if these important functions are insecurity or uncertainty. But what I can't agree with is, I'm just going to give examples and numbers from last year, that the more than 630 people who were allowed to live in Iceland, came as inmates, should get the same service as the people who were in the country. To me, these are two different groups. I'm not going to go to generality because, of course, there are people who really need a asylum, but I don't think there's anyone like that. I think we're supposed to concentrate on the hosts as I think many North countries do, at least give Danir a note with it and possibly follow more. I think it's a little special to set up a matter of Congress, which makes it quite clear that the cost of providing a much better environment is said to be some 24 million, but it's much higher. If 716 persons, instead of 85, cost about 6 million a person, if they are all individuals, that will cost at $5 billion instead of costing some 500 million if it was just the codemen. I think it matters. I also feel that as soon as we give these fine people increased rights, they'll be asked out, of course. For good reason, the Norwegians went on their way to advertise: Don't come to Norway. Or how was the advertisement they published? There are men, people, organizations that make up people, some of whom are in need, while others in search of something else, to other countries, and to profit from it. Today's talks included campaigns or buttocks that take place, including Spain and other countries, where these crime groups are being tried. Then we should not go along with saying, " Welcome as many people, and it's easy to get a living permit and a top service. ' It's that mine knows what's happening here. I haven't heard anyone object that it's true, i.e. That the individuals who have had less service than the greeting are now moving up a class, if you don't mind me saying, but maybe it's ugly to say, moving up into the service package given to the party. I felt, and I have to use the term, Mr. President, for there was an experience, although she did not necessarily enjoy it, at all, visiting as the minister of two refugee camps, both in Palestine and in Jordan. It has to be said, as it is, that the large majority of the population of people from Syria was exemplary in the way that the Jordan especially lived with them. There were most women and children, unfortunately. I'm sorry, but they didn't know where the sons or their husbands were, soon at war or died in the war. But I don't remember talking to one person in that refugee camp who didn't want to go back to Syria, who didn't want to be there. That is why we should prepare to accept people who truly need people so that, as Danir seems to think, we can make it easier for them to get back to their homes. However, I believe it is safe to admit that tens of thousands or more young men who have sought refuge in Europe from various countries are not necessarily looking for a place to live in. I'm not gonna make a statement, but we'll see that there are problems. I don't mean to argue directly with you, but I think I read somewhere that a German politician said that the so-called population policy didn't work out. We can also see this about the problems established by the government in Sweden and Denmark. No matter how our heart feels, all we need is to watch news or to read blogs. I'd like to add, Mr. President, that, of course, we know people who live in these lands as well. We even have family ties with individuals who live in lands where some kind of state has developed, where trustrs and others have arranged for thousands of people to have some form of government. That's what I think these countries are trying to get out of. Then, in Iceland, some decades will open up the possibility that there will be such a thing in Iceland. That's one part of it. That my knowledge is to examine the overall context, the total law on all these matters, and create a wise course that we can try to achieve. To me, we should try to help those who really need help. Let us help them and leave money to help as close as possible to their homes, for that is what these fine people want. On one occasion, I visited the United Nations Refugee Organization, and at that time, children with no escort were greatly involved in the discussion. It was noted at a meeting with the manager of the ideal institution that it was not very cool to welcome up the familyless children. This moved them to go into the world, where they would experience all kinds of violence, abuse, and so on, in the form of manalion among robbers and traitors and criminals. Of course, we should focus on trying to stop people from fleeing, but they are obviously bigger discussions and more than we are going to do here. I'd also like to say, Mr. President, that as Icelanders we must face the fact that we are often and frequent guests in other countries, we live there long or shorter, and must adapt to the environment in which we live. There's nothing to expect those here to adapt to our environment as we celebrate, of course, that there will be individuals and add to our culture, add to our economy, maintain our economy possible in some sectors. We must be happy, of course, but we must still want to control who comes here, for what and on what basis. To send the message that it's very good to come here as a trustee and get a permit here, it's not my place to know. We're also afraid to talk about these things. It bothers me to think that there are times when these things are not to be discussed or asked about, since there are some prejudices that are brought forward. I think that by asking and studying, we learn from what we've done before. I'm playing, for example. Is it interesting to know: Is an abnormally large part of the trustees who have been involved in the law? Can we ask that, Mr. President? Alternatively, e.g. Ask yourself, " Is there any social problems that are more common among the fine people here taking refuge? ' Do any organizations or classes experience threats that they have not lived in before? I just think it's all right to ask, that's not prejudice or premeditated viewpoints. This means just seeing what we have in our hands and what we can learn from it. Such problems may well have occurred, but I think we should get everything to the surface like this. There is no secret, therefore, that many Icelanders are concerned that these are problems that are not addressed or discussed. I imagine it's not right not to be handled with problems that arise, but I think it's about doing it, and I'm sure they're discussed. I'd also like to say, because it's only burned at me, that I feel very unnatural, and in fact, should deal more strongly with it, when the case of individuals is treated until the types of authorities, and even if they are not to be put out of the country, if they are walked or just acknowledged that they can be taken by individuals or families and hid in their basements. I don't think that's okay. In such cases, my knowledge should be accepted. Of course, I think these people want well, but mine doesn't know it's normal. I would also like to say that Icelanders have been diligent in traveling and settling in other lands. Tens of thousands of Icelanders are housed worldwide. I hope they do their part there. Then there is a large group of people from all over the world who have adapted well to our country, our nation. There's been a lot of suggestions, some new lessons for us, some fun for bringing into our country. It is enough to mention the tourism service, including all kinds of companies and ideas in caterers and the other things, something we don't want to go back with or miss. They're hard-working people who want to settle down here and pay their taxes and duties and be part of an Icelandic community. We are to welcome such individuals. I'm worried that as other countries disappear from the direction Iceland seems to be building, we're going this way. That's what worries me. Only religion and culture have been introduced here and there. I'm not going to get caught up in a deep religious conversation. I just don't care what people believe, just as I don't care exactly how people experience themselves, what kind of people are and what they are. To me, it's just no problem, everyone's equal, but we must respect each other. At any rate, when we move to a new place, I feel abnormal if someone wants to force their culture on all the existing ones. It's okay to share your culture, give it up and introduce it, I'm sure. But I think we're supposed to make the requirement that adjustments go well for us. Then I would like to state that, of course, people are not to throw their religion or culture or traditions or such. Humans can have that for themselves and for their families and for their community beyond what humans have to adapt to, that is not a question. However, I'm going to allow myself to say one thing, Mr. President: there are certainly examples, and we've seen recently in France that people fear extremes of faith. As soon as this is a delicate subject without any sense of religious hatred or anything like that, I think it's important to have the courage to discuss it. No matter what religion you believe, extremes, and violence is not to be tolerated. Of course, history is covered with blood in many religions, and especially with Christian faith, but it is also with others. Of course, the violence in the spirit of faith that we have seen in the past few years or decades will dishonor that faith. They are fanatics, and they often paint a picture of all the others who are so false. This has led to e.g. If I understand correctly, the French have taken decisive steps to deal with certain things that encourage fanaticism. Hopefully, we will not need to take such action. I'm not worried about that in this country, but we never know, Mr. President. I want to be able to live in a country where any prophet, any religion, any president, can be mocked, we want to have a community like that without facing any conflict. Of course, it is normal to observe moral standards and such things, but we must want to live in a society where this is permitted. So I back up to the case myself and leave these depressions, these dours that actually have nothing to do with it, I think it's very important that we approach some kind of overall picture and try to come to an agreement on some vision, if possible. If not, it is something we must face. On the other hand, it is necessary for us, as we do in so many other situations, to look around, to learn from what others are dealing with, and to deal with. At the same time that we want to limit our options or at least control those who come to this country, look for ways to increase our support in territories or with institutions aimed at enabling people to move closer to home because most people want to go back. Of course, there are other examples, but I am very concerned that when it becomes clear that all people here are having the same good service, exemplary service I mean, and if we don't expect to be able to handle the situation, we will not be able to handle it. I'm also worried that they're starting some kind of confusion with what groups are eaters, which groups are the trustees, etc. Is there a distinction? I think it's normal to be held that there are people who need help and most people want it as close as possible to home. [[The president calls.]] That's how we're supposed to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u142	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator about that, I want to live in a community where you can make fun that literally everything and actually, following the terrorist attacks in France against Charlie Hebdo at the time, we gave Pirantar a bill that was blessedly approved to eliminate 125. g. a general penal law against blasphemy. More than that, in 2015 we were not in liberal democratic values ourselves. Hv. A senator asked a few questions and asked if a certain group of members would appear, say, more in criminal numbers, and so on. My answer is yes, you can ask. But my answer is, when we get the answer, we should know what to do with it. Of course, people may be inclined to use such answers to fuel prejudice or hatred in general and may be drawn to primitive feelings, such as prejudice, that all of us have something to look after and take care of. You see, though, that these questions have been asked, and as an example, what motivates young men who are Islamists to search for terrorism? While there are, of course, diverse groups like all groups, these are a group of individuals who are deeply rooted in culture. They are too much Muslims for, say, the French community and too much French for Islamic society, they have nowhere to live, and do not feel welcome. That's why it's very important for me to welcome people. That's why I support this case, so that people don't get to know each other unless they come here in a culture that they may feel strange and are strange in some ways, but also so that people can find a way for their lives in society without getting stuck between. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm on the side of this case, and I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council to see if he will support the case as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u143	Mr. President. It's worth a lot of research. Why would anyone think of coming to Iceland, because, of course, we're really weird, first of all. A senator has begun to discuss it. I'm sure it's very exotic, and we're not supposed to force it into anyone, of course not. But that's different. I think of information that would come out of it, for example. to ask me just how much of those seeking refuge or such persons have gotten into trouble with the law or in something that comes up at child care or in school, something like that, to learn from it. First of all, I'd like to throw it up, it's not a very deep thought of me, whether people who get into this problem from something I don't know can adapt to a modern society. Maybe, maybe not. So, then, do we have to look to see if this group should be allowed in Iceland? Is there something in the reception that we need to fix? Is there a need for extra extra extra extra control of the groups that are allowed to become in this situation? I'm not worried that this will make some kind of hatred or anything like that. I think it can possibly eliminate prejudice when people see - we're not talking about calling individuals, but when we see the problem. I don't agree with this bill, and I can't accept it. That's because I really think and believe that, unfortunately, this is going to send a bad message to the great world that it's about to get to Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I also think we are taking steps that other countries are trying to get out of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u144	A respectable president. Just so I'll make it happen, not because I'm speaking at each other. A senator, but in view of the discussion, it is important to me that the threat of terrorism is just as a result of so - called white nationalists and independenceists. It is a tradition of terrorism in various European countries, but somehow we are less concerned about it, at least in the discussion. What I don't quite understand in the face of opposition. A senator on the bill is how we should help people adapt to Icelandic society. I can't find gold and green forests in this bill. This is about having advice and counselling so that people can seek the services they already have, e.g. From where they learn English or who can support you in learning English. There are plenty of people who know, for example. not that unions support it and help finance much of it, 75% if I remember correctly. There are factors like looking for a job, what does a jobseeker expect you to do in your CV and how to deal with the system and the like. These are the projects intended for this bill. I can't see how these projects work as some kind of yellow root for people who aren't even on the land to look at things that deep, let alone some criminals who wouldn't hold back from lying simply that there are gold and green trees, no matter what this bill says. You see, we're always accepting some group of people who come here themselves, the former 631 inmates. These people don't go away. There is no place to wait for 330 years when the United Nations can get it into the list of countries it can enjoy. [[The president calls.]] It's just there. We will always have to agree with this group, and then we must want to help it adapt. [[The president calls.]] We must want and can cost something, and that's what the bill is. I don't see how it's a carrot.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u145	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that, of course, you're right. A senator that there are terrorists everywhere and is damaged to remember the terrible events in Norway, U.S.A., or the explosions in Oklahoma, Timothy Mcveigh, or what was his name. These are just as crazy people, I'm just gonna say it that way, like Muslim terrorists or some other religion or some other way. We're good to go. I'd like to read here a little bit, Mr. President. This is the answer to a query at the General Assembly. It is alimony, December payment, child support, child support, game school, school meals, vacation home, school opening, sports and leisure activities, college after school, bus cards, special school support, Icelandic education, basic cost of nurserys, living rooms, community housing, telephone and Internet, health service, health evidence, glasses, dentists, psychiatry, etc. This is what we're doing for eaters today. We're saying that anyone who gets clearance gets all of this, too. I think this is a very good message for those who want to come here, whether they need it or not, and possibly for gangs to send people here. The yellow root is in there, as I understand it. I think the solution is we're supposed to give fewer visas. Do we need to strengthen the institutions that discuss these matters? Maybe we should. Is there a need for clearer rules? Possibly. Then we should explain. I understand, for example. that our legislation allows it to allow more delays and extensions than comparable legislation in other countries. Why are we doing so? Why do we not act in harmony with that? It's what I'm worried about, first of all, that the cost is off-limits and secondly that there are people who may not need it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u146	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is still with us here at the Hall of Congress. I commended him very early this evening for the first talk he gave today. In the same way, I will find that the talk he gave earlier was a real challenge. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson to nurture fear and prejudice. You see, Father Hallgrímur once said, with the permission of a president: "What remains of him now is against him, yet it had to come upon him. It says this in Passius steel, if I recall correctly. The problem is, it's so easy to see in others and for some reason that I'm completely secretive. A senator, such as a horse whisperer or something, in the words that we have had left behind today, the middle class members, some inconsistencies of things that are not there; a lack of alien spirit and a witness of religious prejudice. But in the same moment, there's a reason. A senator down to the largest national stock that has ever moved to Iceland, i.e. to the Polish community, and demeans the Catholic Church, which is its hysteria. She was the limp rope of the Poles under Communism, and in reality the Communists could not break them back like many others, because the Poles are independent and proud people with a great history. I felt so bad when I spoke to each other. Senator. It is one thing to be inspired by almost religious ideas, as he was in both discourses, but when you try to find some underlying tone that does not exist and make a speech interpretation of something that is not in it, it is not wrong. The discussion here today has exceptionally been perplexing, open and honest, except for one of the progressive members of the Convention, why. paritaprevir The village of Halla's Kristjánsdóttir, who immediately began in her introduction to a committee's office to talk about racialism and other things that have not been available in what has been discussed here today and yesterday. I am so sorry because listening to what was happening was very encouraging. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, however, is almost sad now because it is not good Latin, Mr. President, trying to raise suspicion, or rather said to sow suspicion and reap anger, fear, and despair. But that's what I thought was wrong. A senator is sowing his talk, and it is not good to sit in it. The discussion has been open and honest. We're not going down the road that we don't like this bill. We already declared and declared why; we want to avoid the situation that is beyond our control. We want to avoid developing such a situation that we cannot fulfill our commitment to those we accept. We don't want to create a situation where we can, for example. Not to ensure that the children of those looking here can be taught and adapted to Icelandic society, as I have noted in two talks that, unfortunately, the last 20 years have taken place. We don't want to repeat it. We want to be careful, Mr. President. But that's what happened. A senator doesn't seem to understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u147	A respectable president. I don't like what you're saying. A senator's speech at my speech was very peculiar if he sensed that I was promoting prejudice. I think that the phrase that I've repeated most of the times here and in this discussion is that people don't see religion as it is. Well, that was the whole point. It was the substance of what I mentioned, also about Islamic religion, that I can criticize her in the back and for and out of the more excellent knowledge, though I myself report it. But that doesn't mean I'm going to object to the arrival of Muslims. That's the point. It was the message. It doesn't matter with Catholicism; all the elements and institutions that fight liberal democracies are evil in my opinion and I'm going to criticize them. There, religious organizations, such as the Catholic Church, are probably the most powerful religious organizations in the world, not too sacred to get such criticism. Whether people like it or not, the Catholic Church, whether it is a religion or not, has worked systematically and consciously throughout all history against certain liberal democratic values, such as to form democratic thinking, in fact, independent thinking in general at the time, and sexual equality, against homosexual rights, and in many areas where HIV rages. And, more dignified President, the fact that the Catholic Church is loved by some people is no excuse. I don't think it fair to paint this legitimate criticism, based on historical, simplistic facts, as some hostility against the people who promote religion itself. It's not like that, and it was the whole point of my speech, a respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator may not make the difference between religion and the people who agree with it. A senator needs to examine himself rather than me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u148	V.E.G. President. In answer to what? Once again, a member of the council attacks his intolerance to the opinions of others and the lack of respect for people's standards, such as the one doing so. For that reason a nation, critical Islam, criticized the Catholic Church. However, I believe that I want to respect people's beliefs, religion, or atheism. I haven't done anything to get my bangs up, though. There's a senator standing here as an unbeliever. I have nothing against it, not anything, and of course respect it. I know, for example. that the Catholic religion is of great importance to the political fragment of the nation, just as I think that those who find their way here and favor with Islam will feel hurt if their faith is criticized. That's why I believe, Mr. President, that we should respect these opinions no matter what we think of them, because we find our way here, e.g. People who are strict Catholic or Islamic. And what does that have to do with us? Why do we need to show disrespect in some way or in some way? Why don't we take it into account that these people are there, and I think that's why. A senator himself said so today, didn't he? Why don't we just respect it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u149	A respectable president. Now I'm trying to understand why. A senator does not unfairly, but I do understand it so that if you criticize the efforts of religious institutions on homosexual women's rights and rights, you are not respecting people's right to religion or to religious beliefs. It's not like that, Mr. Honorable President. Respecting the right to an opinion does not mean that people need to hold back criticism of something as far - off as the gain of gay women's rights and rights, a respectable president. Organizations are not beyond the fact that people talk about what they do. If the Catholic Church does not want to talk about the rights of homosexuals and women, it can only be done so well. And the pope is not too holy to do so. No person or institution is too sacred for that, a respectable president. This is the freedom of expression that I could hear. A senator is trying to defend, the freedom of expression, which, by the way, I remember. A senator could not vote when we removed the prohibition against blasphemy from general penal law at the time, taking the initiative of what is being said here. I love to talk to you. The senator and the criticism of my conduct strangely, to say the least. But that's not my main point, a respectable president. The important thing is that people are not religions. I know politicians who are Catholic and who are very fighting for the rights of homosexuals and women. That's the whole point. People are not religions that promote religion. It is not an attack on people or nationality, my god, to criticize any religious ideas or religious institutions. It's a ridiculous, respectable president, completely ridiculous. Besides, of course, I thought it was a problem. A senator speaks something as if certain religious institutions or religions were just nationalities, and I cannot sign it, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] Fortunately, people are more diverse than they are. Our communities are not so uniform, we're not that simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u150	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator said today that we are all prejudiced. I thank him for revealing his prejudice here tonight because the Catholic Church, without my expertise in it, is not based on a woman's contempt or opposition to homosexuals, i.e. Her foundation today is not about that. [[What prejudice?]] It has been observed, last very recently on the pope's address. But from now on, that's what I was trying to get away from me. A senator did not understand - I can totally agree that I am not always clear when I try to explain things - that religion is a very important part of the lives of many people around here, any religion. I think we should be very careful about hanging together the individuals who have come here and what religion they believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u151	My exact point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u152	We're supposed to leave it alone. Therefore, I am sorry that when religion, e.g. These people, they don't respect the way I was talking about. It's about what it's like. A senator said that I was not consistent with myself in not wanting to reveal everything, because I objected to forbid blasphemy, perhaps because some things are sacred to me, but I cannot expect everyone else to have something sacred. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u153	Madam President. We will continue to discuss this bill. I'd like to go back to the report I mentioned earlier, which is about immigrants. I think it's a very remarkable piece of paper, and that's why I want to go back to it and take out more things that matter. For a long time, Iceland has been a uniform group, but it has greatly changed. From 3.6% in 2001 to more than 15% in January 2020, the percentage of immigrants from the population in the United States has continued to increase. A report published at the University of Akureyri shows that the objective of the study and a product report was to evaluate and improve the understanding of the changing composition of the population. This was done by examining the status of immigrants in the community in the light of language, employment, education, culture, and experience. The study also aimed to produce data that could be used in the compromise policies. We are now faced with a review of how we want to conduct our affairs with an increasing number of immigrants and how we will be able to meet more people. It requires a general public discussion, and it must deal with the opportunities and challenges that come with it. We are here calling for a reasonable discussion on the subject, anyway. We know that a transliterian committee has been working, but it seems inactive. At least that's not true. Early members of the council that this committee did not meet, which makes it appear inactive. One thing we need to discuss in this regard is that schools and school systems are very much concerned with how to adapt to the long - term community. If these adjustments do not work well enough, this can lead to a peripheral society of immigrants and they don't have the same opportunities as others. Not all of our rural areas have active policies, e.g. The training of immigrants, as shown in this study, is a little thought - provoking, if we can say so. If there are many, services may not be satisfactory. This means that teachers are harder to meet the needs of students, so we need to secure better support for teachers. Of course, teachers have knowledge of things that we need to do even more if we listen to the voices of those who expressed themselves in this study. There is something else that's going to come into it. True, teachers need to be effective teachers, but they also need to be able to meet the parents of these same children. It is claimed that modern technology is the key to successful adaptation of immigrants. It is important that, as I was only included in a talk earlier today, immigrants are not comfortable with the quality of the courses they attend. They say they can speak and understand Icelandic as well as if they had not studied. It's a big offense in my opinion, and I think we should stop there and do better, look, and even take out these classes. I'm saying I don't think there's anything to blame for the teachers. I think that's much more of the setting. Yet, immigrants are expected to know and speak Icelandic. In this study, Icelanders say that immigrants have a positive influence on society, and this is where cultural ties are important. It's very good to be seen. The report also says that there is a relatively low percentage of immigrants involved in civil society, but trust is high. What I'm pointing to here is that we are, as the situation is now, on the right track. Therefore, we need to pause to see if the path we address in this bill is best in order for us to continue on that course. But it also shows that according to what people speak better, they are more likely to participate in elections. I think this is an important point, and I think it's important that it turns out that it's our job to enable immigrants to participate fully in the community and, including elections, they have the right to vote. Finally, the report says that there has been some success in working so far, but we can do better, as I have said, and we should do better. Although I've been talking about immigrants rather than refugees, this does give us a certain impression that we're not doing well enough. The foundation isn't working well enough. I learned in a talk earlier today that the matter of those who are part of the trust - seeking system is well cared for. But I'm not as good at the fact that we're dealing with immigrants, and there's a danger that if we take more people than we can handle, we'll get more shrapnel and I can't believe we're going on that road. This applies even to those already here. It has to be ours to make such an effort and problem so that people have the opportunity to adapt to Icelandic society, people who come here most of them, but there may be obstacles. I'm recommending that we take a closer look at what we can do to make that possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u154	V.E.G. President. I'd like to give this talk a little bit. A discussion of the subjects' issues of international protection, which are commonly referred to as trust seekers, often calls for extreme reactions. Those who allow themselves to give warnings are often called all the bad names for the sole purpose of taking a careful step to the earth, as I discussed here in my first speech today. It's like our culture is an oppressive father's empire. You hear it all the time. This is entirely not true. Fortunately, we have achieved far in human rights. Here is a largely rule by which we must protect our values and expect those who come here and our own. Our system, especially our welfare system, has a range of endurance and no matter how well - meaning we are and how big a heart we have, we must protect it. It is our obligation to our ancestors and sisters who made up the welfare system that we work with today. They're jumping in groups of self-organized ideologies. If you're a ide, you'll believe everything you think. A group of people who are overly sensitive has little tolerance for opinions that are out of harmony with their own understanding. These people are overly sensitive to various rights, but they also forget that all of us have responsibilities. Sadly, such ones often fail to stand up to adversity and do not respect opposing views at all. Insensible people go along with them to accuse others of having strange motives. It's completely intolerable, the highest. President. No one here is going to be accused of that, and we have to have the courage to discuss it. The issue that has been discussed, not for so long, seems to produce reactions, but the reaction is mainly in one direction. Where are the others? Do they not dare to accept the discussion, or have members of the council been classed that they dare not express themselves? Do we really want things that way? Has freedom of expression become secondary, and right thinking has become the only thing allowed, tops. President? And I ask the following, Where are the members of the rest of the Party of Independence? Where are the senators of the forward party? Where are senators left green? Where are the members of the United States Congress? Where are the reverends and the Gangs? With members of the Central Party who have been most concerned with this matter, we would like to draw attention to it and ask ourselves, " Are we going the way our cousins Danir, Norwegians, and Sweden are leaving? ' Are the messages in this bill them, by e.g. These countries are turning away from the way we seem to be building, that here can come those who cannot come anywhere else? Do we know what we're doing with this bill, the highest? President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u155	A respectable president. I'm only flexing it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came at the end of his talk on this discussion. I've been very worried about this cost assessment of the bill that I don't think is a bird or a fish. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has arrived in a pita and described his view that the secondary costs of this bill are negligible if any. I think it's strange that way. But I would immediately feel a great improvement and interesting if there was any possibility, because now I know that there are probably all classes in a house, although it was only that one of them was sent here for each party and that the assessment of the members of that council was not due to the approval of this bill. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son was here in a speech earlier this evening, an excellent speech. For those who listened to it, there is no doubt that the good senator's evaluation is similar to that of our Middle Classes, of course, that these things all take place in context. It's not that a bill like this is done and finished, and it doesn't have any secondary effects, even if things aren't working directly in the bill. This is somehow mantra, a way out of argument, saying, "This is not about this subject, it's about something else altogether. And what is the effect of human reasoning on such reasoning? As a result, things are getting much worse, more twisted, and less manageable. And then I'm not just talking about what's under here. This applies to the whole area, so to speak. If we delay to take deep discussions about complex things and difficult things, it will be no doubt more difficult when it finally comes to being free. In this context, I feel that we have to think only about what causes the Scandinavian nations now, apparently, all alone, to abandon the course that has been established in these waters for years and decades to do so, and I especially want to refer to what dances as equals people now, looking to help people around their homes. That those who enter a dance society come through this formality channel that we're here at home can most look to in the hostilities we're in. We know how difficult it can be to go through an unpopular discussion, a conversation that has little sympathy for community media and so forth, and we also know that the Norwegian superiors in Denmark, other classes elsewhere, are not doing this just because they had nothing better to do that day. This is because of the development that has occurred in their area. This is because of the development that has taken place in the pursuit of pleasure. This is because these nations are changing their course. Therefore, I find it completely inconceivable that these seem to be the most members of the council, with little interest in participating in the discussion. It takes no more than to review the unprecedented speech made by the chairman of a major committee opinion in this case that made all the stamps she got in her first speech when no one, not any member of Congress, had mentioned in 2rd. Then the label began to flash on rasism and others comparable. Of course, there is no material discussion. And because now it stands why. The senator of the forward party here in the custody, I challenge it. A senator to join the discussion if he is inside as a deputy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u156	Mr. President. What is the course of immigrants, refugees, and refugees? Who is she, what? A senator of the forward party? She's none. But it's also policy to have no direction. [[The point is, what's your policy?]] There's no policy. [[The point is, what's your policy?]] We've been talking for a few hours about Central Party policy, huh? Senator. [[Up front.]] In my first speech, I spoke about organized crime in connection with this matter. We've requested a report on how to react. Justice minister to the rise of organized crime, which often has foreign connections. I worked at the police scene for a few decades and recognize these issues. The ugly reality is that many of the trustees who come here are asymptomatic, unauthorized, and in some cases unauthorized. The police really don't know who the people are or what their background is, where they come from, what they've been doing before they got to Iceland. There are examples in Iceland that we have no idea, whether the law or anyone else, what the background is. So they could be warriors from war zones, as have, e.g. They were at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea. They're under close supervision and no one really knows what they're planning. Something's behind if you give up prints. I had already talked about policy and money, and I was also going to talk about the extremes for the last speaker's talk, the extremes that appear so clearly in this class. So I'm going to make it a subject of reaction to a bill now being treated at the council. The extremes may be best seen there. They can be seen through the review of the experts in the field, but the bill assumes that dating will be done by social advisers and psychologists rather than by hospital doctors. The discipline goes so far as to find scientific ways for analysis to be rejected. This is a bill for the legal adjustment of foreign law. The Court's review of the bill says, by permission of the President: Therefore, it may be reasoned that the usual changes to the bill are being made to the applicant's weight on international protection. A psychological analysis of the applicant's age is unlikely, as there is no research or support for such analysis and there is always a need for physical examination. Thus, the analysis process will inevitably take longer and the number of steps will increase. This is worse for candidates on international protection, less scientific and worse. I'll read on, with president's permission: To achieve this adjustment, you might expect to include a less vague and ostensible process of dating, already very clear and beneficial, on the contrary to its purpose. [...] Legal dating is a matter of ensuring children the rights they have according to international agreements, e.g. the United Nations Children's Convention and the United Nations refugee Convention, preventing adults from taking the rights reserved for children. Here's a bill that's going to change it, make it worse, tamed, harder and less scientific, but it's here. [[The president calls.]] This is how our extremes show up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u157	Mr. President. The issues we have been discussing today and tonight are very large and are on a program throughout Europe and are important in European politics. For example, border issues include one explanation, among others, of British exits from the European Union. We can be sure that the next year, these matters will be very difficult for us in the coming election in France. A Danish political translator is quoted as saying that although foreign affairs, if we call them that name, are on the surface one of the biggest issues in Danish politics, there is much more conflict between the dance parties than can be seen at first sight. The last election in Denmark was very focused on this subject, and Danish scientists, sometimes known as sociyacian, won a very good victory in those elections. They are now alone in government, but with support from two categories, a minority government led by Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. It is very interesting to observe Danish politics. Of course, it is interesting for us Icelanders to observe the good people of Denmark that we have a cousin and a great, long, deep friendship with. However, there has been a period of time between major events. The main election of ever-published dancers was to set up a welcome station for the rest of the country's trustrs outside of Europe. They have followed this main election hall with their bill before the dance council. I read in the Danish media that supporting the case is very much among Danish people, perhaps 50% support, which is, of course, very much. Various categories may support this matter, but not all of them may want to see it become a reality under the rule of an equal. In part, this may explain why the matter does not cross sails through the dance council. But as long as we're talking Danish Congress, there's another case that flew through it just recently. On March 15, Denmark's law about defenses against foreign extremes, which Dan believed, undermined Danish society, took place. It was a matter of the peer government to present that bill, but Danish senators from most political parties voted for it. It's about the fact that it is forbidden to accept money from sources considered questionable and to want to undermine Danish democracy and human rights. And, of course, everyone understands what is being discussed, it is forbidden to accept money for religious matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u158	Mr. President. I would have thought it would be necessary to explain a point in a review received from the Icelandic local Union at the bill. It says, by permission of the president: Then there is reason to draw special attention to the welfare committee that projects related to the concerted welcome of refugees are a great reward for the expectations of those who lived at the time of induction. This is of great interest, considering that today, an authority said that the cost was clear, that it was 22.7 million, and that it dismissed everything in our language, the Middle Class, that it was not. Clearly, this point has been overlooked on the Committee's work when reviews were being made, and I can't see better. Here we read in the reference from the Union's local Union to this bill: The amount of money has been cut into social security contracts with reception companies, and it does not seem to be in the intention of improving the extra expenses under increasing pressure on the school system and within the child protection. This does not appear to be expected by the health system to arrive at a consistent reception. This is quite harsh criticism, I must say, on this bill and especially the funding of it. Hv. paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir, who is chairman of this case, never mentioned these factors, that this was criticized by the European Union. Then it says: ▪ At present, Iceland is accepting most refugees relatively in comparison with the North countries. The community and its infrastructure must be equipped to provide the support and service that the diverse group of refugees claim. At that time, the increase in currents results in significantly higher spending of rural partners for financial support. In accordance with the current law, the government fund repays these expenditures for the first two years after refugees move to the country. Information from the Department of Social Affairs shows that these remunerations were sufficiently doubled between the years 2019 and 2020. According to one estimate, the Ministry is using part of the budget intended for a consistent reception in order to provide a stream of financial refunds. Is that very negative? - says a review by the European Union Union's company on the bill - ▪ and makes it easier and worse to introduce the concerted welcome of refugees than was expected. This review, Mr. President, shows black and white that this case is not working well, and it is quite clear that nothing is seen in the extra expenses that come along with this bill, which has particular attention to the rural communities. It's very critical, and I'm quite surprised that this has not been discussed here and that the pilot, the w. Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, let not have mentioned this in his speech here, but choose to put words in the mouth of men, and make big remarks about what had never been said in this discussion. I would have thought, Mr. President, that it would be necessary for this review to be discussed specifically within the committee and considered in a way that these expenses should be met when the review says that this is a substantial budget. This is a review of the Union's community. It is necessary, Mr. President, that I know this will be discussed further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u159	Mr. President. We are still discussing this, which, of course, is a major political issue on the foundation when such changes are being made in the affairs of immigrants, the welcome of refugees. At the same time, we have a case that may not tell the entire story, for this is not information about the actual cost of it, but only the cost that goes on the second stage of a multicultural site. I have no doubt that it is nearly acceptable to have increased activity there calling for the few million quoted. However, Mr. President, I believe this case might be taken up, perhaps. Complete if the section that provides reimbursement or those who have obtained a permit here is the same as the greeting. It may have been only possible to explain the role of the Multi-Same Society site more fully and, of course, the role of the information collection, i.e. The personal information that I think is in itself a good thing to fix. The minister's emphasis on this case is a little special, I must say, Mr. President, and wishing he were here at the discussion to be able to talk to us because somehow you feel that the matter is a bit of character and possibly a factor in the new concept of the minister drawn up by his public contacts. No one can answer except him, and it would be good for him to be here to answer such questions. The thing they've been doing here for a good visit. However, questions remain that are not answered, e.g. Whether it is correct to understand that all who were granted a permit here last year, 631 of them, get the same position as the greeting workers and the same service. Then it's a question of whether it's really what the High Priests, Independence Party and Left Greens want to do. Is it what they're up to, to send the message that we're all welcome here, that it's relatively simple to get here and very open to get a permit while we're doing the good service? In itself, I feel that not everything is important to me, not where people come from, but the purpose of coming. If we look at the origin of the people who have come in these last few years, it's a little different. Interestingly, during a period there were many applying for permission from some Eastern European countries. For a time, there was also a considerable number of people from Africa, Somalia, from several locations in Iraq, even after the war ended. Then you wonder what brings these good people here really. I also, Mr. President, would like to reflect here, as I did in my first speech, the importance of not being afraid to ask questions and to get information about how the individuals who are allowed to stay here. We realized that those who come here, and want to get a home here or a permit to stay, are guests in our country, at least in the beginning. Surely, then, we must wonder how they are adjusting to what is available here. It is also interesting, Mr. President, to wonder how many people will settle here, how many people will enjoy our hospitality here and then walk the course, go somewhere else, go to other countries, and where they will go if there is any information about it. What you may be most concerned about, Mr. President, is that at the same time as our neighboring countries are dealing with major problems at home, major problems that have occurred in their communities, with the creation of large groups of inmates, we think we're going the wrong way. I wondered why it is done and, in fact, do not fully understand that it is happening when the problems are faced with others, a problem that we should learn from, not necessarily apes and make. It would be closer to storing this whole bill or then taking out its main contents and improving the intelligence of the Multihuman Park, making it work now, and setting over how we can agree and look to our neighbors, learn from them, shape our laws and rules of response and policy in view of that experience. No matter what the few members in favor of this matter have said, anyone who wants to consider the matter is that the most secure and refugees have been in total crisis in the North and other parts of Europe during the past few years. Of course, it has nothing to do with except our current course. To be clear, Mr. President, this speech is not about being against foreigners or anything like that, on the contrary. It is a pleasure to see how many foreigners, from abroad, have done well here, and they have colored our Icelandic society with beautiful colors. Of course, we should have the courage to look at such individuals as others with open minds and open eyes, wondering what is best for us in the long run and in the future. It is quite clear to me, Mr. President, that if we continue on the same path, there will be the same problems here and in other parts of the North countries. Why shouldn't they come up here? Today, it is clear that we will receive a relative increase in the number of refugees and refugees compared with the rest of the North countries. I think it's almost no matter where we go in Europe, where there's a debate, where policy is going on over how to wind off the decisions taken at its time, in different degrees of deep or extreme, the decisions to open these countries. It is also thought - provoking that if most of these refugees came from North Africa or the Arab countries, how many countries have been unable to accept these neighbors, they have flocked to Europe. Of course, there are exceptions, as I mentioned in my first talk. I think it's very good to discuss this and it would be desirable if more people spoke up so that political discussions would be discussed. It seems that many members, many members of Parliament, decided to follow the discussion rather than look at the matter from the evidence and experience of others and from the real world. But once again, I restate that we should do well when it comes to cooperating with the United Nations and institutions that are working to improve the interests of these people, and that we should do as near as possible to the homes of these individuals, that is what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u160	President. During this discussion, I have held only three talks on this big and important subject, which are considered to be all the major political subjects and, in fact, in many places. Interestingly, the issue is not getting the same attention here in Iceland, and it also attracts attention to their mental well - being. senators named for at least There is no reason to support this matter to explain why they want to go all the other way, in fact, in the opposite direction, according to the current policies in other parts of the North. In order to explain this context or perhaps rather paradox, between this bill of Iceland's Government and the current policy in the North countries, I was beginning to deal only with the policies of the Norse political parties in this subject and had already introduced the policy of the Icelandic government's policy to a peripheral policy in other countries. I had particularly begun to guess the course of a dance crew, considered reasons to deal directly with that policy, and had only begun to refer to its introduction. By the time I was gone, I had already traced to the dance - practicing peers the importance of those who want to participate in Danish society and participate in it, including the U.S.A. By working, and if not the case, the officers of Danish had also traced the cost. I continue, with the permission of a president, as stated in the introduction of an equal dance group: It is not only a problem for Denmark but also a violent injustice in which refugees live with their lives at risk and where dissatisfactions of human halls profit billions of dollars from the calamity of others. In the past three years, more than 10,000 children, women, and men have drowned in the Mediterranean, trying to reach Europe. There are still others who suffer violence and abuse while on the way. Women are forced to prostitution, families are oppressed, and people are sold as slaves. Here, a real picture of the situation is drawn to support evidence that a change in course is needed, a policy that does not promote this trend, but encourages another. And they go on, the Danish kids: At the same time, we leave the weak behind. During the past four years, the European countries have spent much more money on the processing of shelters for those who have made their way to Europe, even though many prove to be traveling workers who do not need protection or prospects for a legal home in Europe. This is in addition to financial support provided in the vicinity of the environment and to the most vulnerable refugees. By letting the present system continue, we are neglecting our obligation to fellow humans. Mr. President. I'm going to repeat this from the direction of the officers of dance: We are neglecting our obligation to other people if we let the present system continue. On this point, our criticism is based as much on the fact that the Icelandic government not only announces that the present system continues but also wants to go in the opposite direction as Danir, even the expected Swedes, the Norwegians, are heading toward and have achieved a surprising broad political reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-04-89.u161	Mr. President. There is an ancient proverb that says this, by permission of the president: Not one that causes a warning. In the past four years, there have been a number of matters that we Middle-class people have warned about, and the effects have not been heard, but they have occurred after the disaster, as it were. We will probably see some of that in the years that follow. I say this because we Icelanders tend to take all the measures that others have previously given up. It's been foreign here, unfortunately, that, um... When people in the countries around us realize that something doesn't work out, it's as if we say we pick it up here, make it ours, and walk in the same mistake that others have tried to get out of over a long time. This is the case, and in the last 35 years, we have pointed out that the northern countries that are now changing their policies to take care of traders and immigrants have been making mistakes by building people together in order not to adapt to the local community. In fact, a special society is created that merges, e.g. not the Danish and Swedish society. This is not the only case, Mr. President. Toward the end of the last year, and at the beginning of this year, the President of France, e.g. At one point, the French government has lost sight of what might have been good when they met very many people from their old colonies. Sadly, this group, as the president says, has created some of its own society aside from French society. He has said that the ancient French values that the French have held for years are now in danger. This fine man, President Macron of France, is not a member of the Central Party, and has not been counted among those who are in favor of nationalism or racialism but now seems to feel that the French are not able to handle the situation in society except by making very radical changes that will take on these same great people as the French moved in in in the past 50 years, I could believe that I am expecting their import from their newborn has begun since 1960; it is approaching 60 years, the age of mankind has passed, and the adjustment, if we are able to say so, it has not been better than this. This is not said to bear fear or alien hatred. Rather, it is moved here to show people that we need, Icelanders, to make sure that we do not lose control over how we give people access to our fine country, whether they are eaters or refugees or people seeking international protection, but we must strive to do our job, as we have been saying today, to receive people properly so that we can handle their service, as we say, and to help them adapt to our society to that they can live here.
