ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-115.u1	President. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity at the end of the day to thank you for having dealt with Pirata's wishes. We're gonna go for a second. A pilot, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, agreed to make sure that the Persian protection views would be taken into consideration. That's what we Pirates had. I appreciate the cooperation that made it possible for all of us to settle this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-115.u2	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Goland inspired me earlier. I've got to get this thing off before I get out of here. It is often said that it is the same with all members of the Parliament, that nothing changes, members do nothing, and that there is no point in participating in politics because it's always the same. It's harder than it should be to get a objective discussion here. It is harder for a smaller part than it should be. But as this bill proves, it can be done. You can volunteer, you can get an advantage, you can make a deal, and you can have it approved. I think it's important that we keep it up, too. Dreams can come true. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-115.u3	Mr. President. I have previously expressed my opinion that the Council should not give citizenship, that it should be in the hands of its institutions. I have provided a bill for the purpose, unfortunately, that has not been made available to the council program, but I hope we'll be on the program later. So I'm embarrassed by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-115.u4	Mr. President. When we headed for the vote, which we handled earlier, we joined a platoon member on a mission we had to sort out. In this regard, our conclusions were to make the recommendations presented, that instead of that when we agreed to the law, a new national government will be elected, a preparatory committee will be assigned to prepare for the execution of the law. By doing so, we will arrange for a national election to be elected, and it will be in the fall. But in order that technical preparations for the implementation of the law will not be completely completed until then we propose a preliminary committee appointed by the European Union, the Council's Presidency Committee and the Justice Department, to carry out the work there.
