ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u1	President. First of all, I don't think the General's actually holding the budget. The senators simply hand over the government funds and just sign what comes from them all the way, except some things the Minister doesn't seem to be trusted to finance, and they just want to do it directly themselves - here are 3.6 million on some pet project of ours, very much fun. With regard to the National Hospital, we have repeatedly received a representative of the Land Hospital at a panel meeting to explain how the problem is, and compared with the explanation of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of State, the Land Hospital is simply explained by a much better and much better reason. Really much better. In particular, the hospital points to certain matters that the Ministry simply cannot answer, which they avoid answering. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, leads you to feel that something is being hidden. Then it must be the right thing represented by the Hospital because they simply cannot answer that criticism.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u2	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The servant of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for his discourse, was very important. In the budget earlier today, I was discussing nursing homes and conditions, and especially that 67 years of age and younger are being saved in nursing homes. I went with the figures I had seen, that these were 144 individuals, but in VOLV a few months ago the news came that these were 200 people. It's suddenly 55 more people than I knew about. I ask if this was discussed within the budget board and if this information was available and if the only billion of them are going to be up - to - date with nurses and to address this problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u3	Mr. President. The nursing home was very much discussed in a budget committee during the last term and was called after this report, which unfortunately did not answer all the questions the committee had raised. We were disappointed, disappointed, and disappointed. We don't have enough information on the need for service. I don't think a political decision has been made on how to function the need for service entirely from the process when people need a little help, to treat it kindly. And what is needed to care for each individual? It's not just nursing homes and nursing homes and nothing in between. It's different. Now more and more are being done in home nursing. But there is no diagnostic or political decision on how the system should look compared to population growth. [[The president calls.]] We have no direction in front of us that says there are 200 days, and we need to reach 250 next year to get the foundation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Just so I understand: Is it really so that the budget doesn't discuss the grand problem that 200 individuals under 67 years of age are trapped in nursing homes designed for older people and that there is no discussion, no money, no solution, and no effort to discuss it on the part of government officials? I ask: Are they trying not to see the problem, or do they not know about it, or do they just not want to discuss it at all? I ask: How on earth can you possibly have this year after year without taking it in any way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u5	President. Yes, that's what we're talking about. The reaction has always been scratching in the tray. During the last term, there was strong hope that the report could give people a view of how the problem could be handled. But that is not the case. It is, I think, because it simply needs to make a political decision to take some step instead of just trying to hold on to this thought: We just build a number of nursing homes, we just put something in home service, and we'll see if it works. That's the problem. It's so unremarkable how it is tried to solve it. But there is definitely an interest in that, as shown in the adjustment of more things. So that all fairness is being observed, this is discussed, but the situation is simply a lack of political vision of how to solve the problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator with a powerful speech and a long life. I don't trust myself to ask him about the climate. But I'd like to ask him about one point he made up of which are NAPA contracts, contracts for user-controlled personal assistance based on law on long-term support services to the disabled. These contracts are in the community, and money comes from the state. It is stated in the Committee that there is a real lack of funding for a total of 79 contracts to meet the standards of the NPA agreements. There are 79 people, I think it's right to be back there, who don't get this deal. I think it's a personal example of priorities in the budget. There's 79 contracts that will not be dealt with this year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject of government relations with local societies as well as on priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u7	President. In 2018, the number of NAPA contracts was 78 out of 80. In 2019 there were 90 treaties of 103 that were to be under law. By 2020, there were 83 treaties, fewer, fewer number, of 125. In 2021, there were 93 treaties of 150 that were to be under law. That's the size you're talking about. And budgets that are being adopted today - 320 million extra in MPA to the 300 that fell out, 20 million are really just tireing out of pay and price development - meaning that the NPA numbers are just replaced. Next year, this is a 172 contract, but it's only 93.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's a little bit of a down-and-out in the budget bill. Hv. A senator also mentioned the expected physical growth of the Land Hospital. For example, will not this uncalculated growth - being transferred to the back-works, a better shifting arrangement, and still need some of the Land Hospitals - be included in next year's funds? Isn't it definitely that, and hopefully, next year's NAPA deal, they don't have it? Then I come to the quality of the budget bill, that the sum should only deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses within the budget year. [[The president calls.]] So we have financial resources that go into the budget, and the budget is actually a quality label on the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u9	President. It has just been a change from the previous financier law on government finance, where not automatically advising everything in plus or minus each joint after a year, it just goes to a angle. It's a minister to take action. So no, this minus does not make budgets for the next year. Rather, he simply describes himself at a higher angle in the Land Hospital, unless they decide to cut down in any way or to take some conservative action, which we have been repeatedly told to limit only to services. Everything has been cut to the nail since the collapse. It had to be done then, cut just like a nail. There's really been nothing added since then but increased projects and financial resources that do not fix basics, and this figure considered real growth. [[The president calls.]] Now some part of it is being taken off. [[The president calls.]] In fact, the land hospital is still in the condition that it was after a collapse but only with more to cope with, and it calculates the number of actual real estates. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u10	Madam President. During a discussion with Presidential Conference Committee earlier tonight, vice president 2 informed us that another president was working, in fact, in isolation by Covid, to make a decision for the continuation of meetings. We have requested that this meeting be completed at midnight, that it be interrupted, and that the committees at sea are unsatisfactory. The budget is here to recommend a committee opinion. It is not a continuation of the discussion or the discussion of non-employmental members. Rather, it is recommended by members of the Governing Body on two issues. We have requested that in view of the public view that has the right to know at a late hour what is going to happen to the money he has, the authorities and the members of the committee have an opportunity to recommend it. Nothing has been responded to our wish for a recession in a meeting. It seems that the house is out of control, that the one who is 2nd vice president, who is supposed to be in charge, is in control, not in charge, but someone who is not in a house, a man who is the president of the Generals, who cannot do his jobs because he is in isolation. So I must pray that someone who has real power and can take control of the meeting will arrive. It's out of the question. We must request proper respect for the Allied Parliament and that someone take control of this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u11	A respectable president. I have to agree with this, and I'm going to tell you who's in charge of the Generals meeting. Who's making decisions about tonight's conference? Who is the dominant president of the Generals right now? Who can have a word with senators who wish to follow the decades of tradition of holding at least starting at 2nd. Fiction in the sun? It is of absolute minimum value, a respectable president, that we know, first of all, who is directing these meetings and second, of course, that our requirement is not to be brought to the committee's attention after midnight and late into the night. Some dramatic announcements made here by the Minister that this is just how one should accept - it's not a present, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to say that we're totally unnecessary talking about budgeting into the night. How natural it must be that something is being done in these matters now! It appears that President and Vice President 1 are under way, but the president seems to be in charge even though he is not there and he is sick. I think we should insist that there be a recession until we find out who the president is in charge here tonight and who can make decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u13	President. I guess the highest. Ministers come in here to scold us for being lazy and not talking until the night? I wonder if he'll do it again. That's not what we were talking about in a meeting board earlier. It is natural that prominent members of the Committee take account of the day, as always, in order to present their opinion to the committee. Your mess is not our responsibility. We have no objection to being here until the morning and the next day, etc. in general discussion, but the transfer of the Committee's art is not a general debate. Committees are an important report, the narratives of the members of the committee and the investigation of the Committee, and it is of utmost importance that the whole body is involved. We pray again: Don't make the committee writers part of being here at night to tell about the scale of a thousand billion - would that not be the right number - the government's financial laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u14	Madam President. Here comes two of the highest. Ministers earlier took pride in how hard they had been in the old days. I'm sure that only half of them had to do a lot of hard work over the years, but that's another story. Of course, it is primarily about our having the subject discussed and that the committees will be presented in daylight instead of under cover of night, not about our inability to work. We must also discuss only who has the authority to direct meetings. We have quite an experience with telecommunications last year in Covid. But I don't think it was ever the idea that the council would be controlled from a basement room west of town, a mile away. Madam President. We must simply know: Is Mrs. President fully authorized here because the President and the Vice President are sick and in isolation? Or is it somehow different? To have this conversation, we need to understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u15	The president wants to inform us that since the president was here in the chair earlier this evening, he has managed to gather information about what was going on between the council groups and the president on the front of this meeting, and it was quite clear that a meeting meeting didn't start until 15 p.m. so that those who had been under siege would have the opportunity to participate in the meeting, but instead, it would continue until the evening. [[Of course.]] In addition, the president is aware that there are discussions that have taken place between the party classes tonight and that they are still working out and that they will continue something longer. The president watches what's coming out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u16	Madam President. In the past, vice presidents take full place in his place. That's what the 8th says. Act of Congress. The modern - day live of the Birgir's Ármannsson is, according to one report, in an interview with the News magazine, with symptoms that have been diagnosed with Covid. He's in solitary confinement in his home. In this case, he must be confined for at least 10 to 14 days. He cannot direct the council for the remainder of the years. There's only one president who can do that. There is only one president who can be responsible for the conversation between members of the council to complete his work properly, and that is the highest. President of Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year cannot control what is happening here, and especially not when dealing between categories, because of the inconsistency of members of the governments, is going so badly. Somebody's got to run this party. That's what Anna Sævarsdóttir needs to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying that I feel that the President has handled this meeting well and that there's no problem with the meeting here as a reason to comment. Class presidents met, and it was found to be possible to meet with the highest power. The president of the Generals, Birgir the Year's Ármannsson. It's just wrong that he can attend a telethon. [[Up front.]] He can come to a telecommunication if they want to have such a telecommunications. But what I was mostly going to discuss here was that earlier tonight, it was requested that members of Congress speak together to ensure that this could be done democratically and that everything would be very clear and natural and that this conversation would need to take place in daylight. But at this meeting it happens that the government puts out requirements that she doesn't want to be discussed here in the hall of light and doesn't want to show any transparency about those demands, see that the greater part agrees to vote with the lesser part's proposal. Is it democratic? Do people think it's a benefit? And why not discuss it here on a symposium instead of saying that this is all about the meeting being held at the right time of the day? Just say the same thing here at the Hall of Congress as they say in these meetings, which is the result of the whole attack. Then we can have an honest conversation about how the Senate work should develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u18	A respectable president. I'm just a rookie here at the council, and I think it's weird, I have to say right now. V.E.G. In fact, the minister of finance said that there were newly formed members of the council who were about to give up and the highest. The minister of wood said that at ten o'clock in the evening there was a very bad day in his understanding of the Council of the Year. At least it's afternoon coffee now, it's 4:30. It's good to know who's in charge at the council, because I wasn't quite sure, but it was in the inquiry before who's in charge. I'm next to the rosary. I woke up at five this morning, drove to Keflavík and back. I went to a meeting at 9:30 and I've been here ever since. I thought I'd be moving my story on the committee opinion at 4:00 this morning, but I'm not. I don't understand why you can't just take a break at a council meeting, go home to sleep and start again tomorrow. If there is a negotiation, are we talking about three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine? I just think it's time for me to go home to sleep, come back tomorrow, and continue talking. It's not complicated. If there are some demands that have not been set up in negotiations, progress, and so forth, then the negotiations are just being held out tomorrow. I know in my heart that these budgets will be taken care of for New Year's and there will be meetings between Christmas and New Year's. But at least for me, as replacements, it's low for me to be clean. What's the problem? It would be nice to have the highest. A minister or someone who could explain it to me. I'd love to be here at 10:00 a.m., and I'm supposed to go to a meeting at 8:30, and only after that he keeps talking. I know it will be the government post and, yes, my friends at the budget board will be in the area, and hopefully the highest. Secretary of the budget, too, and then we're done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u19	A respectable president. She's become quite an adventureful performance of the highest order. Secretary of finance here tonight. First of all, I have to correct the highest. The secretary of finance to the highest degree. The president of Birgir Ármannsson's son was not to be found at this meeting we called on. V.E.G. A president sitting on this platform said that he could not participate in that meeting because of the highest. The president of Ármannsson would have the authority to attend, but he did not come to the meeting. He hasn't been heard, so I know. So who's in charge of the Council? It is a simple, clear, self - righteous question. V.E.G. Minister is trying to make sure that we're going into something hiding our proposals here. There is an adjustment made by the government, which is available to the public. We are not forcing the government to go against its own convictions. Rather, we are asking the government to give the government a legal warrant for a law that it itself approved. More terror in this government opposition, asking the government to abide by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u20	Madam President. I got the top. Secretary of finance just before, did he not feel that a person in isolation in a town just keeps directing the General through telecommunications? So is the thought that it will be that way for another two weeks? And now I think it's all right to make that known to the head of the party, to the highest level. The president, Birgir Ármannsson, belongs and asks him: "Is it because the man is digested with sickness, where he is legally confined in this apartment for the next 14 days, and he will be called a replacement and this President's case will be explained? Or plan the highest. A minister to direct the council for the next 14 days through his computer?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u21	A respectable president. All the government asks is that in order to negotiate the end of this discussion, the majority will vote as the government wants. This confirmed the dog. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir. So if the other section doesn't vote in a chamber like the government wants it to be, there'll be no contracts on the continuation of the discussion. It's fine that it's shown up in the Senate Hall. You see, that's what this is all about. At this time, it's never going to work. It will never be accepted that progress at the council will be determined by the way the government's side would like the greater part to vote for itself in the council hall. No, thank you, never agree on that. [[Up front.]] It's very important that this be done here at the President's conference board because it's about what this piece of junk is all about, not whether Birgir Ármannsson's test is positive or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u22	Madam President. Yes, the charade goes on, says the minister, at least this is how it can be spoken of. At any rate, a minister is going to sit here with us for the next few days and nights while we continue to discuss the matter. It'll be fun. But it's clear that this seat can't be controlled by telecommunications, as if I'm not allowed to sit at a council during a telecommunications hearing. Also clear is the fact that what was being asked for in contracts was that some of the points of memory were taken into account. It wasn't to say that it should be just a vote, as we say. But it's actually gonna be that way, considering that there's no one here. We have the votes, then we can vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u23	Madam President. Let's talk politics. This is where we are discussing the ideas of the administration body, the change form of the government opposition that was suggested to be part of the closed council agreements. Contract agreements have taken place here twice a year as long as the oldest men remember and even the highest. A minister of finance, though it was long since he was here at the council, so long ago he is trapped, apparently in his ivory tower, should remember that the end of Congress is here at the end of the fall, and the end of the spring council. This conversation, and how to end this discussion, is a matter of government and government opposition. In addition, we have requested that the members of the committee be not moving them and discussing them in the middle of the night. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that Mrs. President decide to complete this meeting now, to postpone it until 10:00 in the morning. Then the next committee member can recommend his party in daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u24	President. Here we have the adjustment proposed by the memory of the part. It should not be surprising that all of this is about the change in the memory of the part. This is what we're putting into the pavilion to fix the law. It's as simple as that. The government members just say, "Hey, we're going to finish it just the way it is. And we're saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, there's just some really serious shit in here that's got a lot of money." There might be a minimum of one taken, e.g. 900 million in what the government and the council have already agreed to as a law to finance. That's a very small requirement, you'd think; please finance what you've put into law. It's a very simple suggestion. Instead, they say: No, we are not. It's completely impossible to agree because we've already committed a law, and that's why we're just gonna let the council walk and we're gonna let everybody talk and talk and want to remind you that we're not going to do what we wanted, and we're gonna do the law. It is so strange, Madam President, that this is really something that needs to work, that the lesser part needs to remind the government of what she has done to the law and ask for it to be financed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u25	A respectable president. I didn't mean to come back to the speaker's table, but I just have to do it because it's being said it's all a joke. Is the story of the committee's opinion a charade?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u26	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u27	Now I'm 2nd Vice President of the Fund Committee and I've been to some committee meetings. We've done a lot of work on a financial committee, and we've done it just fine. We've been doing all right on a budget board, and we've been trying to drive this case forward so we can finish the budget by Christmas. But then, when I'm about to make a story in my committee opinion to the 2nd cut of the budget, it's getting weird. I refuse. It's a play to call things just a charade, and bringing this particular opinion isn't a charade, I refuse it. These accusations are simply wrong; they do not hold a view. The same can be said of a lot of things on this budget bill, and that's what we're trying to talk about here in the smaller part, in a position of government. The fact is, at least from my point of view: There is going to be a drive against the approval of the Allied Council's approval of this financial bill, no matter what may be thrashing or humming, preferably without a discussion, and preferably without any criticism of government opposition.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u28	A respectable president. I want to begin by informing you that I was the chairman of the council who preached the meeting earlier, that the president was never called upon. It was just to discuss the possibility of a concluded agreement between the party groups. I'd like to say about the program of this meeting that we're on right now that it's been a long time before we were going to start talking about the budget today. This has been a long time before, and it has been on the program for the council. This was assumed to be the first time this morning. For normal reasons, the beginning of a meeting was delayed. But Christmas and the time we haven't delayed. One down. The chairman of the government stand informed earlier that he had expected to deliver his case much earlier, but so it has happened, so it will be delayed. But we just need to move on a little bit longer to use the time, because if we don't use our time tonight, we might have to vote in the middle of the night on the budget for second discussion. I don't think it's any better. Then there are differences in how Congress ends, what subjects are scheduled for. But it's a matter of vote by which the government is asked, it's on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u29	A respectable president. I think there's a nightingale in the management board, and the discussion is way ahead of us in these cases. Perhaps the most significant point in this is that the discussion has reached the highest point. A financial minister would get upset here and say that it would not be possible to accept what the government would be asking of. The government situation was merely asking the government, as it has been shown, to uphold the laws that have already been passed. Of course, it is a serious matter in the eyes of the secretary of finance that the government is to uphold laws established and approved here at the General Assembly. There must be some serious problem if the rule is to set laws and not fulfill them at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u30	At this point, the president wants to inform us that when the president arrived in a chair some minute ago, she was aware that there was still a certain conversation between the council groups about how it might be possible to complete this assembly for Christmas. While the president is not informed that this conversation is over or that the conversation is over, she intends to continue this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u31	President. I was quite surprised when I participated in a similar discussion here on the President's conference board earlier tonight, and I've had no less surprise, because then I made it a subject that it was best to get to the top. Ministers stayed away from these negotiations and thought they had realized that they were not helping. But that does not seem to be the case, for the head of the Independence Party continues on the same path, throwing oil on a fire, trying to reach some conclusion, on the contrary. And it is evident that the chairman of the government is not authorized to do anything or anyone. It's been said here in this pit: never, never. [[Up front.]] Aren't they going to finish the council? Haven't people stood at the end of the council before? Never been written before? Haven't people seen a Messiah's file come up when an agreement's next? Haven't people been in Congress? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u32	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a meeting with President. For me, the point may be that we in this room do not know who is in charge of this meeting. When we talk about the President's conference board, past who we're talking about, we don't even know who the president is. There is no such thing and there has been no answer to who is directing this meeting. If it is really so that a decision was made to the highest level. The president of Birgir Ármannsson led this meeting with some kind of telecommunication device from a basement somewhere, I suggest at least will be asked to ask for some sort of assessment of whether such is the norm and that we here may receive a memo from the Council's Office on the basis of precedents and whether this is in accordance with the rules of Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u33	Madam President. Yeah, I can't wait to get that memo and see if you can't be in the cottage talking here from the Senatehouse and like that. But to be a little more upbuilding, I want to make the most of it. Economic and economic ministers go and take a little rest, because he's obviously getting pretty excited and doesn't want to participate in any contracts, contracts that are actually very simple. We're suggesting that the funding be provided for things that have already been put into law. Simple thing. To be perfectly clear what we're talking about, it's the subsidies of psychological services. The mental health of the Icelanders is important. Once again, I challenge members of the council to take a brief break and discuss matters seriously and to return with answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u34	Madam President. The Congress had hardly approved the psychiatric subsidies at the highest rate. Secretary of finance said, "Obbosie, there's just no money for this. " And now the same minister is up in a pit, and he's really a pirripu because the smaller part wants to finance what the council agreed to. What does the minister say? There will never be a letdown. What's wrong with the man, Madam President? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] No, thank you, never to negotiate on this, he said, and called it a charade. It's an insult, Madam President. This is an insult to the General Assembly who agreed to pay off the psychological expenses that the government has failed to pay. And this is an insult to all the foreigners, every one of them who need this payment, thousands, thousands, thousands of people who need this service but cannot afford it. And the Minister has the right to call it a charade in the government opposition to want to protect this. The Minister - What's the name of the minister playing charade? He is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend the Committee to A.D. 2 on a smaller section of the budget. The bill of this, the first budget bill of the season, is characteristic of the individual government cohesion, forwarding party, and left green. The bill is fighting for the council as late as it is. Its content is largely unchanged from the last financial law. It does not answer to serious problems in government. A great powder is spent to enhance the government's operations and to draw a veil over the negative. Poor people are left behind one more trip. The campaign's been ignored. The characteristics of government cooperation in the terms of the terms and terms of the time that were constantly delays in the needs of reforms, no effort to deal with the growing health management problems, the establishment of government funds at the expense of the people, and finally repeated excerpts on their own advantages. A bill to the budget gives evidence that the government will adhere to the same emphasis over the years to come. The nation is breaking in half. The skin grows. The poor and the elderly cannot make ends meet. Young people cannot enter a house - to - house market without parental assistance. Meanwhile, there's an increase in the pay rate and class division. Soon there will be two nations, owners, and tenants in the land, nothing will be done. We can hardly boast of living in a Norwegian welfare community when thousands are waiting in line for food distribution. What, then, when the health system cannot accept one bus accident without the idea of anything being burned down. For financial purposes, the bill does not foretell actual changes in the interests of the people, much like that. All emphasis is placed on maintaining unchanged conditions, increasing inequities, depravity, and decline. In terms of the government situation, this is to say: The success of making up for the high contracture caused by the pandemic Covid-19 is good news. State management rates will be lower than budgets expected, and unemployment has been reduced. At the General Assembly, we met on important economic measures, such as investment campaigns in the road system, tax appeals due to the campaign all work and sectoral development through the project begin work. These measures, together with the growth of tourists and furturbs, had a positive effect on the level of employment, the quality of life, and economic growth. The next year, it is predicted that 5.3% of the interest and balance of the state's funds would be greatly added. Still, there are concerns. These include increasing inflation, but unemployment has also had to be replaced during the past few months. There is an ultrasound variant of Covid-19 in growing, and neighboring nations are predicting an increase in infection within the next few months, and it is likely here to be the case also. The further waves of the pandemic have a negative impact on the economy and on government matters as well as the lives and health of people. We may be able to control the epidemic, but it is clear that the ultrasound variant can easily be taken into account. The economist next year predicts 3.3% inflation. Inflation levels are 4.8% and has been tested for the inflation target of the National Bank since the arrival of Covid-19 in the country. Iceland is not unique, but inflation is now 6.8% in the United States and 4.9% in the Euro region. The global epidemic Covid-19 has caused disturbances in the manufacturing chain and lack of products has resulted in an increase in prices. Land prices have increased in many parts of the world, and Iceland is no exception. Since housing has been reduced recently, property is sold faster than ever and will inevitably reach its edge. It has a devastating effect on society when home prices rise as quickly as they can in such a short period of time. Counties and traders are enriched, but it is more difficult for earners and middle - income earners to gain access to housing markets. Young people in these groups cannot buy an apartment without being helped by parents. They raise apartments so fast that regular saving is not enough for the increase. Officials are beginning to experience harmful effects of inflation. According to a bill for financial support, the debt of state funds has increased by 15.6 billion dollars. In the year, due to benefits. This has resulted in increased interest rates for state funds and upsurges. Homes have no such increase and assistance. Their economy is getting worse and worse without any advice. Without action, many people lose their homes and their lives, as did the following 2008 collapse. Interestingly, the hard-founded importance of a new government is in the budget. The financial bill discussed here will address where it has been removed and will direct the continuation of the last budget bill. Secular law is virtually unchanged between years of age. The main changes between the years are pay and price updates and the reduction of warrants due to temporary pandemic activities. This is of interest, in view of the new government covenant, the Front Class, the Independence Party, and the Left Motion of a Greenleg. The covenant contains wonderful promises of action, but it does not seem to have entered this year's budget. Only with regard to the implementation of the budget bill: It is utterly disturbing how difficult it is to get perspective and answers to basic financial issues in the budget bill. A great pad is spent drawing up the greatest image of the budget and the effectiveness of previous actions. In a general discussion of individual topics, however, there is a general application of large sources of change between years of age and refer to the fact that financial authority is within the framework or that temporary projects will collapse. A closer look will then reveal that some projects are being cut off. Why are those words not plain? It is particularly reprehensible when a cut is hidden in this way by means of a financial bill that appears late this year. This will give us less time to make comments and corrections, and the discussion here today gives some evidence of this. Here's a budget bill that we've just met and we're still putting ourselves in, and I'm especially talking about senators who don't have a budget. Much is needed in discussing financial information on individual institutions. A figure of work goes on to see if agencies are really getting the documents they think they need to continue their business. It is very difficult then to determine whether individual projects are fully funded, and when there is as little time as they can be, there simply won't be enough time for such work. Do not improve the work force here at the General Assembly regarding the discussion there. I'm giving this speech by 2 p.m. On the night of December 22, and from the discussions about the President's conference board, we'll probably be discussing this up until the morning, which is somewhat special to me, who is just a member of the council, so that I don't say any more. I believe it is very important for the rest of the world that the General, the Government, and the government's tenures have the right to negotiate a work song with the debate of the budget before it begins. I have observed discussions in other countries, e.g. In Norway, and never in the past ten years have known that they had a night meeting like this. It's 15 times more crowded society and there it all seems to be running like a clock, but here in our little Iceland we are until the morning and one of the highest. A minister said that when it was 10:00 in the evening, it was just a bad day. I'm a rookie, but I don't think I'm giving up like the highest. Secretary of finance said, maybe he's gone home to sleep, I don't know. But anyway, I think it's fundamental that there's no future discussion like this. I believe this transfer of mine here on the opinion of the 2nd subcommittee is not a skirmish, in order to make it happen. It is my duty as a member of the committee to present and deliver the committee, and I was hoping that I might move it about four or five points to this day, but the clock is now one. The financial and economic minister led to the system changes introduced by the legal legislation on public finances. One of their primary objectives was to increase the growth of GDP. Clearly, the presentation of this bill counteracts that goal. - I see that this is the head of a budget committee and the 1st vice president and other budget managers, and I hope that in the next year, a budget panel can take on the job to increase the transparency of the budget itself, in the publication published each year so that the public and media can deal with the big statistics, the big variables, the system, and what is happening; every purpose of the government is, how it intends to promote its financial policy against and how the concerts of the Secret Bank can be dealt with that are fundamentally in the interests of the state, that the state's policy of finance has a relationship with the state of the state. Iceland's secret bank has its price targets, and then we may be able to get stability that has been a systematic problem here over the last few decades, which is bad enough that nobody outside of Iceland has ever believed in stability, since we have inflation similar to any other country, and this has been harmful to Iceland. I can take an example of a bank operation in Norway, where I know a little bit about it, or in Scandinavia. The principle is that Iceland has to do with the Norwegian bank market, become part of a Norwegian bank market, so we can get a serious competition and connect with this most powerful and efficient banking market in northern Europe, and in the world, I think. It would have a tremendous impact on the quality of life and economic growth in the country if we were to succeed in being here in little Iceland with a banking system, which is simply making profits that are not competitive. A lot of stories came up about the bill, even though little time had to be spent on it. Interestingly, even though the budget was only visible until December there have been more debates about it than was received in the last term by any financial bill. This indicates that more correction is needed than in general, and so it is usually suggested that reviews are provided to point out things that need adjustment or to call for adjustments. There were reports from public institutions, rural communities, labor movement, and various stakeholders, e.g. The Department of Destiny, the National Association of Older Citizens, the National Society of Development and Psychological Help. The red thread of the reviews of the above parties was critical of the basic components of the budget, evidence that funding was lacking in certain categories and appeals for the priorities of money in the interest of community important projects. I just want to talk about the health system: The operating health system is obvious. A large percentage of the nation has repeatedly called on the health - care system to get financial support for other countries, 11% of GDP - this refers to total health resources, not just public donations; they should be about 8.7%, if I remember correctly, in BHM or BSRB reviews I remember. We are far from reaching that goal. In the years to come, changes in this area need to be made, and financial support needs to be followed. More than 100 people with skills and health assessments wait for graduation from the Land Hospital to spend in the most expensive resources available. It is extremely difficult for our health to know that we have people who are meant to be in less expensive shelters in the most expensive resources available to us. The flow problem must be addressed so that we can run here an economic and efficient health system. The crisis at the Land Hospital grows each year, and workers are under great pressure. Then the reward is not great for the people who have stood in the line of fire against Covid-19. Last year, the Christmas gift gift gift was on one shoe in Skechers. This year, the gift will only be more generous, sufficient for the creatives. The staff will be allowed to choose between a letter of gift or that a gift in their name runs to the Fed Control Committee. Says that much about the state's attitude toward the staff of the Land Hospital. At the same time, little or no money from the state goes to a charity organization that handles the food distributions. Family help gets a total of 500,000 bucks. In other words, government officials are to be entrusted with the responsibility to finance this Christmas luncheon, in their choice of Christmas gift. I'd like to state that the group of people, regarding the budgets, made some changes that the Icelandic state would contribute 100 million dollars. K. for the charity of the food distribution, the proposal was made. I believe that there is an enormously important operation that is subject to, volunteers, and the work of free members of the community who are actually taking part in the role of the State. From my introduction to the government after working on a financial committee, I see very clearly that a large part of the welfare system is driven by such organizations. It is enough to include SOUTH, the Alsheimist Society, and other societies. We thus have a health system that is partly run by members of a community. ASL is e.g. To sell elves and also to make money through slot machines but to stop doing what they can because of their gambling. I believe that the model, or health system, should be taken as a whole and considered by these views: What is a community organization doing, and what is the government to do, and what is the private person doing? It is very important to examine the health system as a model and see where the money goes, and this subsidies will be taken care of at the Land Hospital. In recent years, the same news has been about Land Hospitals, year after year, and this is about to damage Land Hospital and start causing significant refugees. The image of the Land Hospital and the Health Organization simply is not good enough. This is the most important health center in society. We must be able to run one high-tech hospital with dignity and dignity as an independent nation. We are the richest society in the world, and this is not the news. News of the Land Hospital and news of poverty in Iceland are a black spot in Icelandic society. It's not a big deal to handle this case for a community as rich as Iceland is. Building a high-tech hospital is enough if the underlying health problems cannot be resolved. It is a minimum requirement that the National Hospital receive the funds needed to maintain a stable level of service. Although money sources increase from year to year, they are largely in terms of compensation. The rest goes on a new assignment, in particular a new epidemic unit, and a new nursing staff operation. It is a joy to see that the number of nurses is being opened up and increased, but financial support for these projects does little to make up for what is lacking in other areas. The review of the Land Hospital calls for the collapse of the hospital's restraints and for an increase of $3.4 billion. This is not a permanent solution, but it is only what is needed to maintain an unchanged level of service. The proposals of the more part depend on moving budgets from point to point of view, thus increasing the budget by 750 million. K. The health system is not such that the hospital's financial resources can be increased by taking money from other sources, e.g. the joints to be treated at the cost of medicine. It's virtual, not responding to the hospital's pleas. Thus, in the joint adjustments made by the Blocks and other groups of directors, proposals are made to cancel the requirements of the Land Hospital and the keeping of the Hospital in Akureyri, and contributions are proposed to be made in line with the physical growth of the health system. More medical institutions than the Landskeeper calls for increased financial resources because of ongoing management problems. Health agencies in the country sent a petition to the budget committee because the budgets of the budget are not sufficient to maintain a stable operation. Because of this, a group of people, along with other groups of government opposition, suggest that there will be an increase of $100 million on their budget. K. I believe that this substation of the health system is one of the underlying problems in the health system. We simply don't put enough money into the foundation business. Of course, the hospital's management system changes can be made to improve economy, but there have been attempts, fingernails cut in recent years, and questions about how far we can go in this regard. It will only be compared to looking at hospitals elsewhere in the North countries, what is being put in its production modules, how much Icelanders are putting in each production unit in the hospital, and I think the Icelandic health system is not expensive, is a relatively wasteful system, that we are not spending much on each production unit. Regarding psychiatric services for all: During the last term, the General agreed that health insurance was advising essential therapy. So it was surprising when the secretary of finance announced that money would not follow up on the project. After much controversy within and outside the council, the government finally agreed to give a total of 100 million. K. to the project. Evidently, there are 100 million. K. effective dose in these substances. As a guide, there are other sources of funds in the same language range of some 790 million. K. due to increased dental costs from year to year. We must take decisive action to finance psychological services appropriately. The global epidemic had a profound negative impact on people's well - being. Children experienced major disturbances in daily life, and high school students lost their social activities during the most important formative years. Today, many people became socialally isolated, and those in a vulnerable place for the epidemic are at a low rate. The government's payment program for psychological services should be self-employed. Likely, the danger is that they may not be able to get help. Thus, joint changes in the government's proposals are suggested to increase financial resources by 900 million. K. to finance psychology services. If I get it right, it's one of the things they're talking about with the government parties or the Congress so we can have a normal assembly, I think that, at least, I hope I'm right. Regarding nursing status: Despite the marvelous promises of the government classes, it appears that there is no need for necessary physical reform in nursing and rehabilitation services. The nursing home has long been called for financial contributions to account for the increased weight of nursing. The length of waiting lists causes people to enter the homes weaker than before. The policy of the government of this class does not seem to take into account the long anticipated aging of the nation. By no means will the government's strategy work down the list of waitings, and it will not be successful to complete projects at its appointed time. As a result, people stay in unacceptable matters, which are also much more expensive in business. This situation is a major reason for the failure to solve the flow problem of Land Hospital, as I mentioned earlier. It's a simple solution. Build more nursing homes and secure funding for their business. The nation's age should be a cause for rejoicing. We are to enjoy living longer than previous generations. Instead, governments intend to ignore the problem. The result is long waiting classes and constant debates between nursing homes, rural society, and the State over who should pay for the business. To me this is reflected in this, e.g. on Hornfjord, a problem in the relationship between the government and the local community. It has to solve the problem, and it is much simpler, I believe, that the rural communities will get businesses to operate in that business, decently doing the work they're supposed to do, but not assigning jobs from the state each year that are fundless. We can take the NAP deal, if that's true. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of in his committee, for example. There are 79 people who will not get that deal next year, which, as I calculate, means they won't get the legal service. The involvement of these individuals in society and in life is then greatly impaired. It is very important to view these matters, the welfare issues, from the individuals who use this service. The bill for funding includes a significant reduction in the donations made to nursing homes. Operational contributions decline by 1.1 billion. from year to year because the increase of the last budget is said to have been a temporary contribution. There is also a 400 billion keepup. K. According to the Social Services Association, it is necessary to avoid planned cuts to ensure the location of a nursing home. In addition, contributions from year to year have to be made so that financial support will follow pay and prices and increase the weight of nursing. The people are happy that, although only partially indicated, there is a need to respond to these suggestions. An enterprise's organization in welfare services suggests that the budget needs are 3 billion. But more than a portion of the legal committee contributes $1.2 billion. for improved shift work. This should be increased by 1 billion dollars. ... onthebaseofthefloor. A total of 2.2 billion. There's no way to tell whether 1.2 billion bucks. enough to cover the increase in pay costs, which is, in fact, not an increase in donations in the management database, but a decline in the plans for a year - long cut. Hopefully, we will achieve a greater solidarity across groups of improvements in this category in the near future. We must take steps when it comes to the affairs of the elderly. Everyone deserves a lifetime of care. The safe basis for nursing care is a key factor in this. I just want to do a little piece on the U.S.A. It has long been one of the main struggles of the movers to secure the base of the industry. The Agency provides essential health care based on a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance, but the contract is only enough for a fraction of the cost of operating. During the New Year's season, the contribution of the last budget will be temporary. THE U.S. count is 380 million. K. failure to achieve full efficiency of the hospital Vogs Commenting on the U.S. financial bill, health authorities are using only 70% of their performance at the hospital Vigs. Meanwhile, there's a delay, and today 600 people are waiting to make it to Vog. The organization contributes to financing by the annual Elvish sale, a disgrace to society when charities need to raise money to finance their own health care costs. We do not have to raise money to finish the last roadside every year. It is time for a change of mind in this group of subjects. Addictions cause a number of premature deaths each year. Health care for those who suffer from addiction should be fully financed by the General Assembly. A greater proportion of the budgetary committees suggest that the U.S.A. will be granted a temporary contribution of up to 120 million. K. That's not good enough. We must properly finance these medical services. The organization asks for 380 million. K. and thus the group of people, along with other groups of government positions, suggests that donations increase by 380 million. K. to finance S.A. In the case of desperate and elderly humans, in the case of blundering: Year after year, the government has ignored clear instructions from 69 C.E. Act on social security. A bill this is no exception. The law allows the pensions of social security to be accompanied by pay development. There's a bit of pay. Remuneration rates have increased by 7.5% per year. Instead of setting the basis for a pay card number, the budget is set according to the average number of elevations and proposed to a 3.8% increase in pension time from year to year. At the top of this increase, the minister of finance has improved 0.8% because of the lack of inflation of the last budget. So together, it's a 4-6% increase in social security pension. At the top of these 4.6% will receive invalids an additional 1%, and older people will receive a higher income market for employment. Unchanged in the jaw grows from year to year. In recent decades, rich pensioners have not followed the purchase power of millions of dollars, and they now number up to tens of percent. Pension workers cannot go to strike to demand correction. Thus, their interests are not usually given priority to the government. The General Assembly of the Icelanders is to protect the interests of all members of the community and ensure that pensioners will not be discriminated against in this way. A detailed recommendation in the 69th grit on social security is aimed at ensuring this. The EC of Iceland points out that there will be an increase in progress, taking into account the inflation of the bill, less than 4,000 dollars. between. This will only result in a 1.5% rise. It does not take much to go wrong to erase the benefits of this 1.5% increase, since inflation does not seem to result. Inflation is always worst for those mentioned among the hands. Groups of people, along with other groups of government opposition, suggest that the pensions of social security increase to the level of pay development. This is a minimum requirement for ensuring legal correction from year to year and preventing growing jawping. With regard to the commercial market, it is said to raise the share of pensions for the sake of a job of about a hundred thousand dollars. It's a change for the better, and it's been going on for years. The people have long fought for the loss of their holiday target. Everyone's advantage is for people to work regardless of their age, and many people want to stay in a job market, past their pension age. It increases knowledge of work places and promotes public health. The state will not suffer financial losses by raising the pay market, for increasing the work of older people is making more tax pay and contributing to economic growth, except for social benefits that cannot be valued for financial gain. According to the budget bill, the cost of an insurance agency is growing by 540 billion. K. due to an increase in the holiday market. This amount is calculated by calculating the lost. The funds returned on the income side are not taken into account by increasing the elderly's employment activities. People's party welcomes the increase but also encourages a body of Congress to give careful thought to whether there is a reason to eliminate all the problems of professional pension. The levels and reductions due to the income of the social security system are contrary to the presumption of the national three-sized biofuel system, where all support is expected to be effective. These support are government social security, insurance insurance rights and individual special savings. In its review to the budget bill, the European Parliament calls for the same correction on the free income market as on the pensioner's pension. For more than a decade, the income market for businesses has remained unchanged. How disappointing, then, that there is no room for equal justice in these matters! The same evidence applies in both cases. It can be added that the micro-organic population is in all age groups. They are not just of the oldest citizens. They are people of their best age who may want to be involved in their professional activities, and they are so important that they have opportunities to do so without impairment. I believe that micro-terrestrial deficiency is actually a ready poverty trap for this group. In addition to the fact that the poor have difficulty in getting into a job market and are subject to cruel impairments, the civilian market does not have a problem with getting into the job market. The benefits are low, and the risk is that disability will be re-evaluated before the work is fully adjusted. People have repeatedly called for changes of viewpoint in this area. We want disability workers to work for up to two years without being affected and without reexamination. A similar arrangement was adopted in Sweden and has led to great success. Groups of people, as well as other groups of government positions, suggest that the payout target of the industry is rising, thereby promoting increased employment involvement and improved public health. This is a minimum requirement to ensure equal participation in employment and survival without impairment. That is exactly what the job freedom calls for. For housing: In recent years, housing has not been maintained. As a result of these and other factors, housing prices have grown tremendously, or they grow to power. Inflation has taken over, with its effect on domestic payment. House prices are the largest joint going on inflation today. This has to stop. It is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to get into a house market, and each apartment is at odds. Some 40% of the apartments in the capital area are sold over predetermined prices, and the average period of apartment sales has never been shorter. To meet this trend, we need to increase the supply of housing. Hence, a group of people, as well as other groups at government positions, suggest that the legal rights of the press of 3110 raise about 3.5 billion dollars. In order to double the government's establishment budget for the sake of public apartments. This is to increase the supply of cheap housing for low-aching and intermediate employees. Increased supply should lead to a lower price, at least to reduce elevations. This is fundamental to affecting inflation because the inflation in Iceland is largely home-made, driven on by rising prices for housing. With regard to guide dogs: The General Assembly agreed in June. a change in the law that the state fund should provide funds to obtain, train, and import guide dogs in line with demand. It is important to ensure funding for this task. According to the Ministry, 10 million have been calculated. K. to hire a full - time dog trainer, and three guide dogs are being introduced next year. Several people are waiting for a guide dog, and the General has already agreed to meet the needs of the blind for the aid of a guide dog. So let us follow along with a flaunting financing. The people want to go further and more 50 million. K. to the jury. These funds would shorten the waiting list by guide dogs and ensure that funding is sufficient for the training of dogs and owners in the management of guide dogs, which can enhance the quality of life of the blind. For blood flow: The donor must immediately ban blood flow from pregnant mares unless necessary for the treatment of sick animals. It is not only moral wrongdoing and undefeated ill - treatment of defenseless animals but also an enormous lack of respect for international image. As soon as the law forbids blood transfusion, it must improve the loss of the income they will eventually face. Thus, a group of people suggests that budgets will be increased by 210 million. K. to improve this loss of income. The sum is similar to that of blood farmers each year for selling blood from packed mares. It is our sincere hope in the Son of Man that in time, the General Assembly will ban this zoo before the start of the next blood harvest. Regarding the importance of a new British vector: It is necessary to invest in a new Brefjörður vector as soon as possible. Travel transport plays a key role in the development of employment and based development in Western and Western countries. Old Baldur is in his early teens and does not meet modern convenience requirements for passenger transport, and looks for increased demand for freight transport, e.g. ... fromgreatfishing on the Westlands. In addition, Baldur is not equipped with a backup machine and has needed more than once assistance for the motor cars. The Fourth Western Union and rural areas in Western lands have repeatedly called for the arrival of old Mjöljófur to be used for ferry voyages on the British side until the arrival of a new ferry. This is a wise arrangement, since the ship is not in use at the moment. In this way, ferry cruises can be greatly promoted and the safety of passengers can be assured until new ships are ready for use. I know that waterfronts need to be taken, even deepened, and that's where money needs to be placed. Such ports would be a permanent investment as well as a depth of appreciation at the docks. So a group of people suggest that they be authorized to sell on General III. ... you'regoingoutofthesixth floor. The bill. A planned sale at Iceland Bank and a warrant for sale on stocks in U.S. Bank: The financial bill has the authority to sell all the shares of the bank's savings in Iceland. In June. The state sold 35% of the money in the bank, and each buyer made over 20% in one night. The price has now increased by about 60%, so it is clear to everyone what kind of fire sale occurred. Then you can find in the financial bill a warrant for selling 30% of the government's stocks at the Bank of the Lands. It's a big deal. Icelanders know how important the possession of society's largest banks is. So we learned a lesson in the fall in October 2008. The General Assembly of the Icelanders must take their stand on these plans in a direct manner and vote against the government's selling the nation's valuable property on a special discount. The General must ensure the interests of the nation and the community when it comes to determining the ownership of these important banks. By dismissing these sources, these votes are held in the hall, and then members of Congress should be able to turn this down, and this would lead to further discussions later on about selling the banks, to whom to sell them, and it is fundamental that bank owners stand up for expectations and trust. We learned that from the personalization of the banks in 2003. Hence, a group of people suggests that there is authority in the 6th paragraph. The bill for sale of the stock market in Iceland Bank and the Bank of Lands will be removed. At the end, I'd like to mention points related to the income of the state's funds: During the last term, the government decided to reduce bank taxes and fishing fees. State funds lost because of these changes are significant. It is fundamental that those who use the nation's resources for their own good pay pay full price for their use. Fishing costs are hardly a drop in the ocean at the fishing plant, as the cost of an enterprise in the fishing industry is 333 billion dollars. While hunting charges return only 7 billion dollars. In 2018 the fishing fees paid $11.5 billion. and, in fact, could have charged more. This is not the priority of money for the people. The Kingdom will be of over 10 billion dollars. Each year because the banks and the fishing works wanted to lower taxes. The government groups responded to this will. A group of people, along with other groups of government opposition, suggest that the wealth of the state will be increased by about 4 billion dollars. ... witha higher catch fee. Groups of people, as well as other groups of government positions, also suggest that changes in the calculated amount of money are made to prevent payment from paying income tax. This would increase the tax pay of the state's budget by 6 billion dollars. In addition, the group of people suggests that the reduction of the bank tax will be reassigned and that the pay will be increased by 6 billion dollars. The decrease in bank tax cost lost 6 billion dollars in income. A year's basis. This reduction was to lead to a better interest rate, but there are other factors. The banks were amazed at the loss of direction for a long time, but they responded, like racing drivers in the speed questions of Guess magazine, when the growth of the steering growths increased. The reduction in the bank tax was only an increase in bank prices and a decrease in the income of state funds. With regard to the bank tax, I would like to point out that the main evidence is that there is simply no competition for bank markets in Iceland. The banks take advantage of the profits and profits of banks based on national production, and the economy is way too high. I know that in other countries, when banks get over a certain level of profits, they are simply protests in the community, both public and professional, and other stakeholders. We have to start doing something so that we can run a real community where the capital market is doing the system, doing business. The bank market can be compared to plumbing, and it is clear that there is too much money being sucked out of the economy by these plumbing laws, but they would be more useful in valuables and in the interests of national sector. The people have repeatedly suggested a local payment on deposit in a pension fund. In this way, the income of the state's funds can be increased considerably without any mismanagement of the household's income. Thus the need for changes in the social security system, increase in taxation levels, and attack the needs of health benefits. It is not an option to allow the health and welfare system to decay and increase the year between the poor and the rich. It's simply not a decent rich and small society the way Iceland is. The opportunity is there. What are we waiting for? The priorities of money. People first! And then the rest. Finally, as a new council member at the Icelandic Parliament and as a member of the budget board, I want to thank my fellow members for their good and enjoyable cooperation. I have found many pleasant surprises. Before I started my job here, I was nervous about starting a little first, having a long time with members of the government or with those who disagreed, but it's been a lot more fun than I thought to be involved in this work. I look forward to the work next year, and I think we can add a lot on common ground, like having the budget better and more beneficial for people. They should be a reading that the public and the media can study and participate in discussions. To me, the law of the law is as it is presented today as a closed book. It seems to be the same document - I'm an old financial employee sent out a template, some document, and it fills out the numbers, and it's put into the budget. These are the same paragraphs over and over with different numbers. I think it could be a very easy and fun job to increase the transparency of this financial bill in the future, and it should be a small, lazy task if everyone turns on one thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u36	Madam President. I have to start by thanking you. A senator for his history and thanks for warm words to us in the majority of the committees. I can only agree with that, as I said in my answer to what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and thank you for the cooperation of the Committee that has been extremely good. Even if we don't agree on all things, it's just as it is. But the work on the Committee has been good. I'd like to start by saying that I agree with his opinion on the importance of our checking out the possibility of a new British vector. I think it's a very important matter, and we know, members of the district, three of the four people in the Senate Hall, what it means to be here. Similarly, I agree with the nursing home. It is a very important task that we increase it and make room all over the country. However, I wanted to ask a few questions about the premises and the housing team that had come in earlier. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator only on the projects or on the avenues we have taken in an effort to deal with the problems on this market. On the one hand, it's the share loans we've already made, I think, 286 share loans. In the general apartments, if I understand why. Some 17,2 billion from 2016 have been put in some 2,900 apartments, with an estimated 90 billion building. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And the same project Faithfulness. I'd like to hear from you. A senator will feel as he is aware of the actions that have already been carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator 1st. Witchest. "for the counter. With regard to housing matters, I view things this way: There is inflation in the world and there is inflation in Iceland. Admittedly, global inflation affects in Iceland. But part of Iceland's inflation is at home. That's where the biggest part is the housing business. Of course, funding has been put on this, into share loans, and in more places, but better if it works. In fact, there are the reasons for these 3.5 billion, to do more, to increase and provide funds to increase the production of housing, more opportunities, and so for underpayers and employers. That's the basic thought behind this. It's just a supply and demand. There is a lack of housing, especially for underpayers and middle carers. You see it a little here in Reykjavík, you've heard the song about a luxury apartment for the wealthy here in the middle of town and there's always news of it. But it's just gonna have to be a big challenge. This was a major challenge in the development of Breinholts back then and when people were up to the trouble. We need to get into a really big fight. In part, it's money that comes back to the State. They're investing in housing and putting bonds on it as clients pay off. There is no point in giving money. And in these suggestions, you are not putting on the demand side. That's what I think is fundamental. I think it's much better to do this on the forward side. True, much has been done, but this suggestion aims to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u38	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. What I'm looking for may be: The ways and measures that governments have taken in order to try to deal with the problems of the housing market in Iceland - see below. A senator realizes that the funds he wishes and suggested, these 3.5 billion, will come into the present system, or is he thinking of any other and new means? And what are the ways? And I'd also like to ask him a little about something else. The fact that the problem was, in fact, three factors, was very clear: State capital, rural society, and then market. That's what I'm talking about. A senator does not agree with me that this is a project not only under the government but also with other members?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u39	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, there are others who need to come, that's for sure. And, as planned for the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, we also need to simplify our organizational affairs and simplify all the processes for building facilities and actual infrastructure as well. But the government is just such a big party that it's what would move on. In fact, rural areas in Iceland are very special. We have one major group here and a large corporation in the capital area, and then a big one in Akureyri, and then we have very small communities all over the country. But the State is simply the big party that they must take the initiative and take the lead in these matters. It should be provided with a legal adjustment to increase the rate of household production. We suggest that legal rights at 31st,10 raise about 3.5 billion dollars. to double the government stock supply due to general dwellings. We're talking about the state doubleing the contribution there is, and it should be done in the extra supply of housing after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u40	President. Whatever it is. The last person to talk about is what I would like to draw attention to. In his work called the Committee, he said that the law was just that closed book, which would be indiscriminate in the laws of the law. It's really weird. That's exactly what I've been complaining about in my years on a budget board, where the budget is the financial authority that the Congress approves for the execution of power to follow. And if you try to get some information from the budget bill, and even a follow-up with a little more accurate, you really have no idea why they're there. You have little idea why this and that other project need 600 million and, to a large extent, what is being discussed in the budget bill. There's a lot of publicity on the economic issues, which are good and blessed and so on, but when it comes to accepting the total budget for one case or another, we really have no idea what we're going to approve of. It's, for example. so remarkable about the change in our proposal in the memory of the part that there is a motion in the microenvironmental field that is going to increase the job limit and then to be paid up the bracing. But this sums up as a single amount, 2.5 billion, not as 1 billion and 1.5 billion, which means that when we're about to vote on these proposals at the Senate Hall, we can't vote on who it is, a remarkable piece, because perhaps the greater part would like to vote for one part and not the other, but it can't be done because the computer says no. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u41	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I learned this in law school, and I've learned it many times before that if you're going to tell someone about it, you should say it to him, write it down, as if he doesn't know anything about it. This financial bill isn't like that. It seems that you actually have to do this for a few years so that you can understand this book completely and have some background information. That's the first thing you'll see. It's very simple to do this in a simple way, I think. Now, here are terms like budget range, which I think is an increase in budget. Why don't they just call it an increase? It's a straddler who walks through the budget, but it's only in some places. You don't know exactly where it is, it's so floating. It's the spirit or the mood of the bill. And then you see the team, and you see this goes up. In one place, I remember it was a 4.9 million. K. ... buta cutoffrange of 50 million. K. Then I calculated, "Wait, this is a raise of 9.1 billion." K.? I think I'm right. There are things like that. Regarding how the council can vote: The bill must also be shaped in a way that the council can vote for certain terms, but the bill does not seem to be designed. It seems to be designed from some kind of government accounting and government account rather than for the council, a representative of the public who has the legal authority. It seems to be designed more for the system, the Ministry. I think there's a mistake in methodology, and I think that it would be very interesting, in the force of transparency and in the new laws of public finance, where transparency was increased, to make this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u42	President. We have these new laws on government finance. As good as they are on paper, they are not doing so. Many of this financial bill is about the change from earlier on and how it's gonna be next. It is a lot about limited expenses, but decisions have already been made, and the State has already committed to the financial, approved law, or something like that. Remuneration and prices are different. This change is discussed from last year until next year's. So when you're going to check, wait, but what did all that so-called frame mean? And I'm asking, "How much would a legal assignment be involved? ' What are the costs now, and why? And the simple question: How much will this legal project of the Agency cost? No answers. They don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u43	A respectable president. Regarding legal tasks, which are set up in a set of laws, such as the MPA contracts, which are to be handled, but the budget is limited, it can mean that they are not handled according to law. But it's part of the government's economic regime, and it can't be taken into the state's economic government and put in on this legal project. She has to be in need of money at any moment. So I can't say that other laws should be embezzled. It's not working at all. But I'd like to say about the whole budget, about the presentation and the other things, that it's very easy to solve. You can only find the best in this world, go to OECD, find kingdoms, and find out who is doing this in a way that the greatest transparency exists. Money in Iceland isn't big. [[The president calls.]] There are countries that are much, much bigger than Iceland who are sure to be making it reasonable and simple. [[The president calls.]] And we have a great opportunity to improve this book. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u44	Madam President. I'd like to thank you too. A senator of prehistoric history who congratulates him on his first committee opinion as presented here. In many ways I must declare my joy with that, because here I feel I have reached the core of the matter, which is just politics, pure and smart politics, less about shape. There are a number of factors that would be a reason and a pleasure to discuss why. A senator he handles at his committee party. I would particularly like to agree with his discussion of disability on page. 8 That refers to Swía's experience in helping micro-terrestrials out of a microenergy system, which goes into the labour market. I think it's worth a lot to see if we're going that way. I think it's very important, especially for the individuals who have been in this position, that we are very supportive of them, that they do not close the door behind them, they decide to step out to the labour market in this way. But for word's sake. I would like to continue with the discussion as a matter of course. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Stefánsson's chariot made an answer to a prominent man. This was made very clear at a meeting of the budget committee, and I'm going to pray. Because it was basically the big change that happened to our guest from the Industrial Association, it is also of great importance to the development and organizational importance of our community. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who deals with the housing and housing market and housing operations, does not consider this to be one of the major factors in whether there is sufficient housing for all groups and thus makes normal prices for the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u45	President. I want to thank you. A senator for warm words to me as well. This is so much fun work on a budget board. In terms of disability at a labour market, I believe it is essential for an Icelandic society to take better care of microorganism and encourage them to go into the labour market, seek self-sufficiency. And the same is true of older citizens. I think the Icelandic community is a little tough on these matters. It would soften the discussion and add to the general peace of society if these issues were addressed in order to make this a top priority. With regard to housing markets: It is absolutely true that there must be property and that the local community needs to be expedient. They're the ones with the planning, etc. But the rural communities around the country - we're not a federality. Companys have a legal role, the central government that sets the box and explains what assignments they have. The government may place certain incentives to increase or ask for of them in negotiations or even by law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u46	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I just want to get on with it. I completely agree with the approach. A senator has regarding the organizational authority of a community and the factors, that we do not have the government's authority in that regard. But what do you think? Then a senator is responsible for the local community at an apartment market, such as, for example, Here in the capital city, where some have noted that lack of property has simply raised the price of an apartment building, causing people to suffer the same challenges? Then I want to say something about something. A member of the Parliament, because he here refers to the administration and the minister's office, that a greater proportion of the legal committee now proposes in his capacity to cut down funds, especially in order to make room and get funds to use for these changes in the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u47	Thank you. A senator for the second answer. The government can affect rural areas. It has financial ability, as well as legal guidance. I believe that if your country's rural areas fail to carry out this obligation, the government will simply be to act in a certain way. It is totally unacceptable that the largest rural society in the country does not provide adequate housing for its inhabitants, for those Icelanders who want to live in the capital area and in the city of Reykjavík. It's totally unacceptable. If I got the right comment. A senator regarding the changes in the Ministry is naturally being made with extra funding to do so. But I believe that the Minister's in many ways unthinkable, both form, how it's done, about the President, about the adjustment of the law and the Senate, so I don't talk about the vow, and how the language is divided between counseling. I hope that's what the government is rethinking from the bottom of the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u48	A respectable president. I'm standing here on behalf of what? paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter, in my third section of the Board of Justice, is going to present her opinion on the committee. Before I bring up the subject of the committee's opinion, I am moved to say a few words in the context of things and to consider the circumstances under which we are discussing these laws. I think it can be seen by every man, by the opinions of the committee that have come from the smaller parts and the changes that the lesser part could join together, that they have been doing their very best on this committee. That's why it's a very cold greeting from the highest level. Secretary of finance, when it is said that it is a terrible fragility to ask that members of this committee be brought to light by the committee's opinion. A political decision was made to vote in the fall. The greater groups, the greater part, took eight weeks to conduct a administrative discussion, and the result is that the budget has been uninvolved. Everything has been worked under a great amount of time pressure, and little time has been given to receive sources and ask for information from individual advisers. The preparation period for a meeting of the budget committee has been very limited, and members of the Committee had to dislodge nearly all other responsibilities at the council just to care for the committee. In view of this, it is extremely low to pretend that there is a prerogative for political debate over the budget, a political debate openly open in daylight, with which the common people have the right to be able to observe as well as the media. According to that, I'm going to read my section 3 on the committee's opinion. It may be right to run over the points that depend on the time pressure that I now went over and directly on the subject of the bill and the commission. The report on the budget contains the following innuendo, focusing on small changes from the budget of last spring: However, at the time of the bill preparation, the primary objective has been made that the number of new or increased costs will not be further than those related to the conditions caused by the Korean virus epidemic. Also, there is no excessive movement on the income side of the budget in connection with the tax system management plans, apart from temporary measures for the epidemic that reverses. This is of interest in the fact that since the release of financial programs into spring, the economic situation has changed considerably. Next year the debt of state funds was estimated to be 42% of land production. They're now believed to be 35%. In the meantime, a new government was created where eight weeks were used to build a government contract in which such great changes were proclaimed in government policy during the upcoming terms to replace all the administrations in order to handle the scope. This discrepancy is brought to the attention of government debates, the text of a government contract, and the figures displayed in government financial policy throughout the ideal period. It is said that there was a lack of harmony between a government covenant and a financial policy. This is in accordance with the image displayed in the production of a financial bill. The budget of a new government is the first test to see if its promises are significant. Now the government has shown the game about the first quarter of the season and does not seem to make much of that promise. The scope of the State Fund action over the last two years reflects the necessary response to a pandemic. They do not reflect a policy or a parish. The third year is the year when response issues are controlled and there is little room for needed improvement on the public bases for the protection of the welfare and the application of new times. This reflects the basic focus of government over the past few years. The country is and has been directed by a government that believes that the State should play only a safety net. The wealth is a kind of observer, not an economic candidate, and not just a response to an emergency. The main focus of economic management is to step in when everything falls together but back when the inflation of the joint becomes tense. A little discussion will be made about the importance of putting the market and the box around them to change the underlying problems in the system. That attitude is a historical explanation that our welfare systems fell out of heaven. The fact is, the welfare systems were especially built up to meet the social policies of the State, and they need a steady review. The community is the result of the government's molding of society. It is based on policy and vision of the role of the government, the understanding that the government must have the perspective and ability to coordination in the community to prevent people from falling apart, from falling between systems, and from opportunities. It is necessary to ensure the efficacy of all and the potential for involvement in society. This is a vital foundation for professional life and for the entire smell of society. Regarding this, what I was describing here, the social agreement between the welfare state, the welfare society, turns that we are assured of the misfortunes by filing into our systems and getting out of them according to our circumstances and needs. It's a little different now. This disorder has somehow occurred in a discussion of the welfare community, and even in a debate by political parties who consider themselves to be a advocate of equalism and welfare, that these important systems of ours can be maintained with much less payment on social security and without active involvement in the community. The form of this political system can be found in many of the budgeted bill here. The budget on which this budget is based suggests that the income of a state fund as a share of GDP will be the lowest in the century by the end of the season. The same is true when we consider the public as a whole. This suggests that the government will take responsibility for today's major projects. More importantly, this is in a crying contradiction to the basic prince in the operation of a welfare community. You see, it's based on subsidies in the system. How will our welfare systems meet the major challenges ahead, which are already causing problems, if the status of the State Fund near the end of this election period, be worse on the income side than it was for the current shock, the crown virus? A successful society based on an active state, the active application of a government, of course, calls for a government that takes responsibility for the economic situation and for the imbalance that can arise. Despite the reversal of the economy, such imbalances have developed, especially on property markets, which have leaked into the land's prices. It's even The result of the government's action at Covid. Almost all of today's extra prices beyond inflation targets are attributed to an increase in the cost of an apartment market. What kind of community is that? What kind of welfare society is it that ignores such evolution? A government cannot be considered a real government if they feel that they have no weapons to deal with a crisis on the market in terms of shelter for ordinary people, a market created by laws and regulations in the land, created by us, the Lawgiver. This difference in the importance of government operations in a welfare community has also leaked into the relationship between employees and employees in the country. Enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises where pay is more than a part of the budget, have everything to do with the effective welfare and public action. the need for remuneration. The Norwegian welfare community, which is based on a powerful welfare union in cooperation with the private enterprise, aims exactly to promote the company's positive attitude toward government action, especially in dress and grooming, which ensures a balance in the labour market. The government that now sits and the groups that have been represented in the past few years, seems somehow to have broken this foundation of the welfare state by lack of policy and lack of policy in the labour markets. Few if a few suggestions have come from the government in recent years in terms of choice but when it is heading for a strike. It's always this kind of reaction. Then there is a complaint about workaholic imbalance, and when the unions always blame each other. The government seems to be ensuing into inflation, which binds her hands to the needed welfare reforms and parishion for future generations. It is pretended to be the public to teach and others to resolve from it rather than simply to view their role as a doer, as a shaper in society, and to reexamine the foundations of the economy that cause this inflation. Instead, inflation is used as an excuse for inactivity. Of course, the most serious sign is the position of more sensitive groups in society. A significant debate over income balances in the country has been discussed, but these rarely look to groups who are not making money on a public market and have no right to strike and contract. It should be noted that basic poverty payments have fallen far back from economic development in the country. The budget of the budget, the ideal period after the term period, increases in dress and pensions, between the poor and the general markets between the seniors, especially the lowest paid, and the general market population, and it is now estimated to be about 90,000 dollars. on the basic pensions and the lowest wage in the country. In addition to this, governments in the past decade have held back the rise in the cost market of disability, which means in the human language that disability does not even get the opportunity to earn a decent income, a job, to compensate for their lack of contracts with the State. We see that this is what the Treaty referred to in the Treaty, which speaks of the need to increase the activity of disability, etc. But when we in the management position offer solutions, such as raising the company's annual income market, which has been a major requirement for the Microcollar Community, something that it shows in each of the budgets, there is no listening. Then it's ignored. So it's all in word. Keep in mind that in the case of high prices in the land, the commercial market for industry would be twice as much as the current amount. It hasn't moved since 2010. In view of the status of older people in the country who depend on insurance payments, they find it more natural that because of their out - of - date decommissionment, the payment of a insurance agency will be gone as soon as people take something out of a pension fund of more than 25,000 dollars. That's when the TR basics start to get affected. In another year, microorganisms are kept in a straitjacket of poverty because the system is being revised. It is always said that it is important to increase people's effectiveness and reduce the incidence of disability, about which the government's policy in our welfare. But does it make sense? Remember, the highest incidence of disability is among women aged 55 years and older. You can even say that. Tracks to work and family loads. However, there is a very high incidence of disability among young people, including for mental illness. A large proportion of the women work in care and health care, where the state is a huge motor force at work. The nursing homes in the country are, despite an emergency addition to 2nd. This financial bill, subversive and unfundable bill, and it will continue to exist. Severe neglect is revealed in the funding of our national hospital where a greater proportion of the legal committee seems to ignore the clear messages of the Land Hospital as well as the Akureyri Hospital on the necessary extra funds to maintain a civilian budget of 2 billion dollars. That argument is given for the 2 billion bucks. If conventional pays for the expected real-life of these health institutions have been received to deal with population growth and aging, demographic factors, they can be found in the payment for better health care care hours. For further explanation, the argument is this: The Kingdom is saying to respond to increased stress among health professionals by reducing work hours, such as those in the North countries around us. To manage your changed work time, you need to increase your levels and pay for them. The aim of better shift hours is clear; to reduce stress. But for this less strain, it is paid with money that would otherwise be used to deal with the increasing pressures of population growth and aging, which are called real growth. So here we are to zero this effect of better shift work hours during the first year. And who is this lack of understanding? Yes, the women mentioned earlier, who serve in the health and welfare systems around the country, and who are under great pressure. That's the biggest incidence of disability. These are the same women who were to reduce the incidence of disability. The bill of killing a psychological service under the health insurance system is still inexpensive in these funds. And according to the way the minister of finance spoke earlier, he must not change his mind. There's 400 billion of them. K. In mental health matters, which, of course, is not a high figure in connection with the scope of the problem and the long - term neglect of mental - health services in Iceland. Added to this, there is no understanding of the importance of raising the cost of disability in order to improve effectiveness in this group. It is not being strengthened, activated, despite declarations that increasing emphasis on the rate of disability is the reason for the people who are already in disability to continue to suffer in need. This is made clear in the priorities of the government's budget, which is specifically considered in a future discussion where lower rates of disability are used as a reason to move 600 million. K. from the category of paints in the name of maintenance instead of using the funds released through a lower incidence to support basics from the system. The pernicious nature of most people today is the situation in housing. Despite the tremendous increase in apartment prices in recent years and the apparent market failures, there are no new resources to be found in the budget. These housing prices are not good for the public, company and public, as there is pay and prices that are attributed to the increase in real estate, one of the biggest changes in the state's budget. Injuries such economic management of rural society, which runs a human-level service where pay costs are more than half the cost of expenses. Thus, the lack of stability of this government in an apartment market has promoted a cycle of prices that still remain uninhabited from the construction of these budgets. An example of the effect of inaction on housing in Iceland in this budget bill is that it required reevaluating last year's financial expenses for inflation. The Vasculitis was 1.7% higher in the prior year than expected. The additional cost of protection is about 3.6 billion. It is as much as the government puts in investments in the general apartment system here on land, in investments in housing, practical housing. A system that could hold back the anticipated future increases, in order to get ahead of these increases. The government's reaction to 1st. of the budget bill was saying that there would be changes in the affairs of the legal committee. After two weeks of work, however, the situation has not been changed. It was added 13 billion to the bill following a proposal from the government. 60% of the budget is due to the Covid actions, 25% because of emergency assistance to the nursing homes and the contracting amount of NPA that should have appeared immediately in the bill. 6%, more than 700 million. K., is for the affairs of a government contract. Similar amounts, or 500 million, are proposed for changes in the Council of Control. In this bill, we are presented by the Treaty by the Treaty as comparable to the sum of money into the management department of new recruitments and to the issues of the entirety. In the United States, there is a general agreement on a strong welfare state, but the experience of reading the financial bill is that there is a government that has inherited a welfare system that it doesn't understand. We need to make constant changes because of the social welfare systems that create the basis for the welfare of our society. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in insurmountable holes that need to be bridged. These fractures need to be corrected when they appear, since the foundation is weakened that reduces the capacity of people to be active in society, reduces social unity, and reduces the number of persons who are capable of moving ahead. We owe one another as a community to strengthen the foundation upon which we all grow. We owe one another to update the Community Convention on the welfare of our country at regular intervals. So let's get back to coverage on individual topics. First, innovation, research, and knowledge. In recent years, the increase in government emphasis on innovation and knowledge is to be welcomed. However, as early as 223 C.E., donations return to the seminar, lowering them by a third of the figures in the bill. This category also shows the consequences of the government's flat standards. The metal party reads up to 30 billion and is that it is funded as financed for innovation and knowledge. The real operation in the litigation group that fits within the administration is just a fraction of this amount. The responsibly placed on the mercenary body causes a contribution to the fund to be reduced, instead of promoting increased management in the administration. This is an example of a very significant way of managing government matters, all that is to be done is by clean cuts. It takes searching for ways to manipulate. Sometimes, e.g. investing in solutions that reduce long term operating costs. This calls for cost at first. If governments are to be serious when it comes to maintaining government management, they need to maintain structured measures, review any tasks that have failed to meet the management program, rather than stipulate a flat maintenance requirement. It doesn't work in the long run, it just makes cost somewhere else. Then to rural society and rural development: it has been reported that there are 9 billion dollars. lack of speech in the community of disabled people, just so that local communities can carry out legal duties in this area. The problem can be solved for the transfer of the group at its time from state to country society, where the cost of induction of services to disabled persons was underestimated entirely. It is noteworthy that despite this assessment, as well as the reviews received from the European Union and the Micro-Communication Association, there is no way in the bill to reduce the underdevelopment of the Party. A large part of the tilt of many rural communities today is attributed to an extra donation due to a group of disabled persons involved. In this context it can be noted that according to government financial policy, the survival and debt ratings of the local community have improved in terms of terms of financial policy since the introduction of the financial programme last spring, while the state funds have improved. It is a big interest in the local community that this clump, attributable to the neglect of disabled persons, will be corrected by the loss of the funds in the category itself, the operation of other units of the community, and their general operating position. The wealth will provide $1.1 billion. to the countryside through an equation fund to follow the government's successful bill. Section 3 wants to highlight the importance of reevaluating costs to ensure that these do not begin the same sequence as in the case of disabled persons. At the time, when a group of disabled persons were transferred to a rural society, the cost was to be reassessed at regular intervals. However, reevaluation has not been accompanied by insufficient financial support, as we see in a permanent recession when it comes to dealing with disabled people in rural areas. Now Public Security and Justice: The budget is attentioned to the development of a 2% flat stipulation on law enforcement in the country in comparison with a 0.5% Health Care Unit. Here again, there are harmful effects of a flat maintenance requirement without reviewing the context. The vast majority of law enforcement costs are pay expenses, and there is little room for general maintenance without compromising all services and activities. Rather, it would be more reasonable to have the same standard standard of care as in a health - care institution if a flat standard is applied above its head. A majority of the Committee began to correct the seminary of the group with additional financial resources, but in the future it would be best to change the requirement of the case and to accept only the standards and their general means for reimbursement. In cultures, in sports, in youth, and in sports, in today's world, there have been very different ways in which the preventive measures have been taken. The number of Covid speeches expires at the end of the year, and in the context of this, it is noticed that the contribution in culture is decreasing from year to year on the grounds that Covid is running its course, when it is totally obvious that significant antimicrobial measures, were being tightened today or yesterday, severe culturally. From 2020, when added to the fund, the rate is 1 billion. constriction. Between 2021 and 2022, it's 400 million. K. This is in direct opposition to the remains of the cultural sector and will continue to face severe setbacks due to public disease prevention. The majority have agreed to provide $1 billion. to the caterer due to the Covid action, which is understandable and 3rd smaller parts support your brain. In this context, though, it is surprising that no corresponding measures for cultural development are taken but that of cutting down the funds he has taken from year to year. Changes in the production of smaller items are suggested to finance negotiations and support art and culture between years and years. In response to the media: It is possible to mark a recession of the air supply between years in the budget bill at the same time as the budget for the State Radio is increasing by 8% between years. The increase in income collection explains the increase in financial resources to the State Radio, which is understandable. In contrast, it is important to ensure balance in the media market and to realize that the situation of the individual media is not good. It is a democracy to ensure a wide variety of coverage and to protect the diversity of the media. Then hospital service: It is clear from a forward bill that about 2 billion dollars are involved. the next year's hospital service may provide funds. New funding for the Land Hospital are due to the operation of high-supervising and rehabilitation machines on the Landakoti to coordinate the health - care system's resources for the pandemic. This funding has increased, and it is thus not designed to improve the underlying situation of the Land hospital, although it is indeed taking positive steps here to strengthen the health care of the country. It has been reported that the meetings of the legislature committees and the reference work to the financiers, which so far have fallen under the calculated real estate of the Land Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, are now being used to pay for better shift hours' expenses. This arrangement, or project, was under way, a better shift period, to reduce pressures in medical institutions, but it was quite clear that the export would result in an increase in levels and costs. At the same time, the health - care centres have been paid yearly to meet the growing number of service associated with the population's growth and aging, what is thought to be real growth. This year, however, it is becoming a way of making use of funds that would otherwise be provided to cope with the developed physical growth, i.e. increased stress as a result of growth, in order to meet costs for better shifting hours. In other words, resources to reduce the pressures of medical institutions are being paid by means of funding that would be exposed to increased stress as a result of the population's growth and aging. This cannot be considered a reasonable arrangement. It is directly designed to counteract the purpose of better shifting hours. The pressure is simply transferred from place to place. This cost will be accompanied by the management of the Land Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri in the coming year. In aging and growth, it is surprising that there is a targeted objection to measures to reduce stress in these clinics by neglecting their ability to meet the demographics and the burden of service involved. This does not include hospital maintenance requirements of about 0.5 billion dollars. Despite the obvious need for money. Changes in the correction of my items include Based on improvement in physical growth in hospital services, the economy crisis will be dropped to the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital. Notice, it's not more radical than that. These are the budgets of the greater part, that's perfectly clear, and all the smaller part is calling for, combined government opposition, is that there will be a total drop from the total budget for hospitals in the country, taking into account the next year's budget that we will increase and that the average age will increase. Is that asking too much? In that health care outside hospitals: In spite of the government's emphasis on mental health, at least in word, and in particular the importance of increasing the effectiveness of young people and reducing the incidence of disability, the availability of mental - health services and other services in the field of mental health is still high. Implementation of the psychological services law has not been guaranteed, and the legal body of health is in fact not a new budget for years, despite emphasis on a new government contract. 540 million. K. a donation that fell under Mental Health: The health benefits of Covid will fall. There are 100 million on the counter. K. In the category Mental Health Organization, increased service in accordance with plan, and then 400 million. K. In mental health. That's 500 million. K. Enclosed to a temporary level of 540 million. K. the amount that came into play with Covid. In the additional proposals of the EEA's Environment, 2nd. Then 80 million. K. for the sake of a government contract for mental health at school. So Netto is added only 40 million. K. between years of age in spite of obvious lack of money. It is then clear that review is required by the Ministry of Health for the UK that deals with financial deficiency due to increased hospitalisation and treatment planning, including due to opioid addiction. When written by this committee, approximately 600 people after the Vog. A financial committee was meeting with the U.S. The organization makes clear a call for additional funding just to be able to perform the necessary ministry. That's where even the two of them come from. until: ▪ Health authorities employ only 70% of the efficiency of one of the hospitals in Iceland that specializes in the treatment of addictions. Government contributions finance 1,530 induct a year; the other 30% have been forced to finance by self - resources. The effect of relying on self- raise for hospital activities is that the U.S. could provide 455 fewer admissions in 2020, thus hundreds of individuals who were missing out on legal health care rights to which they are entitled. More than a third of the U.S. emergency call is met by a financial committee without further support. This is inconsistencies with the government's emphasis on increasing the effectiveness and production of society in addition to the obvious situation that these human rights are being violated by people in need of needed health care. It's a review of U.S.A. until: ▪ Peers in need of divorce for Vog are young people with young children and should have full activity and participation in society, but instead have social problems. The majority (62%) do not have regular employment, and many do have open paediatric or judiciary issues. In addition to consumer consumption, big users of emergency services are significantly higher in emergency departments than in others. Forbiddening the services of the U.S.A. thus creates costs from other parts of the system that later take on the state funds. Changes suggest a smaller share of aims to increase psychiatric and general health care funding and to add access to financial resources to pre-and-treatment jobs. The nursing and rehabilitation services. Acute necessary changes are made to nursing homes now at 2nd. With an additional amount of 1 billion for the nursing home management base, 1.2 billion are added to their better shift work hours. This should be a celebration, but it is sobering to think that such sums were not found in the original financial bill. Clearly, this donations will not be solved by a nursing home because it is obvious that the quality - of - life presentation of the enterprise that the lack of funds in the past few years has been a significant factor in caring for the hours of life. In contrast, it seems that an emergency has been averted by the budget now 2nd. The disability of disabled people and the affairs of the elderly. On the basis of the bill for budgeting in 2022, the tax of social security will increase by 4.6% for sensibilities and 5.6% for micro-emission donors. This is not consistent with the anticipated average increase in the general labour market next year, which will therefore include continued blundering between pay and pension. It is a political decision to leave behind people who depend on pensions. This is reprehensible in view of the fact that a large percentage of pension workers are dealing with low income problems, poverty. According to the National Institute of Insurance, some 14,000 pensioners have to withdraw their lives at less than 300,000 dollars. a month before taxation. 80% of sufferers find it difficult to make ends meet, according to a recent report published by Guarda, the labour market research agency, working for Iceland's Institute for Scaring Community. In Iceland, unlike neighboring countries such as Norway, Denmark, and Finland, there is an inequities among older citizens. The most intimate way to cope with these low - income problems of older people and disability is to increase the inaccessible biofuels of an insurance agency, but it is also necessary to reduce the decline in the social security system, thereby reducing the indirect peripheral taxes in these groups. As Stefán Ólafsson and Stefán Andri Stefánsson point out in their report, Kjörður biosurgents: Social Security Association and Pension Funds are more and more efficient and are now being introduced into the Icelandic social security system than in other OECD countries. This is thought - provoking, something we need to deal with. Change the proposal for my share of the budget committee aims to stop the shutdown. The added effort to the seminary aims for an increase of 7.5% per year to match biographies at the end of the year. This suggestion, unlike perhaps other factors, involves a lot of politics. It is not merely about fixing, in effect, preventing, damage that the board of directors is suggesting to be won at our common institutions by cuts. It's about that political bitch that pensions are supposed to go along with pay development in the country like he's supposed to do under the Social Security Act, 69. Well, if I remember correctly. So that's politics, which the smaller part is putting forward, of course, but we know that the greater part of the Alliedis represents all other forms of politics. I'm not optimistic about this proposal being approved. However, it is necessary to stop the human erection that has progressed in the past decade as soon as possible. A plan has to be made on how to reduce the amount of waste created between the social security system and the general pay development of the past few years. Otherwise, the hole just grows every year and becomes more and more insurmountable. It is responsible to deal with the way ahead in this regard. That opportunity was not new for another year in the current budget bill. The financier's budget suggests the only change in the social security decline of older people to the twice as many older citizens as 100,000. every month for 200,000 K. per month. A smaller 3rd section considers this a positive step in itself, but it shows that the operation, at a level of 560 billion. K., affects only a fraction of older people. In the treatment of the case within the Committee of the Economic and Business Committee, information on how the improvement in this procedure distributes in income and gender. Although the conclusion was not particularly surprising, it was quite shocking to see it so clearly. It shows that it actually runs right down to the top of the income field and 67% goes to men and 33% goes to women. This, of course, tells us much about the priorities, the political priorities that are to be filled for the next four years with the left movement ▪ green offer in the Ministry of Presidency. As the change takes effect after a year's ride, older people's income will become eight times higher than that of the common income market that takes on pension income. It's going to be only $25,000. per month. A smaller third is the fact that pension income is nothing more than a delay in the income of people who have paid a pension fund. According to the social security journal received by the Economic and Business Committee it is clear that the rise in the common holiday target would be much equal for income and much equal for gender. It would cost a double price of 5 billion which is much more than the increase in the income market costs than all steps taken, every smallest step taken by raising the general pay factor, would be equal for income and sex than that which is more important to the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The Government Treaty states that the issues of microenergy pensioners will be reviewed during the term with the aim of improving the quality of life and the quality of life of those with reduced energy. It's been heard a lot of times before. The covenant says: ▪ Specially, it will be used to improve the quality of life and the ability to work, education and sectoral activities on their own terms, to improve the quality of life and to improve the quality of life. The results of an investigation have now been made by the Corporate Community. There was a very clear response from micro-germs interviewed, micro-energy and rehabilitation-repets interviewed, that one of the main barriers to increased micro-organization activities is the impairment. So, of course, the bill we're dealing with today is expected to remain in the company of micropigs and thus to be high to half the perennial market for older people after a year's conventions. This will, for example, be the case. scarcity in the labour market continues to put up with more than 70% peripheral taxation due to the combined effects of income-related reductions and taxes. In comparison, we have a perimeter tax in this room, the high-payers, which we pay of every additional 46.25%. Since 2009, the commercial market for micropigs has taken place. That would be more than 200,000. per month if the price number had been attached to it. Section 3 considers this course to be an unsurpassed social security policy and encourages the immediate uninvestigation of this policy by large steps. In that case, it is minimally necessary to follow the early income market and increase to 200,000 sums. Right after New Year's Eve. It is unjust to leave this group of underpayers once more in payment of financial and financial agreements, and it is a responsibility to do so. It will be seen in the voter's vote for votes in this way. In general, a social security economy requirement. It is surprising that up to 1 billion may be identified in the media fields of 27, 28 and 30, which are involved in the improvement systems of social security and are to be avoided. There have been insufficient clear answers to my queries on what would explain these economy requirements. Of course, a bit of vague explanation is a lack of time, but under normal circumstances the committee would have had more time to draw further answers from the Ministry. The following information was received from the Ministry of Social Affairs at 1 billion. maintenance: ▪ These proposals regarding measures to improve the quality of the state funds and other changes made in budget 2020 to 2024 and are therefore likely to have been discussed in the government during the summer of 2019. During social services, measures to reduce tax growth occurred. At the Department of Social Affairs, these measures were put on the social security transfer system and in conjunction with rehabilitation and relocation, and promised to reassessment of the budgets of the transfer teams. The budget was distributed in a topic area of 27, 28 and 30. Thus, this reassessment should reflect the results of emphasis on rehabilitation and therefore not include direct surgery. This does not affect the rates and results in any reduction, but should be achieved by reduction in the incidence of disability. The total was 2,000 p.m. initially distributed in the years 2021◯2024, followed by a transfer between causes of burning, the levels changed during the implementation of the programme. These are the information received from the Department of Social Affairs on this. It is a joy to see that disability rates decline. This can be seen in the information provided by an insurance agency. It is noteworthy, though, that greater scope for reducing the incidence of disability does not result in new financial resources, such as in rehabilitation and up - to - date biofuels. Instead, the aim is to reduce the budget that flows to the suit of about 2 billion dollars. Based on the above-mentioned data. In the family: There are no changes to the child-replacement system in the budget except to ensure that the limit of the decline will follow earlier development and the buypower of child reform. There is no injection into the child - repair system, and donations are in place. It is of interest, in the context of a discussion of inflation and pay pressure, that the government does not consider reforming, which ensures relative support for the children, but transfers can greatly reduce pay requirements. Achieving housing: Substitution increases are now responsible for all inflation over the land's inflation goals. These financial increases leak into prices and remuneration requirements. Despite obvious market failures in the apartment market, there are no compensations for the housing market in the budgetary bill. These housing prices are not good for the general public, company and public itself, as there are pay and prices that are attributed to the increase in real estate prices one of the largest balances in the state's budget. More than 13 billion dollars were expected when the last budget was approved. Less than 10 billion bucks. due to higher financial costs due to greater inflation than expected and less than 4 billion dollars. Add to the cost of operating because of the increase in prices to the bill to cover the budget as discussed below. The financial cost of the state's budget was 3.5 billion dollars. a little less last year than if all the interest on loans were to have occurred, because the publication of the Kingdom Fund was better than expectations. But against this, we weigh less than 10 billion bucks. Because of the cost of inflation, economic reversal has been inconsistent with high prices, especially on property limits. It is a stigma that can be attributed to the position of the government at an apartment market. An adjustment proposal suggested by the smaller part means that contributions into the overall housing system will be doubled according to the current contribution. In this way, we can support the increased cost of housing and ensure that the state takes handsomely on the forward side and provides funding for the building of housing. This structure produces an anchor on a market that reduces rent - market pressure and thus prevents rising prices from going up the stairs, also at the market. General reserves and special resources at the Board of Directorates. Changes in the Council of Control are assessed at about 0.5 billion dollars. ... assures that come through 2nd. The budget. Most of it, 450 million. K., will depend on the specific arrangements from where the funding will then be divided into the Ministry. This cost is not unique but an assessment of regular cost for employees, ministers, assistants and projects. Interestingly, this arrangement has not followed a further analysis of the use of this budget and of the third and smaller tasks, as there is no basis for evaluating the nature of these expenditures. In the context of a discussion of priorities in terms of government interest and the high emphasis that the government puts on transparency and maintenance, this is surprising, for a considerable amount of money is involved. In terms of climate change: Changes in the memory of climate - related objects are subject to up - to - date means of budgeting, in which climate issues affect many areas. Half of the budget is funded by a business that puts into place various indiscriminates and funding for science and projects in the pursuit of sustainable development, such as research fund, technological development fund, climate fund, and similar projects. In terms of investment, projects related to energy exchange, electricalisation rejection, fractured farms and municipal wastes are viewed. At the moment, approximately 13 billion will be gone. in climate or less than 0.5% of land production. The long - term schedule of the government, as shown in the financial program, shows a decrease in donations. It is important to submit a credible strategy in the budget which is fully funded and this is far more important than the adjustment of smaller items, but this is still a step in the right direction. Then, to the income side and funding for the changes in smaller parts: Attention is given to the assessment of the share of the overall impact of the modifications through 2nd. According to a financial bill, although the contribution of the State Fund grew by about 10 billion dollars. because of them it would still be within the limits of financial policy presented at the council at the beginning of December. There is still no time for financial policies to be handled by a financial committee. Depending on proposals, more part at 2nd. 5% of national production will be next year. The current financial policy, however, assumes a 5.5% place in the state's budget with an additional range of 1.5% for the public as a whole. The changes in the smaller part may add 0.4% to the angle if not financed and, therefore, being under the scope of the state funds and well under the uncertainty curve. Part of this is a follow-up of the requisition proposals on the income side, which are involved in managing the expenditures that will fall annually due to these changes, which is 10 billion. K. 15 billion dollars. suggestions. 5 billion francs. It is classified as a lucrative investment that strengthens the growth rate of the economy and reduces the cost of government funds over time. It is normal to borrow, either in housing or on the other hand in climate. A report by the 2019 expert team on reimbursement of income taxes and reform systems shows that there is wide failure to detect a high level of remuneration and that a substantial proportion of revenues may be miscalculated as capital gains in Iceland. At present, there is considerable information available to the tax authorities when it comes to determining partners in their own business of normal wages. Section 3 considers the lack of response to these indications, such as the definition of capital pay on the basis of sectoral property and preparing for yield, as is done in many North countries. The Common Union of Iceland, however, points out in a recent report: a more righteous and more efficient tax system, that by measures that limit the potential for earning transport, the income may increase the state budget by 3.6 billion. each year, and that tax burden would only be placed on the highest rate of 10% taxpayers. Finally, fishing costs have been dropped significantly in recent years. The Common Union's economics have appreciated the resource use as a hundred and sixty-70 billion dollars. every year. Actually, it's just a global assessment of the resource. In comparison with this 309:70 billion ft. it is expected that the cost of fishing will be about 6 billion. next year. The change in stock of hunting fees during the last terms was made, increasing the scope for deduction from the hunting tax. You can increase the share of the state and therefore the community at the resource level by reimburseing subsidies and increasing the percentage. That's when my reading on committee level 3 is over. I'm here today as a backup dog. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter, who is under a contagion, could not give this particular opinion herself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u49	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for this meaningful summary that the Senator has given us here. I'd like to ask him a few things because I feel a little old in the financial bill, as it would show to us. I'll give you, for example, 6. The bill focused on the secretary's authority to sell property. There, dolls e.g. There are very many houses in the capital area, toll house is e.g. Still in there, though not hosting the Art University there, a lot of property around Hlemm, at the branch office, where the National Archives is, and so on. I get a little bit of a thought when I see this and realize that the state may be about to take even more steps in order to make personalisation of my own housing, to get contractors to rent on perhaps the 30 to50 years of contracts that are never more favorable than building, and whether we don't lose the ideal opportunity to make organizational policies for the State, so that the public service, such as If you visit this bed of the middle field, you will find it in the middle zone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u50	I'm asking senators to respect their time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u51	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for this fine reflection. I think it's quite clear that as soon as you expect a little conservative policy when it comes to the state's survival and balance between spending and earnings, you're holding very back the interest as the same thing appears on the income side - otherwise it seems to be a big priority to sell property, especially in the financial system, but also when it comes to property. It was naturally endemic, a permanent problem to crash, and we still have to deal with it, the state is renting housing by privates, and a huge cost to the State is lost because of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u52	Madam President. I'd like a later answer just to ask questions about economic motivations in behalf of green turns. It seems sometimes I lack a clearer bridge between the Economic and Business Committees, as a matter of fact. A senator is in, and a legal committee on the bill we are discussing here today because of a proper system, e.g. around carbon costs, it needs to have what is sometimes referred to as the Šbous as malus-element. For example. When it comes to cars, we've got the bouns part just to the top. We're subsidizing and injuring pure energy cars, but they're missing the malus part. This is of vital importance because by building both sides of the system, we guarantee the righteous transformation. [[The president calls.]] Then we can use, for example. In order to support people who otherwise could not afford to participate in the green transition, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u53	A respectable president. I can truly agree with this. One of the things I thought it was a little touchy about this budget bill, and like the financial alliance, is that although the government has updated its goals in climate matters, there is no sign of any of these matters, either on the budget or on the income side, some special change from the financial program of the previous government, which, however, is part of the same categories. There is no significant change or application in these areas. There is no clear vision of the future when these were followed by the green income, green elements, and the pollution - repair rule. Hv. A senator mentioned a carbon bill. In the bandormins it goes up, for example. about 2.5% while inflation 5%. It is also so difficult to appreciate all of this when we do not know the overall policy and the overall context of the objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u54	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for bringing the commission back. paritaprevir Because Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter is approaching him, she is not able to attend. I'd like to say about this opinion of the committee, as I mentioned earlier, that I feel that it's only political and honest, and I thank Kristrún for her cooperation to that point. It's a legal committee. I'd like to answer to some of the facts in my opinion. I feel that the result of the last month's economic regime is that the debt is lower than any planned budget in spring. I think it may reflect that we can think of a better and stronger way of handling the welfare systems, but we may have expected to do so at the time. There are other factors. A senator who would have reason to discuss, such as the house - to - house discussion. A respectable president. I'd like to say that we can't quite break this thing out of context with, for example. I'm not going to hang any community on a finger in that discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Government debt is certainly lower, but it may have seemed that it would be a few months ago, so it is necessary to rejoice. Of course, that also means that we have no excuse for not pressing forward with much more force than is shown in these laws. As only when it comes to public investments, why in the world should we keep ourselves in such a state? Why are the contributions to transport getting together so closely from year to year when these are profitable investments that make many payments? In view of what we do well when it comes to the proportion of federal debt of GDP, there is no reason to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u56	Madam President. I think that's where we've been dragged, you can say, a fundamental difference in political emphasis where we'd rather keep debt down to a minimum than to increase it. I just heard some reason why. Senator. There are other factors in the committee view that would certainly be a reason to discuss such matters as the requirements for living. I'm pretty much at odds with what. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir about how we must approach the requirements and how we are applying it. I think it would be worthy to discuss that at a later time. In terms of cultural matters, I would like to say in answer only that in the manifestation presented in the cultural bill, it is primarily a major task to fail. That's why it comes out. However, with the change of the majority of the legal committee and the implementation at the highest level. A minister of culture may be unable to form the same contractions as might appear. [[The president calls.]] Then there are other factors, such as the financial resources of rural society and the affairs of the disabled. [[The president calls.]] I just want to say, a respectable president, here at last in my second answer: I think it would be worthy of a review of state and community income, precisely from the points presented in the State Review Report on the case of the disabled and their financing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u57	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with us and with a smaller portion of the importance of revising state and rural society and taking better care of the disabled and the areas of affairs that have increased to the level of rural government. As for government debts and such, my conviction is that, in the long run, it takes more to keep a public investment in check. It's just that we don't have a bad time when it comes to terms with the gross domestic product. We stand no worse than the neighboring nations, we stand no worse than the European Union, and in my opinion, we cannot use state property status as a proportion of GDP as an excuse to reduce and retain much of public investment. It will only permanently weaken society's growth capacity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u58	Madam President. Hv. A senator spoke of 69 C.E. Social security and dress-up, especially in sensibilities and micro-piercs. It is so remarkable that the demands that have been made in those groups and that these are actually the sums of what they would be if the law had always been followed, the letter of the law, to increase under pay or inflation, mainly to pay. That is why it is remarkable that this financial bill recognizes the lack of financial development this year and makes up for the next year. I think that's a hell of a step. What does this mean for the past two decades, since this was not being done in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u59	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. I've been paying attention to his writings and meditation here at the Hall on just these criteria that are used in the development of social security benefits. It's interesting, as he says, how it finally seems to be accepted. In the Allorminum, which is used for the treatment of economic and business committees, another in some way comparable to the recognition involved in the real tax crisis, how the tax burden of income-rich groups has gained far beyond the tax burden of earnings because of the reference levels in our tanks -- what. A senator was talking about the social security system, but there it is, the income tax system - has not been followed by pay development and thus will be fixed over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u60	President. Yeah, that's the same problem with both. It is a projection of pay development or inflation for the next year. There's always a lack of food, a systematic underestimate. Then you wonder: " Who decides not to consider history? Why are we not told: We are always underestimated, we will fix it, and we will prophesy a little more next time to be closer to the average of what is going on and what happens because the forecast is always below the average. It makes you feel a little bit like a decision made, a decision not to be overlooked. Is that not really a political decision? Then it's a political decision to let this crap happen because it's not fixed afterwards. But this has now been admitted about the price development, not the pay development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u61	A respectable president. This, of course, brings us to a somewhat complex interaction between the government and the local government. The problem may be to some extent that there is no clear evidence as to how such reference numbers are fixed, and it also creates suspicion in these areas. So I'll take the same example about the bandor, which is specifically changing this definition of personality discounts and stepmarks to the income tax system based on production. It's just that production must be about 1%. We would get a whole different number if we were to aim for a little longer or just a shorter period of time. Of course, there is a moral problem because there is always this requirement for the book of Ballansing. There is a moral problem, perhaps both in politics and in the official system, that is, to bring everything down somehow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u62	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannesson for reading this view, and he also uses this opportunity to thank the author. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter for the Commission opinion and cooperation of a budget board, hoping to see her in the discussion tomorrow. There were some things I wanted to talk about, and really, a lot that could have been discussed, and nothing is surprising in itself, considering the discussion of the committee. But I just wanted to talk about and say thank you for team 9, known as Almanism and Justice, where there's a comment on the commitment of the police. It is 2% and is suggested, or requested to go down to 0.5%, which is comparable to health care because the pay of police officers is 80- espoused as for health care professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u63	A respectable president. I want to thank you. It is good to be able to unite in this regard. When it comes to necessary basic services, such flat standards, such as law enforcement, and much less when they are so high, 2%, they're completely crazy. How much of all law - enforcement expenses are paid is plain to see. Of course, such a requirement means nothing more than the need to cut service, impaired law enforcement. I hope that during the council hearing, this demand will be dropped, or it will at least be screwed down completely. Of course, the same is true, in my opinion and in my opinion, of the third part of the matter, of the permanence requirements in various other litigations. It's a little old-fashioned government political. There must be some reasonable reason for such conformity requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree with him on that. I think this cut-off order of 2% to the police needs to be in line with the health care standard. In fact, there is a bill here that has been corrected and added to the police, so I think the police come out pretty well. But I may be looking for the next budget, that we'll try to agree to fix it for that. I'd also like to be here just at the end, but the time is short, to say the word. A senator on the matters of the disabled. It is an enormous task that is very burdensome to our rural society and will be interesting to see what comes out of this report of Haraldur Líndal, hopefully now in February. I challenge the council to view it very seriously and to look seriously at the difficult situation that has developed in that language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u65	A respectable president. Thanks again. Senator. There are so many other factors involved, I think, in these budgets now in order for them to be acceptable and not include a breakdown of a very important platform service, public service. There is absolutely no need for keen adherence now. There is nothing that justifies it, and this is just to weaken a treasure creation into the future. The same is true of law enforcement and other things. We just see it, so I take an example I've taken before, with services and diagnostics for children with disability and various disorders. There are institutions who perform such analysis of services and may have hundreds of children on a waiting list. In this way donations are drawn together. This and much more need to be done to avoid such restraints.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend a little more part of the legal committee. The committee discussed the bill in a number of meetings, and it was brought to mind the leading sources of information from the Ministry. In addition to accounts of the bill itself, the committee received a request for support, clean financial requests, or additional contributions. The committee followed the procedure by forwarding such requests to the minister of the seminary. This is in accordance with the responsibility of a minister, which is most evident in paragraphs 20 and 21. law on public financial matters, on the topic areas and on the language categories under which he is hearing. At that time, the committee has called for both explanations and rational support for the individual issues presented in the reviews and in the conferences with sources of information. In recent years it has been customary to send written requests and requests for notes and has been used as before. Of course, this time we were in great urgency, so not all inquiries have been answered. Changes are made for fragmentation 1, i.e. The bill's work programme, of more than 3.2 billion for raising income and disintegration 2, which are the legal rights of causes of industry and litigation, of less than 14 billion dollars. to increase the pay. The overall results will be negative about 180 billion next year, and this is likely a careful estimate, but it will remain within the uncertainty gap allowed by financial policy. This will be determined by about 5% of GDP and in the table listed in this article an adjustment to Article 1. the bill in which expenses and income are broken according to an international economy report standard. The bill is presented in accordance with the official financial law stated in Article 16. how the figure of the bill is built up and put forward, and of course it should be in accordance with the objective of the current financial programme that we agreed on here on May 31 and will take into account the year 2022 mouse26. Along with the bill, the financial policy of a new government was put forward as specified in the law, where the estimated collection and debt of state funds under the bill are well within the limits set by policy. The next year, it is estimated that a debt of government funds will become 4.7% of gross domestic product, a maximum of 5.5% of gross domestic product. The restoration of the economy and the postnatal financial situation is the largest project at the beginning of this terms, and the main objective of the State budget was to grow out of the crisis that led to the pandemic crown virus and we are still fighting. Thus, the priorities and priorities of the bill are directly followed by the strategy. The next year, it is expected that the maintenance of the state's budget will be increased and that there will be a reduction in salinisation without blocking the network's resistance, and the guiding principle remains to promote economic stability. It is necessary to restore the financial status of the state's budget and to ensure long-term sustainable financial support. At that time, government policy needs to work with the money policy and contribute to the lowering of inflation and economic stability. There has been strong evidence that the number of measures taken because of the economic impact of the pandemic have yielded good results, such as that the national production is now considered to be greater than the most optimistic stage we had in the last budget. Fortunately, the decline in employment has been rapid, and the result of the Kingdom Fund is expected to improve considerably. Basically, the collection of the bill is in line with the policy of the budget that we agreed on in spring. However, because of a better economic outlook, it is expected to be better than expected in spring because of a better economic situation, although perhaps something worse ahead of us than that of the crown virus, the next year's tail was estimated to be about 6.6% of the gross domestic product. It is now estimated to be about 4.7%, with an estimated 54 billion. The increase in income is becoming clearer, and a new national budget of income has been updated, assuming that there is a more powerful economic growth that has been established in the budget. 66 billion higher incomes are expected, but on the pay side there are also changes related to the national economy, e.g. increases due to higher prices and interest levels, but less unemployment is achieved. In addition, there have been some urgent matters that have now been proposed in the bill. These include additions to the operation of the Hospital as part of a pandemic, such as opening high-supervising and rehabilitation companies, costs to buy vaccines, and it is also assumed that high-school student growth will be expected. In addition, a specific 1% additional improvement was made in the disability and rehabilitation benefits of donors and the increase in the commercially acquired pensioners. In order to keep the additional percentage in the pocket of microenergy donors, the decline rate of primary biofuels and age-related micro-energy supplements is reduced from 25% to 11%, which will destroy what is called falling on the crown. It is, in effect, a counterimprovement that is a permanent solution, especially in the ideologies of a new forwarding system. Together, these increases lead to 12 billion increases are paying more than what was approved in a financial program. For a report on the bill, see a chart on page 18. 108 showing largely variations from the budgets of the current year on both the income and the pay button. Substitution of expenses and language fields is shown in the table on page 5. 126. The stratospheric structure is based on the emphasis on changing from year to year. Overall, the total cost of causing a total of 11.4 billion dollars is increased. Between years and years, of which, more than 37 billion would be paid and paid. As a result, expenses reduce to an absolute value of about 25.8 billion from year to year. Much of this decrease is explained by the temporary arrangements for the pandemic, and many of these measures are ending. The change in individual grammatical areas can be found in the table and, as you can see, it is the two grammatical range that explains the vast majority of the decline to real value, on the one hand 45 billion due to work market and unemployment, where unemployment in the next year will be expected to be much less than a year, as shown in the economic outlook. Then there is a 8.2 billion decline in transport and communications, where a special transport investment process was funded by financial contributions is lost following the completion of this campaign in the current year. At the same time, a special investment campaign is reduced to meet the economic contractions of the pandemic. On the contrary, an increase in a number of grammatical causes. Most of it is 15.2 billion for hospital service, including The increased healthcare facilities for the pandemic are explained. Other significant increases are seen in other health and social sectors. A total of four billion U.S. In terms of money, the largest non-healthcare and sociology elevations are due to interest costs, less than 6 billion, and 4.3 billion for rural society and community. The cost of growth is rising because of the increase in prices paid by government funds, where inflation is now estimated to be higher than in times past. In rural areas, the largest increase in rural Surgeon Fund is due to the change in legal revenues of the fund resulting from an increase in taxes. Between-year changes in other topic areas are relatively variable and are often explained by changes in stock costs, and can be found better and see table on page 20. 4 of the committee's opinion. The economic presidents of the bill are expected to be a major economic improvement next year, but Iceland's HaemoglobinA is predicting 5.3% interest. This is somewhat in line with what other major analysts have been predicting in the year 2022 in recent predictions. Iceland's secret bank produced 5.1% interest, and OECD had 5% interest before 2022. The main driving forces for economic growth next year are increasing the export of goods and services and private consumption. The Habitat estimates that the number of tourists next year will be about 1.4 million. It's pretty much the number of pre - pandemic spiders when the number of tourists reached the highest level of about 2 million. It is estimated that the number will be similar to that of the pre-pandemic population in 20233/42024. The next year, inflation is expected to fall, but the cost of inflation remains high, or about 3.3%. The main causes of inflation have been housing and foreign prices due to raw and pay increases. Then, as previously said, the decline in unemployment is expected to be an average of 6.5% per year, but it is expected to be about 5.3% in the next year. It should be noted that in terms of the budget adopted by spring, there was a 4.8% increase in economic growth rate over the next year and so the economic forecast has increased by half the percentage. Yet, the prospect of inflation has deteriorated since the last economy. Then, in 2022, a 2.4% inflation was calculated, and now, as the above, about 3.3%. This is where I refer to a table on page 5. 5 which shows a comparison of the terms of financial programmes since March of this year and the reasons for the bill we are considering. It can be expected that higher economic forecasts and updated prices forecasts will lead to a higher income of state funds about 50 billion dollars. This results in less unemployment due to unemployment losses because each percentage of unemployment levels costs less than 7 billion dollars. Forecasts, some of them are quite easy to predict. The preferred calculus may be used, e.g. Be government finance, fishing industry for the next year, or in some way investments. It is, however, difficult or almost impossible to support, e.g. Of course, we have seen the impact this will have on the economy. When it was clear that a pandemic of crown virus had a significant impact on the economy, current forecasts changed with subsequent adjustments in economic growth rates. This has led to considerable uncertainty in economic forecasts, especially with respect to the duration of the epidemic and the number of foreign tourists. It should be noted that one of the most important, as well as the most complex, of an economic presentation, is explaining their uncertainty. Hence, we may be standing in front of now when sonar and other years go on, as if no one was tomorrow. The last projector of Iceland's Habitat for a pandemic crown was November 2019. At that time, modest interest rates were expected in 2020/2022, and in our opinion, on page 24. 5, see how the forecast of economic growth has changed, or has been significant, in view of the latest economic forecasts. A respectable president. As we have seen in the conclusion and in the report on the bill, the number of remunerations between years are associated with temporary pandemic measures. The table lists improvements due to a total of 7 billion dollars. In turn, the figure is 65 billion. This is the main explanation for a real - life decline between years and then an investment campaign from 2021/2023, which is the exception of this table. The Commission has helped to clarify the cost development of the state funds and to enforce government policy set up data on the development of sectoral spendings since 2017, and it shows that the real value of the framed spendings of causes of climate change since this year. By means of straddling expenses, the plan is to provide a better picture of the underlying cost development than the total spending. Then pension bonds, interest payments, and contributions for unemployment are excluded. The so - called marketing agencies pay for the State are also left out in the data so that 2017 is as good as the bill we deal with here. Since 2017, framed expenses have increased very much, or less than 213 billion, an increase of 27% to the bill we are considering. The increase varies according to topic fields and is explained by the priorities of the government since 2017. In terms of money, less than 33 billion are represented by the largest rise in hospital affairs, which is best explained by the founding cost of a new hospital but also by a significant increase in the general economy. The next most significant increase in donations due to disability and the language products of disabled persons, or about 21 billion, reflects the emphasis on improving the quality of disability as well as their growth, particularly during the first part of the period. Rather, it has reduced the incidence of disability over the last three years. The family issues and matters of the elderly both increase by over 17 billion in actuality over the period. Under that category, there are cases of pensions that significantly rose in 2017 following a system change. The birth stock and other family support are also rising substantially, and children are growing considerably. The relative increase is much higher in family affairs, which is explained to a large extent by the prolongation of birthworm, and it is a pleasure to say that more babies are being born, and more fathers take maternity. Increasing to the topic range of innovation, research, and knowledge is 15 billion real value, and this is more than doubled in time. This illustrates the importance of the government, which has particularly increased contributions to the field. The contribution of competitive funds has increased, as well as the reimbursement of corporate research and development costs has increased. Transport contributions are increasing by 15 billion, despite a decline in the 2022 bill from the previous year. This shows what the government has done since 2017 in the road system, such as an investment initiative. Medical services outside the hospital are increasing by 13 billion or about 25%. If all of this is explained by the strong supply of health care during the past few years, as well as by the reduction in the payment of those who attend the medical services, we can find a good summary on page 20. 8. The bill has changed the classification of citizens from the past. Various Member States, particularly firms and funds that previously fell under the so-called b- and c-part of the state, are now classified as part of a-part. At the same time, the change in government financial law is expected to match the new category of the bill. The purpose is to comply with Iceland's Habitat on the set of national interest accounts. This includes a-part of all activities and projects funded by taxes, legal services or donations. The remaining b-parts are the members of the non-parties or partnerships in the majority of the state, which work on the market and represent the costs of their activities through products and services to the public and to the companies. Part c includes those who earn their income in the same way as the b-part but are partners in the majority of the state's tenant. In addition, Iceland's Secret Bank refers to the C-part. The bill's report gives a detailed explanation for these changes. A respectable president. The committee has studied the priorities and goals of a project on better hours in shift work and their funding for changes. The key is to take full - time watch jobs from 40 hours to 36 hours, and further shortening is possible for 32 hours. The aim of these changes is to improve the health and security of staff and to improve the quality of their work and personal life. These changes should contribute to greater stability in organisations, reduce the need and motivation for overtime and improve the work environment and the quality of public service. The statue certainly makes a man - made hole that calls for more values if he is serving the same service as he has been. This takes into account the cost paid by cost, and the estimated total cost is more than 5 billion a year. It applies to government employees, mainly health professionals and law enforcement personnel, as well as nurses. It is expected that the budget of the health Ministry, which is present in an existing financial programme at this expense, will be used but the final cost-benefit effect of the project remains unclear and will not be explained until late the next year. As a result, reserves are set up to meet these costs. A financial committee noted that plans for public investment have not gone as fast as expected and that much of investment clearances have been made between years. The transport authorities have various reasons why there is considerable uncertainty about the budget for road and bridge implementation. This is a long priming period with studies, designs, contracts with landowners, diffusion procedures and a system-related licence, environmental impact assessments and implementation permits. At that time, road and bridge projects are significantly dependent on the seasons. It should be noted that the European Commission's work plan has been greatly disturbed by the above factors. The rural Blue Forest Society pointed out that it could not continue with its planning work, since the road had not done environmental assessment because of the Bishop's application by Geysgi and the Koll Road. Because of the nature of transportation, other roads have been rushed to achieve a level of construction in accordance with financial authority. We want to direct it to the road model to consider the necessary preparation of projects, such as environmental assessments, designs, and license groups. The Economic and Economic Ministry is now working on long-term public programmes with the aim of making them more practical and efficient. A greater proportion of the budget feels that such improvements are important in order to make public projects more practical and that plans will last in time. I'd like to step aside to return a little bit. This is a way to which the road was permitted according to temporary regulations in road law, No. 80/2007, negotiating with rural communities, moving from category to rural society by contract. The relevant agreements were originally to go into effect before the end of 2018, but due to lack of contract, the warrant was extended to the end of this year. There are a few things that need to be agreed on, and then we recommend it according to the events, and report that there may be an transfer of funds to your road maintenance to your local community. It was stated that the agreements on the roads are far away, but to ensure that funding is available to get them into an acceptable condition but that the road is unsolved. More than a portion of the budget is directed to the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport to resolve these issues so that roads that meet the requirements for being served from January 1 onward. Public transportation is increasing by 150 million. K. The project is designed to promote public transport environmentally and to change travel practices in order to achieve success in climate. An overview 6 of the Summaries of the budget does not specify support for driving in the capital area in the following years. However, we received answers from the Ministry, which were on the way that support could not end that budget for the seminar, but it would still not have been possible to complete its contract. The greater part encourages the removal of such a contract in accordance with an agreement on September 26, 2019. A respectable president. Increased energy is needed in the Council's work on the progressive reassessment of costs and digital development. Each should contribute to the more efficient use of public funds without affecting the importance of basic services. The majority of them expect to see results from that work right away in financial planning. Following the diagnostic work of the Committee in reviews and answers to the Committee's questions, several changes have been made to the bill, and then a new government has produced a number of suggestions for considering the Committee. Changes in the income side are few but negligible compared to many suggestions on the remuneration side. There are also suggestions for a change in the 5th paragraph. which deals with borrowing, loans, and state responsibilities, and section 6. which deals with the authority of a minister to buy and sell property, property, land, and stock. In the table on page 19. 11 You can see the overall scope of all the changes on the pay side, followed by a brief discussion of the issues and issues that present all the most important changes. All these remuneration forms are also explained at the end of the committee opinion. Just at the end, I'd like to address a few aspects of these adjustments. That's even. New creation, research, and knowledge. That is the largest of 1,259 million roads. K. ... but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are a few less sources, such as to the Neon Center of Speed and to the innovation of disabled persons and so many others. In terms of energy, we feel, at least to someone, the most important adjustment proposal is 247 billion. K. a donation to increase the cost of electrical energy in rural areas because the target is 100% of the equation. The distribution costs of energy, regardless of farm location, are one prerequisite for regional development and comparable housing conditions and employment opportunities. Under the reach of 18, culture, art, sports, and youth, we make numerous adjustments in order to strengthen both individual collections and cultural activities in many countries, as well as to add to the art fund, platforms, and music funds so that the contributions are on the pair of what they were 2020. The majority also stress that it is important that there is room for room within the high school system to meet increasing employment needs and a more varied labour market, which is consistent with the workforce in the Treaty to increase access and diversity of learning as well as to promote national and technical education. I'd like to get into a new arrangement that's up to 23, hospital service. There, 849 million people weigh more weight. K. a contribution to a public hospital service that has decided to increase the number of hospital reports at medical institutions in the Southland and Southnes to reduce the pressure of the Land Hospital. The suggestions also account for about 750 million dollars. increase to the hospital from the bill, and this is mainly due to medical costs. Then the hospital's budget has reached 90 billion and increases by just less than 10 billion, from the budget of 2021 or by 12%. The increase is certainly due to large increases in projects, such as the management of intensive care and rehabilitation of the Landakoti, in accordance with the global health care programme for the pandemic. In addition, the hospital has received a full budget in the bill for financial support at all additional costs for the pandemic. In recent years, the hospital has received special financial provisions that are equal to 1.8% of the annual increase in terms of aging. The actual increase in contributions is now being made at the estimated costs of the improved work hours of shift workers. A respectable president. We've been informed that there is some discrepancies in numbers that we just got here about the state of the health Ministry, so we'll get information about it between discussions. The bill also speaks of and contributes 1,000 million to support the base of nursing homes. This is followed by a report by a staff on the analysis of institutions and has been called to support their annual budget. In addition, expenses for the project on better hours in shift work, 1,200 million taken from reserves for nursing homes are expected. The majority of them would like to direct their attention to the health minister to review the pharmaceutical purchases and to seek advantage, such as the benefits of further planning on the use of concomitantly administered medicinal products. In view of the greater number of budgets last spring, it was suggested that the arrangements of the trade of nursing homes be revised and that the sales of the people of the household agree to a general arrangement of pharmaceuticals. That alone would equal the management of nursing homes and their status. Then, as I mentioned, it's a birthed orlofs fund. It rises by nearly 1.6 billion where, as I did earlier, births have been unusually numerous in the current year and are heading for estimate from 2010, i.e. At 11 years of age, you're going down this year. There is also a large joint of 3.4 billion contributions from recruitment, but the less than 40% of funding is due to a new strategy related to the initiative but 60% is due to standard recruitment practices. Experiencing them, they were tried to be far greater than expected, and an additional source is available for them. A respectable president. The majority suggest that this bill will be agreed with the changes made in committee bodies and special Parliaments and then be passed through 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u67	President. I'd like to ask the chairman of the budget a little bit about the changes made in more things, not the government, but more part, because I'm not very clearly in the committee's opinion the changes proposed to the committee. The list that they list is in my committee opinion, e.g. Like Bjarmahund 7 million, the East American Technologies Museum, 15 million Blackhouse 6 million; abduction of resources from here and there. I'm sure it's a great project, but I'm only thinking about the opinion of the committee and whether the amount of money here is clear, which is where the funds are going. Is that not also an untrusted proposal for a minister when 1, 5, 6 or 10 million are being proposed in individual assignments? Like the tens of billions of ministers even in their language fields, these agreements or ideas cannot be covered. I don't understand this because it's the old arrangement of how we had the law on the law. There is now a law on public financial matters where a minister is permitted to give individual grants, and it depends on a particular match for applications, etc. A report has to be submitted to explain how financial resources are handled. There's nothing like that in a review procedure for the Generals. There is no big button on the meeting's Web site that says: Apply for strength from the Council, which has some transparent form and available. There were people who contacted me when they saw all these extraordinary financial requests and asked: "Wait, I'm sorry, I wasn't told I could apply for strength at the Generals like everyone else who's getting a scholarship here. [[The president calls.]] It's 87.8% distribution rate for the Senate budget. [[The president calls.]] It would be good if it were in other funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'd like to say that this arrangement, to be able to apply directly to the Generals, to take advantage of everyone, that all can send in reviews like we know, and apply for the support of the Generals because, like a boy, There's talk of a senator. The capital is indeed at the General. But I agree with him on the transparency of what a minister is doing, and we've made an effort to ask for information about how many contracts the Ministry of Education and Culture were making and trying to get a hold of this. But we must not forget that what we're here to agree is going through this gringo as well. A senator talks about, i.e. There are types of agreements on these dispositions. Not only do they go to the person but they do that on contracts and follow-up, of course, should be with them as the Ministry does itself. We can discern whether this arrangement should exist in such a way or not. I've said that I find the reason to do this in a way that you can apply directly to the Generals, knowing that it's going in there because I haven't necessarily considered equal power in the process that has been carried out in councils. There is also something that we can try to get out of our power of reason when we call it, for example. by means of information on who is dealing with the agreements and the like, just to try to figure out if this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u69	President. Hv. The chairman of the budget board says that everyone can apply. Now this is the way it is, and it was the last season that when grant requests were received from individual sources, the answer was: consult the scheme. It was referred to the advisers. That is what everyone expected to be around the people, so they would likely apply for their recruitment and receive or not. We don't know. We cannot see it until it is shown in the budget or when we call out specifically for it, which is, as it were, sufficiently unpleasant. I'm here talking about the council's transparency. There's nothing available to go through any Yankee in the Ministry after, after that, because in these adjustments, these are only a few million or not listed. When you read the Committee opinion and actually read the budget, you have no idea that the plan was to put some 3 million here, 3.5 million there, etc. How, then, is the Ministry to know that the funds - where do we get the message that these five million people are supposed to go on this project? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u70	A respectable president. On page 18. 29 In the committee's opinion, these strengthens are shattered, but they are just around the edge of the river. A senator says it's a bit much in the papers. To control this, you just have to read through all the adjustments. I completely agree that we should, and maybe we should just do it next time, have a document that just has a copy at the back where it's shown specifically like we're discussing it when we're going over it to a budget committee. We received answers from a number of counselors, and our response was strengthened because it is right from the senator that what came in to us sent us directly to the Ministry. We had a reaction, not everything, but some, which may have led us to choose a process, and other things, i.e. We took our stand on part based on those answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u71	A respectable president. We here discuss a bill for budgeting and the opinion of more part of the budget board, which teaches many grasses. But there's one thing that breaks my mind, which may be a very good thing, and there are changes in the system in terms of basic pensions, going from 25% to 11% of the distances over there showing black on white no matter how ridiculous the system we've built up has become. It tells us howling the story that now we have to start doing something about it, it doesn't work out. I think it's the best thing to do, but I feel that there's something I need for older people - older people who have built up the country but who humbly insist that instead of getting 10,000 bucks, I don't want the money. an increase of 17,000. increase, increase as a function of pay development. This is not an unfair or aggressive increase. Older citizens have prayed for what has been taken from them in the past few years and decades. I'm asking why. An authority on the committee's view why there is in extreme measure nothing to handle these matters and to assist our older people, who humbly ask for 7,000 k. more than in a month, which is also legal because of your salary development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm going to start by saying with him about this first tiny little step we're taking here, to take the impairment from 25% to 11%, so it really goes into the pockets of the people involved. That's always what we're talking about here about this breakdown in the system. It doesn't matter how much we put in, it doesn't pay much to the people. It is truly a permanent system modification that is relevant in the process, as shown in the conversation between the two. A senator and a chief. Department of Social Affairs and Employment here. We're on the right track. We are taking these steps, and this is, as we have noted, a priority, so hopefully we're not talking about something far into the terms of the season. For older people, it was also shown earlier that older citizens are truly asking for more than expected. There have also been differences, as we know, about the implementation of 69 C.E. With regard to your social security. I may not be the one who determines why there is a difference or why we have not come to the conclusion. This, however, is the result of the financial interpretation of that article. I also review that, fortunately, we were able to make a very good system change for older people in 2017, and we have continued to do so. It is, as we have seen, a group of people who have a painful commitment, and it is very important and long - lived if we can possibly take the money they have and give them special strength. But I continue to say in the context that the money we're putting in this has to pay off, as we see here with the 1 percent and the change, that it will turn up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. Yes, it is. These changes are spoken of for older citizens, that they have returned to them. But we can't be talking about that year after year because it tells itself that although we've made a system change for the elderly, there's such a large group of elderly, far too large, who may be getting some 220,000 bucks. signed. We know 220,000 bucks. there's nothing in the community today, and especially for the older citizens who may be on rent. We cannot always be talking about what has been returned; we also need to make sure that the system changes keep their value and keep changing, but they do not fall back. That's what I'm thinking about and also that - I'm probably doing it in my speech. I hope that there will be somewhere in these changes that will be more rewarding to the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I know we agree. I know we want to do good, and we want to go as best we can. It has been a step -- it was actually a big step taken by 2017, indeed. Since then, it has been a certain step, and as shown here, it was even. approval of additional support for those who have the worst. Of course, our system should offer that people can live a decent life, that's what we all want. All of us want to eliminate poverty. We may need to do our best to do so and thus approach matters in a way that enables us to take positive action. It has made me feel guilty, as has many times been observed here in this council hall. What we're putting on the people is not turning back, and that is true of a lot of people, not just disability. We also need to consider them, as noted by social and employment secretary, who have the lowest salary in the general labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u75	A respectable president. This financial bill contains a budget that has been normally provided for increasing the age of service due to the nation's aging age, demographic changes, etc. She's dropped and just attending expenses for better shift hours. At the same time, hospital stays are placed in place. It looks like 500 million to me. K. I just want to pray. The chairman of the budget board to explain to us right here in this room and to all the people how they basically imagine that the Lands Hospital should be able to bridge this 1,800 million hole next year. Hospital officials say that this will inevitably take away the service provided by the hospital. Does the chairman of a legal committee disagree? Does she have any solution to this for managers? And if not, what service does the chairman of the legal committee consider fit to be restricted? How should the hospital resolve this, and why have not the views presented in the review of the Land Hospital and were well - founded? It would be nice to know the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I said in my speech and would like to recall, in spite of all annual increases, there has been considerable increases in the Hospital, with a real value of some 8.6 billion during the 2017s,2021 season. As a result, the hospital's foundation has grown to 12% higher in real value than in 2017. Hv. A senator may not have noticed it in my speech, but I said that we had been informed that there was a drug available at the Ministry of Health, more than had been thought. We need to check, however, because we had received information that we don't think is the same as we have today, so all I'm going to say to a dog. We are going to consider this matter between discussions. We will consider that and see if it is real money that the Ministry of Health has itself or if we need to find out otherwise on the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u77	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for these answers. It would be good to have her confirmation from her next talk that if this source of information that she referred to and denied is not enough for the calculated realism, they will be added to the exchange of discussions. It would be a good thing for us to have confirmation of it. Of course, it does not seem that effective measures to reduce pressures in medical institutions cannot be financed without allowing only the same people who are to benefit from this arrangement to run faster in order to perform surgery anywhere else. Moving the pressure from one place to the next is not working. We must want to improve the needs of the hospital for the future, and we cannot always have these difficult standards and financial policies. I don't expect the chairman of a legal committee, and we here at the General Assembly to stop the nation's aging or stop the population growing in the country. I don't think we want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u78	A respectable president. Thank you for the senator. I just want to reiterate what I said before, that, of course, we're looking at the spending bed, and we need to go over these numbers again. We're in a hurry. We received information earlier that we think we need to improve. I also want to reiterate that we are truly going to a major and massive operation that is meant to reduce the land hospital, the heavy pressures we have been talking about, both by setting up new space in the South and South American Institutes of Health, and so we are going to make a big difference in the pressures we face in the Land Hospital, and then we are going to go to some other things I listed. But again, I repeat, we are going to consider the difference between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u79	A respectable president. Now it looks like 2nd. Money must be done under the cover of the night. So I would like to consult the president to find out how long the President intends to keep us here to discuss this important matter into the night. I have to tell you the highest decision. The president of Ármannsson, son of Aargian, began the 2nd. The nine o'clock budget in the evening has no precedent for the past year. In fact, I thought that at the highest. former president, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, had a bad temper, but he may have the privilege of never considering starting 2nd. budgets after dinner. This is a gross disrespect for members of the committee's trade. It is a gross disrespect for the role of the General Assembly as a seminar that we speak of the State's budget. About a.m., here late into the night. I ask the President that he will inform us of how long to keep us here into the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u80	A respectable president. I just want to say that there's nothing natural about us starting 2nd. ... witha purse under the cover of the night. Another amazing thing about this discussion is that there is not one minister here. I'm asking, "Where are all the Ministers?" Did they hide? They're not afraid to sit here under 2nd. ... abundant? Besides, not a lot of executives are in here. They're here to watch. So I'm asking, understat. President, first of all, how long are we supposed to stay? Second, if we are to remain here until night, is it really possible that it will be called to ministers to be answered?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u81	Mr. President. I'm about to take my opinion of the committee into the budget debate, and I asked for two Ministers to talk to me about some strange financial and a variety of things. But I'm told that since there's no negotiation, the Ministers won't attend, which I think is really weird because it's just a regular discussion; 30 minutes. history, speeches, etc. There's nothing unusual about us talking about the budget here. But because there's no deal - I don't understand. Can anyone explain to me, proper President, that if it isn't a contract for the end of the discussion, then ministers won't meet? Has this happened before? Is that unusual?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u82	Madam President. I recalled for fun how 2nd impressions were made. When we were in just the same time pressure as we did today, the district was held at a convention of 146, 148, and 148th. In fact, because there had to be an election at an awkward time, not because of the government's independent and conscious decision to create a time pressure, as it is now. You see, there was less time. The discussion took place on December 22, December 22, tomorrow, not today. She started at noon only, starting ten minutes over 12 in 2017, when she needed 20 minutes to one in 2016. This is how we treat democracy with respect, using this seminar not by night, but by day so that all can participate, so that all in the community can observe. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I suggest that this planned program be reviewed and we meet here in the morning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u83	Madam President. We're dealing with budgets, which are the largest Congress case, which is a flagship for every government, and in the same way, there is a limit to the future. I have to say that it is in some ways that the government that has created this era itself is not to show more respect for the subject than the intention of going into Congress to stay until night to take the keynote address on the budget bill. Then, to bite his head off the shame, the officers of this excellent government are not present at this discussion, which is very different. But this is, like, the rest of this great government: it's ours, we can do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u84	A respectable president. Surely you can agree that we are here on one of the biggest issues of the council at a time and that we may be discussing it at an unusual time. Still, there is no need to be surprised at the circumstances in which we are. It's been discussed, and it was known in advance that we would discuss the budget before the budgets because of the circumstances, the way things went down, so it's already happened. The discussion has also been discussed, and the agreement has not been successful, but it has been a positive factor. So there should be no surprise that we have only a short period of time. I believe we have to make good use of the time, and neither does it have to surprise anyone, so that we can settle the matter by tomorrow's Christian hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u85	A respectable president. I notice that for the second time in this budget talk, not one member of the rosary is a member of the board. Perhaps this is because the discussion begins at nine o'clock in the evening when members of the management board show no interest in their own financial resources and do not participate. I don't know what other reason could be involved, since not one member of the board outside of the Committee's commission, which, of course, is forced to come up here like last time, is participating in this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason spoke of this as being all ahead of time. Based on experience over the last ten years, it is not for two to pass. ... money takes place at this late hour. It just hasn't happened in the last ten years. Although we have arrived in the day before the Þorlákur people, we have always had the opportunity to discuss this matter in the morning. So it's not a anticipated, respectable president, and it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u86	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u87	Madam President. You're right. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said that there is no agreement on this discussion. There has been no attempt on the part of the executives today to reach any agreement on this discussion. It seems that governments do not agree with government opposition to this discussion. I don't think they care because they're not here or most of them. It's democracy. Here is this discussion that will take place on this most important issue of government. It's the government, and it's the three government parties responsible for our overcoming this now. They decided to have elections by the end of September. They made the decision not to bring Congress together after an election. They made a decision to drag it together for two months after the election to bring up the council to do the necessary work. They are responsible that we are here to drive into the night, where no minister would think of being in this important discussion. Where are the Ministers? Where are directors to participate in this discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u88	A respectable president. I agree with what's been going on here. This is somewhat similar to what we have seen in front of this council, which is a tremendous lack of respect for the smaller objects. What a disappointment it is for us, new senators, to witness these tactics! It is clear that this discussion, just by nature, and the fact that it occurs on December 21, is the responsibility of the greater part. It's the responsibility of the parties, like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went over here before, that the election was so late. It's their responsibility to meet, and it's their responsibility that we talk about it so late, when it's 9 o'clock in the evening, and we're going to talk about it. I ask that the greater part, the management party, show us the minimum respect in this and other matters. This is not an acceptable practice. This isn't democratic. This is not in the spirit of the democratic tradition we have so far created in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u89	Madam President. As it turns me around, it's a two-way thing. First, it is natural to discuss this important matter at night. We know that more than a thousand people are looking at this channel and are interested in following this discussion because it is the most important law we put in each terms. They matter. This is usually just a matter of respect for the work conditions of individual senators. I'm telling President Mrs President that I'm the sixth on the rosary, which means I'll be speaking here at five o'clock tonight, and then I'm meeting with the General and Education Committee at 8:30 and another foreign meeting at 9:30. I'm not sure that everything will be just as balanced as it would have been. Now that the first president of the council has taken a vacation, I suppose, and I suggest that the president, the one who will be active in the coming days, take up the case and discuss this again, and it must be Mrs. President's own decision to speak to the government issue in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u90	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u91	A respectable president. For me as just a member of the council, the absence of a member of the Parliament is the most strange thing about the operation; they just don't show, and there's no discussion between the government and the government. It's basically just government opposers talking. Second, where are the Ministers? Where's the secretary of finance? We were discussing the funds today, and there was no sign of a financial minister. Now we're going to talk under the evening, the clock is ten minutes to ten, and you can't see the secretary of finance. This is so weird. Something very strange is the hours of work. Shall we go over this, the budget bill, until what time? Five, six tonight? The most important national legislation in Iceland each year, stated in the Constitution. And it can be counted for a long time. I'm going to a meeting with others on the Education Committee, an important meeting, tomorrow morning at 7:30. I went to a meeting at 10:00 this morning and I'm still at it, and it seems that less than half of the council members are attending the Senate Hall to discuss the matter. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There were ministers coming in earlier, voted, and then went home. That's how it goes back and forth. I mean, you could give a lot of the council a vacation. We'd just take care of it right here in the councilroom, the government opposers. It would be the simplest. I'd also like to point out that there's talk of better hours in shift work. That's a hell of a budget, 1.2 billion that go, for example. in the nursing home. You'd think, "What's your hours here? [[The president calls.]] But I'd like that, it would be very informative, at least. There will be a financial minister who will be present for a discussion on the matter of budgeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That'd be an improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u92	Hv. Councilmen are advised to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u93	A respectable president. We'll discuss budgets where big political decisions are being made, including ... acutofftothe foundings that we have together. These are budgets that have been quickly taken care of, worked under a time pressure. We haven't had much to tell. It is of utmost importance that this bill is given a great deal of criticism and political discussion here at the council, and then ministers, of course, need an answer. Questions arise in various fields of subjects, and it is reasonable for ministers to answer our questions. So I suggest, if it's really supposed to be like this, because you have a feeling that some people have somehow given up and gone, they're going to be pretty much approved with the budget so that somehow the institutions can go on now in January and that it's just gonna be taken care of. Money cannot be returned with such speed, and it will just be a significant mistake with this continuing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u94	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u95	Madam President. I would like to agree with the words that have been spoken. Me and the newcomers think it's a big sandbox game going on here. It seems that the government parties just want us to stand out in the Eastfield and talk to the statue, instead of talking to the council, talk to the greater part, talk to the Ministers, and have serious discussions about these laws here. Not just that we are expressing ourselves but that we are being listened, because we may be able to make some good comments. I'd like to challenge members of Congress to have meetings interrupted, met, and negotiate a speech lesson, and finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u96	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u97	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u98	A respectable president. This debate over the budget of the night makes you wonder if it is a prerogative of the government, that they are simply so ashamed of the budget that they just want to discuss it in the night, do it in some night's affairs. I say for myself that it would not surprise me because these laws are based on the old law of change, and I don't think there's anything to be proud of. But they're here saying that because there's no agreement in speaking class, it needs to be this way. I don't see that it has anything to do with getting the discussion bright. It has nothing to do with an agreement or anything but the government's will regarding the timing of this discussion. I suggest we postpone it, and that's why we'll start 10 in the morning. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u99	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u100	A respectable president. How true that is! paritaprevir Just a minute ago, Vilhjálmur's Árnason of the Year is not an agreement for the speech period. It is clear, then, that at first it is not the lesser part that has not wanted to agree. It's the majority of the stuff that hasn't been prepared to talk about it. And it's clear to me that the purpose of keeping us here long after night is not to discuss the budget, but to punish the less part for wanting to discuss this important matter. As noted earlier, in recent years there has been even more time pressure on this matter, but there has been no basis for starting 2nd. After 8:00 in the evening, as happens here tonight. I'm going to let me count and hope that people just didn't quite figure out how unusual this arrangement is and how little justification is for the time pressure we're in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wish that we can have this discussion in a good void, where everyone can participate and do it with respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u101	Madam President. Why are you breaking up all the traditions surrounding the budget by keeping it under cover of night, starting at 2nd? nine o'clock in the evening? Why? And why are the senators - well, not under cover, but in hiding, as they have been since the Senate? For the first time in 19 days, I found it refreshing to see a senator of the left-green steps in a pit to express himself on the matter of government. Nothing has happened since December 2, which was also in financial terms. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is the only senator who has expressed himself materially regarding a single case of government, of course, the terms of a term. [[The president calls.]] This is a tragic development, Madam President, and I hope there will be a recession at a meeting of the fastest so that we can work things properly in the morning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u102	President. It's an hour of story you get that's so classic for 2nd. ... abundant. That's fine, because that's exactly what I have to say. I was worried about that half hour talk. But that's exactly what means that I'm finishing my lead talk over 11. 2. smaller things are also going to have their history and 3 smaller things, and that's coming night, and there's just nothing very fair to begin with that storylines are at night. It's just ridiculous. Perhaps it would escape if this were the only one that was now. But there's definitely a situation difference between me that's giving this talk for a 1st smaller section before midnight and the rest that's moving after midnight. It's just not an option to have it like this. It is not fair that those who are delivering their historic talks here in the government's budget up to 1,000 billion have to do so under cover of night. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u103	A respectable president. I have to say, this discussion surprises me quite a bit. It has been in progress since our meeting for a huge task, bringing together funds, funds, income tapeworms, etc. Actually, it's been going absolutely well. Now that we've just finished the budget in record time, we're standing here on December 21st, and we're in the middle of the job of starting 2nd. and open it, and it was just nine o'clock in the evening, which is now just a very traditional time. I'm accustomed to convergence that these days can be extremely busy before the council. But now it is true that we have very few cases, usually we have dozens, even 100 on the program. But it's too much for the government to be here until tonight, the same government opposition that has spoken of her having just received her Christmas bonus, and then you just have to get home by 9 o'clock. I think they deserve something better. It's amazing to see new senators drop into the council and just give up when the clock is nine in the few scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u104	Madam President. First of all, I don't think it's the highest. To some extent, the secretary of finance is to show this damned arrogance. This is a very important subject, and it is being pointed out that members of the committee are being measured in the middle of the night at the same time when members of the council need to arrive early in the morning. [[It's time...]] I'm gonna go back where I left off earlier. The president of the council is from the end of the year. The first vice president is sick, at least It's a long New Year's Eve, so now it's the one sitting here, Mrs. President, second president, the one who's in charge until the New Year's Eve. Then I must insist that instead of Mrs. President standing here listening to us, she will show at least any small reactions. What is she going to do? She's not gonna do anything? She's just gonna give it up. The minister of finance frightens the life toll from all by his presumptuousness and vices? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u105	V.E.G. President. I just want to come up here to deal with this discussion and that meetings have not been held to try to negotiate the discussion. I myself am the Speaker of the Superintendent, and I have sat down this meeting, including A meeting yesterday and a meeting before noon. We also received a mail yesterday on the suggestion of the discussion, how to behave. Sadly, this did not come into harmony. [[Up front.]] That's right. On the other hand, I think it's very wise, and I suggest that Mrs. President interrupt the meeting afterwards and we sit down and try to make a more reasonable solution in this matter. I think it would be best for everyone to sit down, settle down on how we conduct this discussion, not just by how we can get the best out of the discussion but also in view of the pressures we are facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u106	The president of this meeting and the chairman of a meeting informs us that she is prepared to pause at this meeting if the members of the council wish to assemble for a meeting. However, all I know is that the President is still active in telecommunications, so their government is not in the hands of the president here. But the president will try to test this discussion about the conference board to take a short break, ten minutes or so, and check the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u108	But we still have four members on the conference board. It's next to the highest. Minister of Wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u109	A respectable president. Now, I'm not going to interfere with any group presidents and presidents willing to sit down and try to figure out if it's not wise to continue here. Yes, everyone has known for a very long time that we were in a hurry to finish these matters. Now, I'm not going to sound like an old man who's been sitting here for 100 years but I have to say just as it is that I've heard the voices of the government opposition in one case after another where they're coming up and complaining that there's someone else missing from the board to talk to and even keep a record of who's coming here at the pool and who doesn't even talking about ten o'clock in the night. I have to say exactly as it is at this time of the year, where it's traditional that we're dealing with these big issues, it's ten o'clock, sorry day. Once, the person standing in this chair was sitting between four and six in the morning, conducting a meeting about 2nd. ...and then came to a committee meeting at 15 minutes past eight the next day, which was just not a matter of choice. Moreover, it is not considered an event in 2021 that did not reflect what it was like in the year 2021. [[The president calls.]] So I propose that we continue this discussion, but I don't comment on trying to find some agreement on it, if possible, because time is over and the years are coming and we know we have to finish the budget. [[The president calls.]] We all know that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u110	President. I'm actually gonna be standing up for this entrance. Minister to try to negotiate. They come out like gavas on New Year's Eve with oil buckets to pour on the fire. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is not to be followed, nor is it likely to be effective. Happily, however, the council leaders are going to meet and discuss matters, and these fine gentlemen are not involved. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I hope they leave us alone and we'll find out for ourselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u111	Madam President. I was about to come up here and be out of bed for the sake of the day. Secretary of finance came here for a speech chair. It's just that I haven't heard a statement. I certainly thought that such a practice did not prevail at the high Council. But I have to state that I am really pleased to hear the chairman of the members of the administrations requested a recess and that they are going to have a meeting. It shows maturity, which is the highest. The secretary of finance was not showing. I'll say it to the highest. Secretary of finance: I'm willing to sit here all night and all night. But then he shall also sit here with us, and he shall not sit somewhere else or stay at his house, as he has so far. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u112	A respectable president. I'd like to say, for words of the highest. Secretary of finance, I'm one of those recruits who's supposed to be giving up around 10 o'clock. But I'm not giving up. What's strange is this: Where is the secretary of finance being discussed with the budget and the budget? He hasn't been in a councilroom. It's been the passage since I started here, on November 25, that ministers just can't be seen at the Senate Hall. Yes, Prime Minister here spoke of a synonym of the changed order of the Council's Council, which is very good. But the thing is, I'm on a budget committee, and we've done a very good job there in cooperation, in smaller things, and more. I'm also a member of a General and Education Committee where there's also a lot of work and I'm not afraid of that. I can talk here until 7:30 a.m. and I'll go straight to the Education Committee. There's nothing wrong with that. Surprisingly, the work load is clearly different between the generals and the generals. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Directors cooperate with committees but fail to be seen in the Hall of Congress. And so is the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u113	Madam President, We stand here at the Generalis Hall, this hall, which is this hall, which has a democratic discussion, a political debate, both here and not least for those at home, for the public, but we work for the general public. I'd like to offer the highest. Secretary of finance to lay down the golden cup and descend from the throne where he has placed himself. I wish for the highest. A financial minister's test of respect for the Generals and the Generals. Here's the legislature. This is where the budget is. And what a disgrace it seems to be to him to have incredibly little respect for the work being done here! This performance is completely unacceptable. Named people in what? A legal committee has worked in the dark and wishes to present its focus points to everyone but not in the middle of the night. [[The president calls.]] And these are the highest ones. Ministers who come here beating their breasts for hard work - this is a joke. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They're talking about respect for the public who's even interested in knowing what we're doing here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u114	President. I asked for a financial minister and prime minister to respond to what I have to say here, and I'm going to start with that. You see, there is one thing that we were aware of in our budget work, something you've noticed in the past, but it was somehow clearer now, perhaps because there was a shorter period of work to be done. It is that the Ministry of Economics merely decides what the other agencies can get for financial resources. I wondered if people realize what this means and why it is really serious. We don't have what's called a multi-organized administration, i.e. Not all ministers are responsible for anything but for each minister's responsibility for his business and the work being done in that regard. He is responsible for part of Icelandic law, e.g. is at the highest. Social and employment secretary's responsibility for the social security laws, that they are being adhered to. He offers all kinds of tasks, ideas, and acts on how to live by them. That's what it takes. Ministers of financial rights to meet the rights of the people standing and given there, which the Council agreed to be the rights of the people. It's supposed to be a cabinet minister. That's what he needs. But then it's a little blow that the Secretary of finance, the Ministry of finance, can only dose it, calculate for themselves the amount at which level is most convenient. A social and workforce minister is out of business to be able to live with his own party. That's what's weird about this. That's why I wanted to talk to the highest level. The secretary of finance on this issue is now exorbitant of the financial rights of all halls, and with the prime minister on this multi-organized administration or not a multi-organized government. How is this really working? It cannot be that one of the stewards controls what all the rest of them have to meet in order to carry out the laws they are responsible for. It must be each minister's decision to weigh what is needed to meet the requirements set out in the constitution and by law here at the council. Therefore, the Ministry contributes prime radios that are costly. We assume that this adjustment will make it and the other because we're adding or reducing our services, or making it more efficient or something like it, so that it costs less money, who knows. That's a lot of options. One of the changes in the memory of the part is about, for example, of Psychological Service. It is estimated that it costs 900 million, because even though the Allied agreed to accept this as law - the NAP agreements are so similar - the secretary of finance has not decided to have a legal right to fulfill these laws. There remains only a professional minister who has to meet the requirements and conditions for the rights that people have when they attend the services of a psychologist, that is one of their organs, like heart and other, and they are paid for. But the secretary of finance simply ignores granting financial authority to this group of litigators. We are left to sit and ask: Were we not to accept a law that should be done? Where's the warrant for this? There's nowhere to go. Then the smaller part has to make a change in the motion: I'm sorry, but you forgot. Whoa, whoa, whoa. An election in September is a terrible idea when a New Year's budget is passed. Of course, it does not help when campaigning fails, but that the government of the first term takes two months to add a new government contract and not provide a financial bill ready for elections until the beginning of December is in no way responsible. I'd like to state that the budget was ready for the government before the election. This was very clear this spring when we were talking about budgets in the fall and elections and such. The Ministry told us: A financial bill will be ready for a government to, as soon as the election ends, to put its mark on it. But it doesn't show up until the beginning of December. It's in no way responsible for the government to do this. What is not surprising is that the current government seems completely unconcerned about the role of the council. They only take up the budget, which is the Senate, with an enormously inaccessible, inexpensive financial bill, that dishonors the legislation by giving it little or no time for the various basics involved in financing and other timetables. For the most part, hearing cases is abdicating until the government has patched up everything she forgot to do during the two months she was convening a government contract. And how's the checkpoint handled? Well, it's a lot more complicated. The reason for all of this is simply because the government groups do not seem to know how power works or how power works, how the segregation of the government works. We are here to begin with a Constitutional democracy. That is why we have elections, not Ministers' elections or judicious elections, not as in the United States where the Commission is chosen directly in the election. Because we're converging democracy, that means the Ministers are actually a representative of the Council of the Commission rather than a ruler. Ministers certainly have responsibility, but this does not mean that they have power. The Constitution puts it this way: ▪ Ministers are responsible for the administration of all. A minister's responsibility is determined by the law to show him that he is responsible for it. Here's to say that I'm referring to the way ministers should handle the project, not the way they've been treated, because it's simply wrong in my opinion, not how they have been interpreted in recent years and decades. Simply put, it is not the Minister's intention to implement arbitrarily. What should the arrangement be? If we are made aware that we are a party democracy, this would be the center of political decision-making at the council. That means ministers are only representatives of the Parliament in a professional administration. The minister's authority is to observe that professional management follows the policies set out by the Parliament and that this is done according to the law. Ministers focus on testifying that the administration has followed all the rules set by the Parliament in order to limit the boundaries of the European Commission. You see, the authority can only do what the law says, and it can't be done specifically by law. Therefore, employment should be based on professional and nonpolitical views. Therefore, the national court case, e.g. So serious. If it really was so that the Council would be the center of political decision-making and ministers, the members of the council would be represented in a professional administrative capacity - I would like to name them the senator's spies in a way that would be very different. The Parliament's surveillance is about the Minister's keeping watch and his responsibilities. But a minister's responsibility is very well explained in Article 6. Law on Ministerial Guarantees, No. 4/1963: ▪ Any minister is responsible for the administration of the persons published in his name unless a decision is made by an agent who has the legal authority, or the nature of the case, or an employee has neglected to bring counsel to a minister. However, a minister will also be held accountable for such decisions, if he has been aware of them and has passed them on without taking appropriate measures to prevent them. This does not mean that a minister makes his own decision but that his decision is a professional one. Here, it is proper to distinguish between a political decision and the decision of a minister. If a business case is prepared, there may be more than one possibility to resolve matters. For this reason, there may be simple reasons, since assessment factors are often contradictory. On case resolution e.g. to guard your privacy or your transparency? Ground-based road rather than efficiency? Is environmental considerations more important than energy security or vice versa? A professional government offers a minister to analyze the factors that are relevant at each time. This analysis is not a matter of contrasting viewpoints. Rather, it is the basis for the pros and cons of any view available. When a minister chooses such an option, the political decision is made. It is politics to choose energy security beyond the environmental point, or vice versa, as an example. Such a decision may require that a minister shoulder political responsibility. On the other hand, when a minister violates the alternative to professional analysis, it is a matter of decision. The obvious example of such decisions is the decisions made by former Justice Ministers in the National Court or former marine economist and agricultural ministers in the Samher area. The key point is that if Ministers represent the Parliament in a professional administration, they are actually a member of the council within the Commission. Ministers certainly make political decisions, but they are all based on a more accessible professional diagnosis that the Minister should look forward to reporting from the council, looking forward to coming and explaining the professional options available. Official financial laws focus on this from A to O, on choice analysis, priorities, and transparency, as stated at baseline. It's about cost analysis and profit analysis. It's all about professional work. A minister should look forward much more to coming to the council to report what the government is doing. So instead of trying to avoid the surveillance, a minister would be looking for answers to the council's inspection on the matter, not on political matters, but on whether professional matters were up to them. The minister who uses thoughtfulness, on the other hand, should be very afraid of the council. There is a reason why we have a law on the protection of informers. If a minister violates the professional process, the administration should look forward to announcing this to the council. Thus, a balance is established that the current Ministerial arrangement severely disrupts, for more part of the council will leave all power to its minister and thus protect their interests from all supervision. The present arrangement is a product of many decades of traditional practices. That is an arrangement more suitable than anything else. That gesture has brought us from the way the government should operate, to a ◯handedly controlled structure. Nothing, however, should be convenient for rulers, not anything. Those in authority must always have a lot to do with the use of power, because power is corrupt. Much of the reason why we have had great trouble taking control of the monarchy that wields power in a very practical way is that we know that the damage from such an arrangement is vast. History abounds with such examples. At the same time, history has so many stories about how such abuses came to power. They are there to guard against them, and often there is a lack of interference, a lack of interference, which, in effect, expresses that the once - a - person people can't do this and that criticism is just political order. Thus, the defenses of those who make profit repeatedly are sound. If the critical decision of the minister was only political and not motivated, there is nothing to be afraid of. It is only necessary to resist the confidence of its own supporters and possibly the consequences of a general election. Therefore, it is so convenient to interpret all criticism as political, not grammatically. Thus, those who abuse power escape. It's hard to work professionally. It takes energy and money. It takes time. This is especially difficult in unprecedented situations and with a lot of uncertainty. But this is especially difficult because the simple course is harmful. We know that. It is not easy to provide all the wells before the children fall into them. It is hard to predict a mistake, and accidents can happen. It can happen to everyone that's left the bottom of the city on the south side of the city. On the other hand, those who try to do things well and carefully do not suffer the consequences. This is exactly what I say with all the reference references to public finances that I have discussed repeatedly during the recent term in all too many committee views with no evidence of it. I'd like to call attention to the granting of a budget committee that I believe is a time failure, an enormous amount of time failure. My committee magazine lists projects that more of the budget committee decides to support and work that they decide not to support. A majority of the budget committees offer proposals for support to 43 different parties or projects, and a total financial committee received a 41 applications for sponsorship that I count in my opinion. It is remarkable that there is only more strength that the greater part decides to give. The reason for this is a small failure, such as lack of funding for the NAPA agreements where the government added 220 million instead of 320, as should have been done. The Ministry knew nothing, thought that 220 million were quite enough, but even 100 million more is not enough either. There are also other projects here, such as lifeboats, maintenance, other lifeboats and something like that and a schedule that wasn't specifically applied for me to see and that sort of thing. Forty-two. the law on public finances is about granting grants. It has the authority for a minister to provide the eutrophication and contributions to specific projects of the Governing Body. This points back to my opening statement that a minister is responsible for his legal group and that likely his financial resources, which the Ministry of finance seems to provide him, this is such a allowance: please. You get so much allowance to do everything you're responsible for. We don't care how much it costs, you just get this money, no less. No cost analysis, nothing. According to the warrant at 42nd. to be especially careful with equality, objectiveity, transparency and competition and to account for expenses caused by such support in a follow-up with a bill for financial management. It is defined as making contributions according to these criteria, to be given to an adequate report on the progress of projects and accounting to be made. When it comes to such strength as the greater part of the legal committee, there are no rules or objections to those who receive such support. As it turned out, we answered why. The chairman of the legal committee then goes into the process that the Ministry and Minister handles, but the transparency and equalness of the country's supposed to be nothing. There is no application form or application procedure. There is no big button on the meeting's Web site, which reads: "Preach for strength to a financial committee ◯. No one knows that strength can be applied unless those whom they may be telling them to make a request. During the last term, an effort was made to establish the procedure described in the official financial law that when it comes to a grant request, it was said: "No, a financial committee doesn't accept such a scholarship. " It's a minister who accepts them. Please speak to the minister. The request is directly reassigned to the Ministry. Now, without knowing a king or a priest, it is decided that a financial committee will accept such a request. I was so surprised. But when I think a little bit more about it, I should have guessed ahead of time according to the arrangement of the Committee. In this arrangement, the majority of the budgetary committees are simply expressing confidence in a minister in order to provide the financial resources approved by the council. There's no such thing. That's not objective. There is no transparency, as is clearly seen in the opinion of more parts, where there is an inexplicable explanation of the legal resources involved. That means an unexplained extra legal warrant for the Minister of Legal Affairs. As a result, a minister simply receives additional documents without really knowing what that means. This means that a minister can use them for a job within any legal group as he pleases, but not according to the list that most of the legal committees have shown in a financial committee as to which these documents should go. There is simply nothing available in the Committee's list of pages. Maybe it's so complicated to find, at least I can't find it. I can compare myself to blindness, it may well be that I'm completely blind to this, but it's not available after all. We've experienced that there has been a lack of explanations of the budget approved by the council and a minister did something else with the money. There are precedents. It happened during the last term. If a greater proportion of the legal committee would like to give strength to individual projects throughout the country, as a minister is permitted under official financial legislation, the Committee will have to provide clear guidelines on how to apply and how to account for their use of financial resources. It is clear that the council can provide this kind of strength, as the Senate holds the budget. Let us keep that in mind. It just needs to be done right if it's to be done at all. You see, they do not always have to do what can be done. That's not necessary. This can be directed into the professional process, as the laws on public financial matters apply. I strongly criticize these decisions. No matter how good this project is, it's an unacceptable process. I'd like to briefly mention one of the more than sustained items here for the NPA deal. Conventions on user - controlled personal assistance are given according to laws on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs. In accordance with their preliminary law, the state's budget provides a regional donation on the basis of these contracts, which should be in 2018 up to 80 contracts and then the number goes up to 2022, 172 contracts. The law is very clear on this. It's supposed to be a lot of contracts. But what will happen? The Congress agrees with a budget to finance this number of contracts, or rather, the Ministry says to the council that the number of contracts will be very much at this: please, accept this. In general, we should rely on that calculation unless the experience shows that we should not trust them because there has been a repeated lack of contracts, a number of contracts were repeatedly made by the law to make a contribution. The communities have been extremely clear about this. These contracts are suspended, and their rural communities are ready to finance them, but they do not receive an antiquities from the State and are therefore unable to finance the entire contract. In many other government projects, I mentioned work and a number of matters relating to the medical system, agreeing to the Parliament's budget. Congress agrees, e.g. The financial rights of the Ministry of Health, or the financial department, will, in any case, decide that this will be the legal authority to buy medicine. But there has been repeated lack of appreciation. And what happens? It's not finished buying drugs just in October because the budget is finished, it continues to buy drugs out the year, and then it's a financial bill by the end of the year for the additional amount of medicine paid in October, November, December, or so on. All right. I understand that, of course, the council would agree to something like that, but part of this is to bring this to the council beforehand, that it takes extra money out of the year to buy the drugs. We can tell the difference from the NPA deal. It clearly stipulates 172 agreements. Here you go. Here's the permit to cover them. But when this category has run its course, it's not finished to negotiate that many contracts, 172 contracts, I think there's less than 100 that are expected next year. However, the added agreements that the government should pay are not financed, and it is not due at the end of the year, saying: "Hey, these contracts cost more than we planned. Of course, we financed them because it's in the law, so we need extra resources to do so. This is not done; it is permitted to finance them completely throughout the year. It's really weird. That's what I'm asking myself. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on this point: Who decides whether these projects should continue to be carried out, to buy medication, despite the lack of financial resources? Who decides to stop funding NPA agreements? Who decides whether to do so; who will stop funding them or continue to do so? I can't figure it out. Congress accepted the job as 4.3 billion. There was to be summer work for students and more. Well, that warrant fits pretty much. You calculate 7,000 times 300,000 times, that will last for two, three months depending on the level of the person's unemployment. It'll do for the summer. Great. But then, suddenly, it is decided to continue this assignment without asking the council. It is 6.1 billion more on budgets and 3.4 billion more on budgets for some of the year 2022. Why wasn't it decided to drop it completely, like with the NAPA agreements, when the budget was finished? Who decides? Who controls it? Who's in charge of not funding any more NPA contracts? There must be a minister responsible for that. Is it a political decision based on a professional administrative committee, or is it a well - thought - out decision? I don't see anything in front of me about how to make that decision. It is a requirement in a constitution that nothing should be paid unless there is a means to pay for it in financial or financial matters. Of course, if it is the law that is used as evidence for this, we should not continue paying for the project or pay for more drugs unless it has come to us and say, "We need an extra deposit. " But this is not done - except sometimes. It's really weird. It must be asked who is responsible for this, for those who suffer because of that decision must have legitimate expectations for this service. Who's gonna answer that? Is it a financial minister? Is it the social minister with the NPA contracts? Was it a social minister who decided not to finance more contracts? Apparently not, for he is not allowed to determine the legal rights he receives. It's the Ministry of finance. Is that the board of directors? Is this a professional decision? Is that a reference to the constitution? We're not allowed to pay any more, the Council decided. If that's the case, what about all the other things where it's not done? Who will be responsible for this, and how is this responsibility? Is this political responsibility? Is this a misuse of power? The government's declaration is of interest for many reasons. It increases over 15 billion bucks. We, just over two weeks after the budget is submitted. The height is so reduced to over 13 billion dollars. by means of a reserve reserve, or, as it is said, the modified size of the common reserve - 1.700.0. There is also the transfer from the pay-side to the corral of Kía's 2 billion dollars. Then, in turn, you'll have to make a market sale for the University of Iceland of less than two billion dollars. Very strange everything. Sizes change, which means that there's actually 15 billion more if you just pull this out. The largest cashier there is just about to start a job, a remarkable piece of work, like it was on the budget bill. I've already reviewed that project, but I'm not going to tire people out by going over it again. The second largest number to change the share is 1.9 billion. Iceland University. However, it is money that goes from one pocket to another, where property is being moved into a company that then collects market rents from the University. So they're financial resources to counter that. Very interesting. I fully understand this marketing transfer, that is to know better about the specific maintenance costs and the setting up as the founding interest sheet should be, etc. Then I find it interesting to look in the church, they're still very strange. The answer finally came. There is no commitment to them, which means that we can expect to cancel that contract without returning the Earth, because there is no commitment to them. The deal is just independent. Ranni's updated strategy provides the fourth largest budget in the administration of governments with reimbursement for research and development. This is a factor that the National Review has highlighted that it is dangerous because of the possibility of reimbursement for costs that should not be considered under the conditions of research and development. It's simply a joint, as Government Accounting puts it so indirectly in my interpretation, where there's a very good chance of betraying taxes. Nothing more complicated than that. In a way, I criticized this very point when it was grown here about a year ago, that it was the most important thing to the largest of the companies. 14 of the largest companies who took 90% of the extra money they put in this, something like that, just from memory. It would have been much more beneficial in my opinion to make use of this funding in the grass - based structure, not necessarily for enterprises that have become a factor in their research and development, but for those enterprises which all depend on their research and development and have become a source of intense, exciting future projects. Other interesting suggestions include, for example, that a monthly bill will be set free, which is a prime bill of Pirata, added by the minister to its current legalization during the last term. Interesting is the fact that they forgot about the budget. The cost of change in the Council of Government is half a billion dollars because extra Ministers and Ministry were needed to break the invisible walls of civilization and promote cooperation with them. This is so strange when we have an arrangement in which each minister is responsible for his own legal, legal, and no one else. Does not a minister have full perspective on the issues he is responsible for? True, it has been suggested that some projects include many advisers, but this is sometimes for a very important reason, so that the integration in the project is not within the same hand, e.g. assessment of environmental impacts and implementation. These are two poles who do not have the same goal. If it is a Minister's will that this specific procedure be carried out, then the temptation is not to allow environmental assessment to interfere with it simply too much. I'm not saying that any Minister would fall into that temptation. But there is a possibility that this can happen, and we should try to avoid such circumstances in an effort to maintain an objective attitude. After that, farmers may have to make up for an increase in fertilizer by 700 million. K. That's interesting. The growing relief system is dropping by 400 million. K. in accordance with real-time improvement, which is a clear signal of deforestation of that system without a political decision to do so. Is it a political decision when it is simply decided not to finance it? Isn't the strategy supposed to be here at the council? Then you wonder: " Would putting extra money on this change anything? I don't think so, because it's going to update all criteria, limits, etc. in the law, so it might not be enough. Thus, prices and etc. have not been updated. to expire the system in some way as ◯organ's ass, without making any decision on this matter. That's very spes. The proposals of the greater part clearly show how much release is available on the financial affairs of this government. Large joints are forgotten or ignored, and the lack of transparency for the client is vast. The state of government finance, for Congress and nation, is in worse condition today than it was under law on public financial matters. At that time, individual funds were at least Clear. However, the European Commission is now in charge of the budget, which is due to be at the General Assembly and the administrative sector allows it to happen. It may have noticed the chapters of the committee's opinion, and I'll point them out. It is such a puzzle, there is an indication in the committee's opinion of what this riddle is associated with, so the answer lies somewhere in the text. The following chapter is right: Wrap it around green leaves. The government set up an independent target of 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. That goal seems to have been set without the government's idea of how to achieve it. The aim of a 55% recession was set last year, just for the release of the latest financial programme. To respond to that change, 1 billion were added. in the budgets of the climate classes until the age of ten. A total of 10 billion, one every year, not additional as some seemed to interpret, that it was now 1 and added to others next, making it 2 etc. It's not that progressive. That means the total cost of the party is 13 billion dollars. next year. There must be a question mark on this funding, since Iceland's first objective was a 40% reduction in emissions along with Europe and Norway. Our share in the cooperation was to achieve a 29% decrease in emissions in Iceland. Overall, all countries would reach 40% contractions because some were more successful while others did not have to contribute to this extent. The decision of 55% independent decomposition, by a government contract, regardless of how much we have to work together with Europe, and thus Norway is a significant, ambitious step according to the previous government plans. Especially if they're only to be financed by a billion dollars. In addition, funding for an earlier goal cost about 29% reduction cost 12 billion dollars. next year. This means that either expensive projects were started to reduce emissions or the cost plan is wrong, either too high for previous targets, which do not seem to be the case, or the second cost plan for higher emissions targets is too low. If the cost is wrong, and I guess it's too low, then there's obviously no set goals, and then we have to ask ourselves if we're trying to fool ourselves. If we fail to reach our goal, who should blame us? Commenting on a report by young environmentalists, the United Nations report says:... the funding for climate change needs to be at least 4% of VLF, according to a United Nations report on global warming limits at 1.5 degrees from industrial revolution (U.S.A.). The average is likely for all countries, but maybe we need less. When we set our own goals by 55%, we shouldn't need less, you know. However, it is vital to consider more closely the challenge of climate, both because of the government's own objective and because of the scope of the problem. Yet, there have been some disputes in the community debate over what the problem really is and whether it is usually a problem or not. This is understandable in many respects, since science has not been as accurate as we would even want in such a vast task. It is easy to criticize individual points and analyses for inaccuracies. It is easy to point that the earth once was much warmer and all sorts of facts that appear to be relevant to this discussion. Respect for the doubts, listening to them, and responding in an orderly way are important. However, it is also important to listen to and criticize explanations in a grammatical way. It is often used as an argument in the discussion that the scientific community generally agrees with the evidence that there is an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in recent decades. Of course, because the more part says it is, that's not the way it is. Similarly, it is not true that because some scientists disagree with the UN International Committee on Climates, there is no such thing as global warming. Sometimes it is the few who object to the chaff who are right. We know that, for example. Very good for Piranha. But when you do well, science resists all the major criticisms. No, they're not very accurate. It's an uncertain vector. There are different stage photos, but they all point in the same direction. We've had climate problems in the past with other chemicals. Clair Patterson was the first to point out lead pollution in the air and to prove his point, he went from corner to corner to corner of the world in a collection of data. It was lead in gasoline. His fight was successful. There were other problems with CCC which eliminate the ozone layer. Unfortunately, the person who created both of these problems was the same scientist, Thomas Midgley Jr. It was Clair Patterson's struggle that led to the removal of lead from gasoline, and it led to the Montreal convention to halt the destruction of the ozone layer. At the same time, action against carbon dioxide emissions was tried, which was known to bring about a greenhouse effect, but the oil industry was simply too strong to succeed in the political process. Since then, science has become more accurate and accurate. Perhaps not as accurate and decisive as some would like, and some may be used too strongly to describe the problem, the climate disaster, or something similar. People may feel that more is being declared than they see. The problem may be described as it will be in tens of years or a hundred years. If we were to stop emissions precisely now and reach zero now, we would still be slowly changing for the next 200 to 300 years, e.g. In the sea. It would be to balance the temperature changes already occurring. But science will always be more specific and more decisive over time and will confirm a very bad prospect for the future. This is a problem, for the consequences do not come to our heart today. They work on a little together, over a lifetime. This makes us less aware of the effect of these changes until it is too late. Therefore, it is difficult to see the problem now, so it is difficult to deal with it. Happily, whether there is a problem or not, the solution to the problem is good. You see, that's interesting. The core of the problem is insatisfaction. Fossil fuels are long-term insurmountable energy supply, we need other solutions and the sooner we produce sustainable solutions, the better. The benefits of it, just in financial context, are so much greater than the costs can ever be. The results of not doing anything, however, can become costly for human society, for the effects of already existing things do not fully appear until several hundred years, even at great cost. And as I say, although they weren't great, it's still a good idea to get a community of sustainability. It's simply a good idea, financially speaking; it's a greater gain, more economic interest for those interested in it, a better life for all. It is difficult to deal with a problem that is not burning on us today. We need a place to live, and we have poverty. These are real problems we face today, and we need to solve them now. Everything else we do must cause our present problems to not go away, right? If we do anything other than solve the problems that burn us now, we must be doing less to solve our present problems, we are solving our future problems. No, it's not that simple. We must be able to do more than one thing at a time, and we must keep our minds fixed on the future investment. It is one of our modern projects that always burns upon us, much less the demographic changes we see, the aging of the people, and the like. It's just a few decades that we have to deal with it. Compared with younger ones, older people have an enormous increase. But there is, in effect, a correction on the masses. So far, we've had very few senior citizens compared to younger people, which is an abnormal distribution. It will only produce empires in population growth if we try to maintain such population distribution and it is simply unsuspecting. It means that there will be in the end so many men living on earth that the next man is just at your shoulder, there's no room for more unless we go to the moon and Mars. But we would have the exact same problem again. It means that it'll inevitably get over it, otherwise it's just not room for us. The system must be able to function in such a mass distribution between older and younger people. It is certainly a future project that we need to start solving today, just as it is with the climate crisis. If we don't do that, then the future problem will become a modern head thing that we just have to hit our heads because we didn't do anything about it. We're digging our own hole. So let's not be like Hans, who solved today's problems with yesterday's solutions. Think ahead of time, preventing the problem from becoming a reality. Let's not create any more modern problems. Let us solve all of them by thinking about them for the future. Public financial laws were to be largely updated on how budgets are implemented and approved by the General, and if it were actually under the law, it would be true. But for them to follow the laws and their spirit, rather than merely fulfilling them according to the principles of the law. It is not enough to present financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, financial, and annual reports on long - term prospects. It is not enough to list the baseline financial value. It's not enough just to fill in the fields and view some of the conditions of the law as a choice. Government laws provide government conditions for handling financial matters. Governments should be on guard, careful, sustainable, stable and transparent in their policies. There are very clear reasons why these responsibilities are laid down in law. The government should be able to explain why its policy makes a better community. The questions about government policy need to be answered, the benefits of government policy, other possibilities, and why these are less effective. The reason we need governments to answer these questions is that we want to do better if governments do not measure up to their expectations, make new decisions if the old ones do not work as we expected. You see, it can happen. We'll make a cost plan and a benefit analysis that doesn't go through. It's okay. But then we may know why they did not last, and we may be able to do better next time. Understandably, however, governments desire to make good cost analysis. Not making a benefit analysis. Not making a choice analysis. First, it is time - consuming and not easy. A natural dread of failure is there. Secondly, cost-and-benefit analysis may reveal an adverse political decision, that I feel that political decisions are really very bad. If such an option was an election, will it not be the business of politicians to betray a promise that will result in greater success? Wouldn't that be responsible? We're running a campaign with promises to build more houses by moving them in from China or something, but it just turns out that it's gonna be a lot more expensive than we expected. But we're going to do it because we promised, that's how democracy works. No, it doesn't work that way. So here again and again, it is the obligation of the government to perform cost-benefit analysis, to make options analysis, and to set prioritisous tasks. V.E.G. The prime minister has often said that this is so difficult, that accurate analysis is not possible, and then she will just let them go. Of course, there is always some uncertainty. This is ironic because the very purpose of these analyses is to eliminate uncertainty and create some precision. Right now, we don't have anything. Clearly, it is far more inaccurate to have nothing than something in which there are 100 million or more people. If we don't have any misdemeanors about indefinitely much to or from. As with the starting job thing, 9.5 billion more than expected. It is not requested that cost analysis be precise on a dollar. No one can think of such things, except for those who do not want to perform such an analysis and thus resort to such absurd reasoning as that accurate analysis cannot be made. A ridiculous argument because no one is asking for accurate analysis. For interested people, this is a schoolbook example of a strawhead: Make an opinion for someone else, and then criticize the opinion you have made. The budget bill contains interesting support for various projects. Sometimes it is even explained, the Ministry comes and explains it to us. There are 50 million here that we still don't know what we're going to use, just put it on a series of projects, and later find out what we're going to use on it. It's not working. It doesn't work like that. There may be material reasons why financial resources are not implemented. I'm not going to rule that out. There may have been some choice and cost, but a political decision has not been made to make on an option. However, all the alternative analyses are similar, and then it can be said: These are the options, they all cost about 100 million. As a result, we are going to finance 100 million dollars. Then we choose what is best for us. Then, of course, we'll come and let you know what we're doing and why, of course. However, the Council is not to accept unassigned financial documents that do not involve them. Such legal documents mean that the government can do anything about that budget. Thus, financial laws do not work as the Constitution says, unless legal rights or financial funds are available, no fee can be paid. Obviously, for example, the council does not agree with $11,000 billion. ... tothe Governmenttodo whatever it seems to be. The same is true of $3.9 million. We have a budget here that is broken up for good reason for the financial rights of individual projects. If it was all right just to accept unpublished sources, why don't we agree just 1,000 billion to the government and say, "Please do what you want, do what you want? Of course, we cannot think of it, and we should not think of it for one million. Here is a brief section on questions asked by the Committee - or brief, 19 teams, and an excellent text wall. This is what the committee sent away or so much of what the committee sent forth to consult and ask for answers. There are also links to the answers received. Not all questions were answered that were reprehensible, but they were also due to lack of time, and I can quite understand that. At least it was tried to react to most of the things asked for but in a classic way, i.e. That is the answer, but it is not an attempt to answer the exact question. Technically, this is an answer of about to what was asked, however, just about what is determined to be answered, like when Prime Minister comes in unprepared queries and always answers something other than questions are asked. But that's still a technical answer, and that's about that. on the same subject, but not on the question. That's very common. At the beginning of the talk, I was going to ask, "Do you want the good news or the bad news first? " I was going to do a democratic check here, but there wasn't any of it, and I started with the bad news. But I'm going to end the good news: They lived happily ever after. It's the fairy tale ending. During the brief period that the government gave to the council in order to win the budget, there were a number of large cases that are obviously unsaid by the government. In the memory of the section that arrived at a meeting of the budget committee, we agree to make adjustments in order to correct these defects that should be obvious to all, especially to those who attended a meeting of legal committees and talked to the Ministry. One that came, for example. According to the Ministry of Health, so - called real - life growth was calculated. Simply put, there are demographic changes, older people are increasing, and as a result, there is a greater burden on the health system, this real growth. They need to deal with it in some way through increased design, better equipment, better facilities, etc. This funding team was transferred to a better shifting program, which should provide space and expand services, etc., great. In other words, a better shift program has been funded, but then the physical growth and spills over everything, and this growing economy disappears. So if you are to reach the goals of a better job time, you also need to face the realities of life. The Department of Health said: Yes, we're going to ask the Ministry of finance to add this. But it didn't come. Very spades. So there are faults, and if we were in control, then there would obviously be a different priorities. But in our proposed change, it's a minimum response. This is first of all the correction of older people's jaws and disability due to their biographies. The review of BSRB shows this development very clearly. It is presented as a financial warrant in the 27th and 28th regions of 1.5 billion. in the microbubble field and in the 2.5 billion cc's. in an older citizen's subject to equalize the 1% raise the pension will be paid at a total of 4 billion dollars. to achieve the minimum difference. Then again, two decades of hard work - a larger task - will cover one in a single budget. That indication is directed in a discussion of reorganization of the social security system to be completed next year. However, it is not expected that the government will complete that task, but not all last terms would be sufficient to do so. Yet, they had a hero in the Ministry that was full of children, but nothing for disability or the elderly. Second, as approved by the council during the last term, there is a health problem and the growth of mental health. The changes the smaller part makes are adding a budget for the real growth estimated in the system over the next year and canceling the economic demand for the Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital. Then there is the addition of medical resources to mental - health clinics, premeditated by premeditation and treatment measures, such as the U.S.A., Smokenund, Mrs. Ragnhein, and other similar projects. It also goes up to a problem comparable to that of the National Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, as the National Relations have been discussed. Third, it's the housing problem. The HMS report sets up a scene where congregations could be downloaded from apartments within ten years. This requires an additional 3.5 billion dollars. in founded donations, with emphasis on building an inexpensive rented house, apartments for disableds and students. Fourth, there are special measures for sustainable projects in innovation and climate. It involves investment projects related to energy exchange, electricalisation, fractured settlements, rural wastes. All of these are projects that work towards sustainability and help fight climate change. And then a business, where there are coincidences and funding for science and projects, toward sustainability, such as the Research Fund, Technologies Fund, Climate Fund, and similar projects. Finally, it is cultural. The age has been severely damaged by independent acting artists because of the limitations established by the government. It's because of them things that are bad. The suggestion is simple, considering the same amount in culture and art as it was in 2021, plus pay and prices development. These proposals are intended, not to be an overall view of a better society that these groups have as their objective, but to fix only the obvious defects on the bill. If the problem is to be fair to the poor and older people, keep sea in the health system, solve the housing problem, and if they are really going to grow out of the problem, out of the epidemic, this is the minimum necessary action.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u115	A respectable president. I'd like to give this long talk on the budget bill briefly. Now the 2nd. I have to say, it's quite surprising that there's not a lot of room in the context of things, for example. Consider the contrast between government and government, which has not been established here in its history. Umm... and changes that are about to take place in the square. But the more formalities are spoken of, basically mere formalities. Public financial laws, you'd think they were here on a program or a financial project. Did I get it right that the senator believes we should have this so that the Ministers would self-enact what they would do within the year on the basis of their work? Because there seems to be a lot of comment on how this is set up in the public financial law, which works out that the Ministers send a proposal to the minister of finance and the secretary of finance is responsible for making a proposal to the council, and it is the council that eventually decides legal rights to the legal classes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u116	President. If, in fact, the next year's investment and construction money is handled, the housing and the health - care system is established, I'm not worried about the angle, not at all. We're rich. It's going to get over it, no problem. I really believe the board can screw that up. I believe that, too. But I don't worry too much about the angle, not if we do it right. The vocabulary Minister of Human Resources. No, of course not. But what I was pointing out is that it doesn't seem to work. It does not work as a minister was describing it. So I make comments to the form, to a large extent, because it's not being followed. There is not much, so there is advice from councilors to a financial minister who just directs them to the council. The examples of how the Ministry of Health proposed to the Ministry of Economics show how to compensate for the crisis at the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] But that did not happen. [[The president calls.]] It didn't come from there, from the Ministry of finance to the council, it stopped somewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u117	I'm going to ask senators to watch out for time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u118	A respectable president. It's not right. A senator said that there were no suggestions from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There was no shortage, an enormous number of suggestions, and far beyond what would have been compatible with the financial policy proposed by the government. Of course, we can never have it so that the Ministers are merely feeding themselves with the sources they dream of receiving, and the minister of finance becomes to them. It would be totally contrary to the main purpose of the government law. What we're doing is we're doing frame-making, which gives the professional staff a lot of time to set aside the total amount of money they have for the lawsuits and conform it to their proposals. In addition, it is the Senate's decision on how much we will put behind each subject and subject class. This is the only way to control expenses within the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u119	President. Secretary of the budget is saying it's pretty good, I must say. Is it a minister of finance to set the limits, or is it the Senate? I believe it's the council, so when they come up with ideas from the professionals about the cost of running them systems according to the law we've set, they're going directly to the council, of course. The Ministry of Economics there supports various calculations and contexts and such. It is the council that evaluates whether this is an appropriate account or not. It's not a financial minister to say: No, listen, here in the social security system, the drugs, you don't need 14 billion, you just need 12 because it's better to make it look like that, because we know that the budget is usually made by an underestimated budget when we pull it out, so when it comes to the cash at the end of the year, the income is higher and we can level it, and it always looks like we've been in plus.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u120	Madam President. Thank you. For a very careful review by a senator, it is good to listen to him because he has a lot of experience in the field ministry. It's a legal committee. I'd like to start by asking why. A senator, perhaps on the basis of the highest word. Secretary of finance before, is it a feeling? A senator on his work on the Committee that members of the board take the initiative to change the budget or that it is the staff of the Ministry. Minister will see you in a meeting. Legal committees offering proposals to change the budget bill made up of members of the Committees?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u121	President. It's both. The Ministry offers updates on some calculations, things that have been forgotten, or something like that. Normally, the budget is submitted early in the fall, and there have been changes, new national forecasts, etc., late November, December, when budgeting is due, and natural to update them. But now there was an extremely short period of time, and there are still 15 billion, something like that, which would be added during the two weeks, which is totally ridiculous. There is also more of the budget board, members of the Management Board, who make quite a few changes in budgets that I feel are a little less confident about with the stewards who are supposed to give the legal rights of their litigation. It says: "We don't trust you to finance this project that we care so much about, so we're going to add money and say that you have to finance it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-21-15.u122	Madam President. This is when the General Assembly has the legal authority, and it's Generalis to decide what we're going to set aside for our money and then ministers decide within their authority on where the money is going. Perhaps that is why I would like to know. The senator, who was in charge of our national hospital, whether we are going to continue the underdemnity that has been in the order of our present administrations, and it seems to me to be further on, not only during our last term, but also during the last term. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the health - care network and especially the Land Hospital.
