ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u1	Borist has received a letter from the health minister requesting every appointment to provide written answers to questions from Óli Björn Kárason on deck. 1208, about the new projects of Hospitals; on deck. 1210, about the hospital hospital, on the deck. 1207, over management of Land Hospitals in 2010,2020; and onjaw. 1209, at screening for breast cancer. A letter has also been received from the foreign and development co-worker where request is made to provide written answers to filing questions. 1134, on a customs agreement with the European Union, from Sigurður Páll Jónsson; and on a deck. 9.0 adviser services, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Sveinsson Sjörnson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u2	As an answer, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Foreign and Development at Work, Education and Culture, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u3	President. Tells you the highest. The secretary of finance normal to provide a bill that is designed to increase substantial expenses without any attempt to assess the cost to the future? I'm here to refer to a bill aimed at granting shelter or residence rights to those who are taking refuge, the same service, and a much smaller group, i.e. Cinderelly. Until now, they have enjoyed considerable rights, since the Icelanders prided themselves on receiving the invited ones. Tells you the highest. A minister that such policies will not be effective in increasing the number of applications beyond what would have been otherwise, except for the additional cost of the State's granting a much larger group of the same service? Especially is this an interesting question, I think, to the highest level. A minister in view of the fact that the government is actually going the opposite way with the government in other parts of the North. It should further contribute to the growth here. It's like the highest. Ministers may know that there are nearly six times as many applications for asylum in Iceland as there are in Denmark and Norway. The prime minister of Denmark has said that it is the goal of a new government policy that no one comes to Denmark to apply for asylum. Dan wants to control who is invited to the country, direct people to a secure legal channel, and then welcome people who are in a state of greeting, but the policy is that there is no one to apply for asylum. Tells you the highest. Does not the fact that this will have a significant effect here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u4	A respectable president. I believe there must be one of the major projects involved in reviewing this matter just to evaluate it as a matter of course. A senator here mentioned, I would like to say, impulsed to apply for asylum in one place more than another. I don't know if it's a realistic policy at Dana's and Prime Minister Dana's place to aim for no one to apply. I don't fully understand what is behind it. I thought the nations of the world and here in our part of the world would agree that we wanted to harmonize our rule with what we did most and to be with the humanitarian policy of inviting people into the community that comes from war - torn areas, can't go back, is on the run from some disaster, and reacting. What I think may have failed in our particular case is that we've been living with a very long trial period in way too many people whose human rights are determined. The answer is what people primarily expect and expect. We've had a bit of a failure to introduce here on the land of proceedings and treatment rules that meet the requirements we otherwise make in this system. Of course it can have an effect. It can have a wrong effect on the impulse that I feel is caused by it. There's a senator coming in. And, yes, I agree that we can lose control at expense, and this can reduce our ability to do the media, such as declarations have been made, including welcoming people who are in need and helping them to adjust to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u5	Mr. President. When Prime Minister Danmerk spoke of the policy as being the or goal of being unconcerned, the story came true that it was not certain to succeed. But the purpose is at hand. However, this is the opposite way by creating new incentives for people to take the dangerous course, perhaps even going the bad way. So it must have an impact, as we have seen happening in recent years with this rapid increase here in Iceland in view of the messages sent out by the Icelandic government, as compared with a decrease or a considerable decrease in international growth in other parts of the world due to the information being broadcast by the European government. In fact, Denmark's prime minister spoke of the change in policy as being far more humane than the way the Icelandic government operates because the new course can help those who need their help most. It's not done here. I'm asking the highest. A minister simply: Is he supporting this approach? Does he support that the same service applies regardless of how people come to the land? [[The president calls.]] Is he willing to go in the opposite direction toward those of the Norwegian government, and in fact, his left position, as it appears in this category in the north? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u6	A respectable president. I do not support the changes that lead to our creating here, what should we say, the lowest threshold, the largest gate for the incredible number of people looking for their new home. I am a believer in solutions that are international, taking into account what our fellow nations in these matters have established, the rules they have established, and I think we also have a obligation to learn from experience. I can see that we should do what makes us look good. We have a lot of money to do as a community to help those who have come to the country and have been approved as international refugees or have come here in a fear - inspiring mood; that people can successfully adapt to society. It's where I think we should look. Then we are to ask ourselves questions about the inadequacy period, which has led to many cases that may have been approved, even by civil rights, here at the General Assembly for their delay in court treatment. [[The president calls.]] This isn't working. [[The president calls.]] There are weaknesses in the implementation of these cases in Iceland that we need to respond to.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u7	Mr. President. All of us would like to have a good and exclusive company that pays a good salary and contribute to a healthy labour market, which pays taxes and fees, and their fair share to society. Happily, we have many of these in this country, and among them are construction companies. But there have been debates over the fishing system for a long time and about how the resources of the nation are divided. The resources of the fishing resource have run close to complete in the pockets of counterfeiters and have given them wealth and power. In the last few decades, a large convergence has taken place in the fishing waters. Ten of the largest types are more than half of the quatans and 20 the largest have more than 70% of the quatane. Added to this is the possession of these developers in other projects. One of these enterprises is the United States organization, which has been in the local and international discussions because of suspected tax fraud, money fraud, and payoffs. Eva Joly claims in an interview with a German researcher that it is not a great willingness to investigate the Samherja case in Iceland because of the power that Samherji has. Samherji is powerful in Iceland, and they have powerful friends, and that's what no one wants. I want to pray to the highest. A minister on how to react to these words of Eva Joly, asking if he can agree that as with the situation in this country, few people have authority over the resources and power that could be considered to be too strong a position toward the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u8	A respectable president. It's an old plot and new one. How should we exchange the benefits of a common resource? Hv. A senator refers to compression. How did the teamwork begin? Why was the free service approved? Why did the former chairman of the United States, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, fight for it here in this hall and voted that the deed would be free? Why? It was because of our naval efficiency, our companies could pick up much more than the potential markets could offer. We had to adjust these two things. That is why we achieved exactly what was going to be accomplished by the development of the documents. This was planned with open eyes because it was not working well. The townspeople were doing a lot of bad work. In that sense, I cannot say that increasing the production in this article was a mistake. Some who speak for a higher catch fee say exactly: Let's increase the price of hunting more to get more compression, let's let the least result from the fishing, the least results from the fishing, fall from the train. Let's raise the rate of fishing to make sure that only those who can provide in the most practical way. There's a little contradiction in those who talk against big business being there, and they want to raise the price as much as possible because it's just an efficient big company that can pay a much higher price. Instead, we actually use the average fishing tour as a basis for today's price. I don't think there's any reason why Iceland lacked the will to investigate these matters. I'm calling for proof of that. I refer to the comments of those who use these tests that they are fully involved and that they have received funds to do so. [[The president calls.]] So there's no foothold for it. [[The president calls.]] We can then continue to discuss other matters asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u9	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister did not answer my question about whether he considered the big fishing business to be the big thing, that their authority is too great in the community, and they can determine a bit about how governments take their way to the earth on various matters. But, President, Iceland's reputation and Icelanders were affected by the collapse of the bank. This was also true of the number of Icelanders and including ministers who appeared in the Panama Documents. Tells you the highest. Economic and economic secretary to negative coverage of Samherja communications, including Illegal fraud in the Faeroe Islands, money launderers through banks in Norway, and payoffs in Namibia can damage trust in Icelandic commercial life, that negative discussions about the Samhera business of owners have a reputation hazard, have negative effects that are reaching out to the business of other Icelandic companies and their business contracts? What's the highest. A government to defend Iceland's reputation in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u10	A respectable president. What we do when the charges of law are raised are under investigation. I'm not going to be drawn into a discussion about the alleged offense, any question as to whether an offense was made might possibly damage the reputation of other companies. I don't think so. Well, maybe. A senator saw that this company, which has activity in France, Germany, around the world, is causing German companies in general just to have a reputation problem? I don't think so. It's a German and French company owned by this same company as a whale. A senator puts it on the program, hardly causing a serious reputation risk. I have never received a phone call, a tip, a complaint from any person who claims to me that the charges of crime in this case are causing some serious trouble for Icelandic exports or on the market elsewhere. What we should do is take the indication of these things seriously. We're supposed to examine them and get to the bottom of them. We have an excellent story to say in this matter after the collapse, as a matter of course. A senator is a bit caught up in and mentioned in his speech, with the reports published, by the reviews there, by the studies being conducted, and by the judgments that followed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u11	A respectable president. Earlier this week, however, a barblining in Heather Rivers started and spread at a tremendous speed in a hurry. Thanks to a rapid response, the main operators were able to keep the fire under control, and after many hours of fighting, it was finally turned off. In all, the two - mile [2 km] fire became the prey, and the fire was little bytes in the water canal. The threat of vegetation is increasing and has probably never been greater in this country. Only a few days before the fire at Heather's, fire force had to be called out because of a crippling blow in Mosfellsville and late summer fires were raging in the North Valley. It is essential that governments be in a position to deal with the problem and that reactants have tools and equipment. One response plan has been established on the public defence website. That plan is from 2017 and will specifically deal with the response to the start of vegetation in the Valley of York. Does a minister need a specific response plan for public defences due to fossils in the capital area and a possible national plan to react to plant fires? Will the secretary or chief officials of the public defense and the public defence officials in the security board promote such planning? During the earlier week, the U.S. National Guard helicopter helped fire - fire zones. A fireball was hung on the helicopter, and water was collected from the Haleys' lake and then spread over the fire. Can a minister inform me of how many helicopters the National Guard has and how many helicopters can be used to extinguish the fire at the same time? Are there enough firefish to keep more than one helicopter at a time in such activities? Will a minister make sure that the National Guard has equipment needed to help the fire department do that? In this context, it can be noted that this one fireball failed. I'm asking a minister what would have happened if fires had started in more than one place, and we just had one half-scraped firehouse? Don't you think it's time to deal with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to this disaster, which is one of the many dangers we face in response. I think the Federal Police Department of Public Defense has indeed demonstrated its value in the many challenges she has faced during the past year and a half, since the storms, avalanches, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and pandemics. These 2017 response schedules need to be reviewed and should be re-examined, including those to be considered. ... forthenowthing. I will, of course, be left alone in it. We've always been making new plannings when there's a need for these things, as we saw when we were scared in the Þorbjörn. How good it was that prior to the eruption of the volcanic eruption a brand - new plan had been established! With the helicopter position, she's never been better. There was a new helicopter in the week to the D.A., so we have three fully equipped helicopters there. National Guard is now well equipped to cope with many challenges, such as vegetation, but it needs to be checked to see if some equipment is missing so that all helicopters can handle this disaster during the week when they are faced with it, as they did in the Hall this week.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think the P.R.'s in a rut. In 2019 I spoke to the environmental minister about these matters, 2020 I spoke to the environmental minister about burning chambers and dangers of forest fires, and last year I spoke to her. Then there was a committee of these matters. I ask: Is there no conversation within the government on government protection, on the security of fire chambers, making it possible for fires, forest fires? We're familiar with swamp fires and mossy fires. There's a real danger if fire hit the front of the South Valley in a hoisting northwest direction. I'm just saying, Guð help us. Don't you think it's time to handle these matters and set them right now? It's too late to cover the well when it's all burnt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u14	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator's need for this. We take it seriously. Hv. A senator mentioned the danger of the Surgeon Valley, and there I think we are well prepared for such a response plan. They will always need to see if we can do better and strengthen the public defenses we have been doing. We've promoted the State Marshal's Department, made a new public defence policy, changed the law to the beat of the situation, and made a clear plan on what has to be done thereafter, in a new public defence policy published a few weeks ago, and was recently adopted by the Public Defense and Security Council. The Marshal, in cooperation with the management of cohesion and management centres, in cooperation with all of that, has also published manuals with practices and organizations to activate by natural fires and such dangers within the definitions of storms, pandemics, group accidents, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, fossils, and marine disasters. It speaks of plant fires. It's a sure thing to do. Of course, I will do everything in my power to make sure it's okay. A senator says, there is a danger of this, like the various events we've seen in the past few months. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u15	President. This week, a protestor was convicted in a federal court for a violation of Article 19. Police law. Twenty-niner. is ecstatic and obligatory for the undisputed duty of the citizens to obey the orders of the police. The right to protest is the Constitutionary and an important tool for the citizens intended to put pressure on the government, so we must agree that the right to protect is an active means of protection. True, the right is to set limits, but this need to be done with extra care. Twenty-niner. A law of police is a highly estimating legal authority that can be used by the authorities to stop protests, and by the average rule, it is always necessary to try the mildest strategies to reach the desired goal. Clearly, in recent years the police have felt it necessary to take firm action against Protestants when protests have been made in support of refugees rather than at other protests. In addition, police responses to protests to refugees have been far more appropriate, even though there have been a relatively small number of protests. When making informed decisions, it is important to be balanced and to make sure that the same criteria are applied no matter what. Tells you the highest. Minister of Justice to justify the application of one economist order to level 19. A police law is used to dissolve protests? What is the education for policemen about the use of the Order? How does surveillance and review of the application of the rule take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u16	A respectable president. Of course, I agree with what. A senator, the right to protest is clear and is the loyal citizens of this community. Of course, the police are required to use the same standards, no matter what their jobs do. At the same time, Protestants must follow police instructions. It is then a court of justice that finds a definite conclusion, as a matter of course. A senator refers to, and this is how our system is built. Courts decide if police work too hard. We are also supporting a patrol of police activities in a case here on the final meters of the council. Of course, I'm in no position to reevaluate a court of law. The right to use their freedom of expression is clear, and they have the right to protest and, at the same time, the police must maintain equal sovereignty and use the same guidelines against all citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u17	President. It's obvious that me and the highest. The Minister of Justice agrees on the importance of the court to protest. But I wasn't asking what the top. Minister of Justice would like to contribute to the decision of the district or ask for an evaluation. I was asking if it would be justifiable to have one ecstatic rule of 19. Police law is used to dissolve protests. Twenty-niner. The commitment of citizens to obey the police is a rather open law. A bill to the police law says that it is being brought into the law of citizens to obey the orders of the police. The report does not show how police assessment of the procedure of the arrangement should be carried out. And since this law has been used to dissolve objections, I reiterate my question to the question, Is it justified to have one assessment order as much as a 19th paragraph? is used to dissolve protests. That is why I also asked about the use of the rule of police officers. Is this just a personal assessment of the police every time, how to apply it, or are there any general messages that go to the police about how to ensure that this rule is applied legitimately? At the latest: Is there any surveillance on how this highly evaluable order is used when rights are being restricted? Is there any reexaminations that can be revised or instructed police officers on how this assessment should be conducted? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u18	A respectable president. Is it justified to use this law to dissolve protests? Of course, it is the police who must evaluate the circumstances of each individual who may differ, what are the dangers, and how may they be affected. It's the police always to be moderate. There is also a question of instruction, and the training of policemen and the educational work in different areas of society is constantly being reassigned. I may not know about this particular point, but it has been a great deal of effort to be careful to re-educe the police and education in different fields, such as population and so forth. Courts then review these police decisions, and, of course, they are shaped in their actions by court decisions in times of trial. Of course, it is very important that equality be kept in check, and of course police officers are being instructed about their work in times of trial. I think the police have done a lot of good, but, of course, they always have to be equal and moderate in these matters as well as others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u19	A respectable president. The importance of the media for society is quite clear to all of us, but their situation today is also. As a result of the difficult situation of the individual media, it is very serious. The problem isn't new and it's progressive. Why am I referring to this now when we are in the final meters doing a case that is about supporting the individual media? I do this because it's being put on a very small patch on a large bleeding wound. Of course, it is only natural that personal media can be supported in the current situation. The society needs the quality and variety of media, and I'd like to say that the situation in the media is a measure of democracy. The environment of environmental media has changed a lot over the past few years. Advertising markets and international giant status on the Internet play a key role there. Of course, RUSB is in a position of authority, a source of both money and heavy income from a commercial market. It is not a question to me, but the rules of the game cannot be that private media are automatically difficult for us because of the state of the media. The prime minister's bill is now not taking any part in this situation. The unfair, competitive environment will remain. There will be no decline in advertising markets, nor will there be any action. Rather, it will be to face the situation caused by the international giants who take a lot of action without paying the same fees as the tax and domestic parties. Now in February, a special committee was formed for three members of the Parliament to discuss two matters; the state of the RUS and the international sectors. The objective there must have been more than coffeeing and talking about reconciliation in the government, and I ask: Education Ministers provide some future solutions for the long - term media status, anything more than this strength now, any suggestions that make this business normal and healthy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u20	A respectable president. First, I'd like to welcome the support of the bill that has been drawn to support the private media. The first time such a bill is presented, of course, evidence that the media is being handled here. I agree with what. A senator that it is vital that the environment around the media is solid and that we support them as we do about RUS and now with this bill. Similarly, I have said that it is very important to settle the game, i.e. we consider taxation in the foreign companies and consider options comparable to what has been done in Australia. I'm very supportive. What has happened is that the media have changed a lot. The bill is part of supporting the private media, and it is, of course, happy to find wide support here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u21	A respectable president. There's very little support in that kind of talk. A minister of education, that she wants to see something, that she supports something, and that she has some opinions when she has not provided any such changes for her entire Ministry lesson, and is now confirming that none of these seem to be in the books either. Yes, that is normal, and, yes, the media need to be supported in the light of their basic role now, and they need to look for real help and for the services that need it, not only go to the most, or to the greatest extent, of it. It's also not been here, like the highest. Ministers confirmed, dealing with the spilling of money. Yes, the United States media will receive this strength that the minister is promising here, and the council will no doubt support all. But this is a bandage on a wound, and the bleeding is not stopped. The market rules will still be unfair, and the very support for the media is to some extent also. Perhaps that was the point after all?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u22	A respectable president. This bill is now being taken care of, and it has taken time, but it is the first time that it is being supported by private media, for the first time. I think that's pretty good results. I'd also like to mention that it was established on my watch for a company of competitive competition, which had not been done since 2013, just to make the rules of the game clearer. So I'm really happy and happy with the way we've been doing these projects and again that this is the first time that's being completed a bill to support the private media. I thank you for the support I had. A senator shows here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u23	V.E.G. President. I come up here to celebrate the return of this matter. a reminder of a request that will be considered on the uncertainty factors involved in the bill and particularly on the costs of the bill and the secondary costs. The Party of the Central Party will not be able to support the case as it is and will take sides after further discussion by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u24	President. This case has been called back to the committee. As an executive, I agree with it, and we take it to heart and discuss it further and know if we can provide better information, which seems to be missing in any way. We take it to heart, and we will consider it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u25	Mr. President. Yes, calling the matter into a committee in itself is all right. Nevertheless, there is a cost assessment in the bill, and we received information on what this cost is, what the money would be talking about that would have to be made to make a multicultural residence on account of this matter. Just so they're being held back. The welfare committee received this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u26	A respectable president. I'm on this one. This is the best part. It's about a multicultural facility. This has nothing to do with the trustees but to take good care of the refugees who are in the country. I signed the committee, and I'm on it. The cost plan was set in motion. It's not a big deal, but it's a very good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u27	A respectable president. It is impossible to pass before it is decided and sent back to the committee, to mention it more clearly. There's no disagreement about what the additional cost of a multicultural community is from this case, and then I'll refer to it again. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, just now. The difference lies in each of the secondary costs. It is obvious that the overall cost of the secondary effects of the bill is 22.7 million. Why didn't people simply count themselves into dollars and pennies? Now I make it clear that people are trying to look into the laws on public financial matters when the cost of the bill is presented, and this particular cost of living does not measure up to any rational opinion. Therefore, in the middle of the group, we are asking for the matter to go to a committee to try to make some cognitive assessment of the secondary effects of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u28	A respectable president. I have come here to the General's symposium to state support for this matter. The time has long come for us to welcome refugees and the role of a multicultural facility is important so that the rural communities throughout the country who have declared themselves ready to receive refugees receive uniform counsel and can work together. This is a good thing. Sadly, the members of the Central Party have stepped up here in the symposium after one another with a reversal of anything other than what this issue is all about. The matter is about better service to people who come to us for the protection and assistance they deserve, and this is the first step of many essentials in creating a consistent direction in the affairs of immigrants and refugees. I want to thank you for this, and I hope we can all support that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u29	Mr. President. It's right to correct a little misunderstanding. This is not a secondary cost of mass civilization taking on additional projects. This is the cost expected to fall to the Multicultural site of creating this uniform way for both the host and the people looking for international protection, i.e. In services of rural society, this is the cost of it. There seems to be some misunderstanding about the bill being about something completely different. I just wanted to correct a problem. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, who does not sit on a welfare committee and therefore has not observed the work being done there, it is all about the services of this organisation in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u30	President. The cost is one factor and the lack of a budget for each cost increase is due to the proposed change in policy. It is changing policy, and it will have an effect, particularly in view of the fact that the Icelandic government is going in the opposite direction with the government in other parts of the North. In fact, it's a kind of perimeter in norse politics now. It is most likely on the outside of northern politics. In Denmark, there is a right - to - left agreement, passed by the socipital Ecots, to go the other way, and contribute to the safe, legal way for people to go, and Danir can decide for themselves who is invited to the country. This is to contribute to the contrary, that they themselves may come to the land to seek refuge.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u31	President. I just wanted to make it clear that I'm going to sit by on this matter. I realize that this needs to be introduced because we're committed to it. I'm not against the Schengen system or the area, but I just feel like I'm giving you permission to collect rather a lot of sensitive personal information without the need to explain it accurately.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u32	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to see that this matter is running out. It's been a very long birth, and at that time, a lawsuit with industrial policy in Iceland began around 1978 with a proposal of a fine candidate. It's not quite over yet. They really need to be on their own, but I am very grateful that this case is now going on one more step. I thank you for the pro board for her work on the case, and I hope this is over. All decent countries are supposed to have some sort of integrated industrial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u33	A respectable president. The report I have given to the General Assembly on Foreign and International Affairs is the last of the material in the current terms of terms. This period of time has been marked by abduction in both Icelandic and international society, especially during recent years of unprecedented pandemic. Foreign service has adapted well to these changed times, both for special issues but also for business and organization. I am proud of the success we have achieved in supporting Icelandic employment and in caring for the interests of our citizens. In the pandemic, we have endeavored to adapt our activities to the changing circumstances and to meet the needs of Icelandic companies and citizens. The light in these matters, as in all the streets since the establishment of foreign service in April 1940, has been protecting the interests of the country and the nation in a foreign field. Change of priorities and change made at the beginning of the season have made a big difference in how successful it has been in the trials that hopefully are soon to come. Iceland's Foreign Service has served and will continue to play an important role in helping the nation. We're our own luck makers. If we do not do so ourselves, none of us will care for our interests. A respectable president. Increased emphasis on northern issues has been a red thread in Icelandic foreign policy during the last eight years. First of all, Iceland has been leading the Arctic Council for the past two years. A circuit meeting that will be held in Reykjavík later in the month marks its end, but it is also held up during the 25th anniversary of the Arctic Council. According to Iceland's lead plan, emphasis has been placed on three main areas; the oceans, climate, and renewable energy; and people and communities in the north, as well as on strengthening the council. Although the epidemic has taken a stand, Iceland's executive plan has been very successful. It is hoped that at the Ministerial Conference, the Minister of the Member States will agree to the results of projects carried out in Iceland's prehuman existence and the Council's work programme for the future presidentship of Russia. According to the Government Treaty, the business of the north is in the top priority of Icelandic foreign policy. It has to do with Iceland's interests in many ways. An ennobling north-land policy is based on Congress resolution from 2011. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u34	President wants to ask the highest. Minister if we are not on the same page regarding the intervention of the 8th session, implementation of the EEA Convention, the report that I know best, the desire of a minister, ahead of the other. Maybe it's at the top. Minister's been on the 9th thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u35	A respectable president. If it's been the desire of the Minister, he's only going his way, but I thought I was completely different. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u36	We'll work it out. For example, a minister leaves the symposium and brings back an enforcing talk before the 8th session.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u37	A respectable president. Then I have my case and will discuss a report on the implementation of the EEA contract, which I understand I specifically requested to be taken first of the other cases. I recommend here for a report on the implementation of the EEA Convention presented in accordance with Council Regulation on the Constitutional Treatment of the EEA, but as per. Count 9. Each year, the Minister of Foreign Affairs shall submit such a report to the Council. The review of EEA cooperation with the General report is closely consistent with the emphasis on the implementation of the contract in the terms of the term. The report continues with the review of the report I submitted for the EEA contract at the last legislation Parliament and for the implementation of the contract in the latter part of 2019 and in 2020. As the year 2021 has passed, developments that took place in the first few months of the year need also take place. Inevitably, the disorder that the Covid-19 pandemic has brought upon the European Union activities and management of the EEA Convention, as well as the measures taken at the EEA scene, are addressed. That's what it's like. Discussing the problems between the EFTA countries and the EU due to the regulations set in place by the EU last year on the provision of the export card due to the export of protective equipment and recently due to vaccine export. While cooperation with the EU has generally been very successful in dealing with the pandemic, it has also been considered on the basis of Community decision to extend its export policies to the EFTA countries in the EEA due to the export of protective equipment over the past year, and recently due to the export of vaccines. The Icelandic government has strongly objected to these decisions, pointing out the requirement for discharge of violations against Article 12. The EEA Convention. It has also been suggested that Iceland is fully involved in EU shopping and distribution of vaccines. The provision of protective equipment has been modified following a protest from the EEA EFTA countries. During this year's unscrupulous campaign by the Icelandic government protests on the provision of vaccine exports have been presented directly to the EU Commission as well as to the individual Member States. I myself have made clear the protests of the Icelandic government with my colleagues in the North and the Baltic States. The Prime Ministers of the EEA EFTA also wrote a letter to the European Commission President on the matter. At that time, the Ministry of State called the ambassador of the EU Member States to meet with someone who has already heard about the case and has followed up with high-ranking members of the EU and its Member States on the matter. The mission in Brussels also presented protests to the EU foreign services and to the Commission, and the matter was adopted at a specific additional meeting for the joint EEA committee. The embassies of Iceland in the EU protested to the government of the Member States. On April 30th. I had a telethon with Valdis Dombrovskis, the European customer of the Union, where I repeated our demand. We had a clean communication that ended by saying that he accepted the position of the Icelandic government and that he would make Ursulu Ursula der Leyen, the president of the Commission, explain that position. Then, on May 1, the prime minister had a telephone meeting with Ursulu Ursula der Leyen. At that meeting Ursula von der Leyen decided that upon a review of the rules of Iceland, Iceland would clearly be excluded from the request for a export license. The result of this great campaign in favour of Icelandic interests is that last night the European Commission puts the Commission Regulation which puts the EFTA back on the list of states that are the exception of the export control systems for vaccines. In addition, the EEA EFTA status is clearly referred to as participants in the internal market. A good example of the importance of continuing to protect Iceland's interest in the management of the EEA agreement is the EU export policy. The report also provides a comprehensive overview of the implementation of the contract during the period covered by the report, including the implementation of EU types into the contract and its implementation in the country. The results of reducing the so - called recording halls and Iceland production ratio remain much better than most of the EU Convention's duration, although this is not as good as between 2018 and 2018, including due to Covid19 disorders. This report will provide a detailed explanation for Iceland's interest management in the EEA work, which is largely on the Brussels embassy. During the past few years, it will be discussed with progressive reforms aimed at promoting the interest guard and improving the information being provided. In this way, the EEA database makes it easier for experts to monitor the situation at the preparatory level in the EU. It has been made public as part of increasing information to the Generals, stakeholders and the public. There have also been specific information collection of key information on the implementation of the contract and on the top of each cycle. In that case, there has been an increase in the work of the embassy in Brussels, all of which are expected to be represented in Brussels by the end of this year. A specific list of priorities in the EEA lays the foundation for the interest guard. The list of priorities is regularly updated and is 22 cases in a new list adopted last autumn. One of the most important issues for the integrated transport measures due to Covid-19 is: the EU's green treaty, the digital staff of the Union's energy and climate policy to 2030 and the Community Directive on the activities of the DGS III. The report on each of these issues will give a special consideration. The report also discusses a number of issues that have been high in connection with Iceland's membership to the EEA Convention. In this regard, the EFTA Commission's opinion of the introduction of the 35 books with regard to the national contract is followed by a change in judgment. There is also a report on the possible review of the agricultural trade agreements and on improved markets for marine products. I have stressed that there is a significant imbalance in our agreement with the EU on agricultural trade and that the European Commission has the full obligation to import to the EU. I've stressed that this will be improved. The report explains how the building fund of the EEA works. The Icelandic government has given special attention to research projects, innovation, education and culture, energy and environment, social improvements and equality. Increased emphasis is now being placed on two-sided projects with each of the Member States, which provide opportunities to promote communication between Iceland and the Member States. Finally, the report explains the role of Iceland in EU co-operation programmes. Our participation in cooperation programmes has created the basis for the wide cooperation of Icelandic institutions, enterprises and individuals with foreign organisations, and the report explains their participation and preparation for continued participation in the period 2021◯2027. A respectable president. The benefits of being a member of the European Economic Area include: in almost unfounded access to the internal market of the EEA, the fact that Icelandic companies can compete in equality with European enterprises, in the depletion of customs and the deduction of technical barriers, the potential for Iceland to live and work anywhere in the EEA and in broad cooperation in the fields of science, education and culture, as part of the EU co-operation programmes. It is often claimed that the price for that benefit is not justified by the large implementation of EU legislation within the contract. However, in this context, the role of the EU contract must not be directly related to the EU. A report by the Ministry of State, conducted for the better implementation of the EEA Convention, 2018 showed that only 13.4% of the types adopted by the EU during the same period was adopted by Iceland by the U.S.A. A report by the 2019 EEA Work Group also showed that only 16% of the songs adopted by the General of the Council were directly descended from the EEA. While Iceland is experiencing significant benefits from its involvement in the EEA Treaty, we are standing outside the European Community, where it suits our interests, e.g. in the fields of fishing, agriculture, tax and regional policy. At the same time, we're outside the Community Protocol and we can make free trade agreements with a third state on our own terms. Only 10 of the 34 sections of the EU legislation are fully part of the EEA Convention and 13 chapters are standing entirely apart. So we are only members of the European community to the extent that is compatible with our interests. A respectable president. The Treaty of the Government confirms that one of the most important interests in Iceland is to carry out the EEA Convention carefully. In addition, Iceland's interests are being declared to be the best city outside the EU. On this basis, several improvements in the implementation of the contract have been implemented during the terms of the election. A targeted strategy has been developed which includes: The proposal for the implementation of the EEA Convention from 2015, as well as the above report of the European Commission's work group for the future foreign service since 2017, as well as for the benefit of the report of the EEA's workgroup. In recent years, a number of initiatives have been undertaken to improve the implementation of the EEA contract and to further emphasis on active interest protection in the early EU legislation levels, including by strengthening the development of professional applications and setting out what cases would protect Icelandic interests in particular. The EEA is stable and the benefits of Iceland's involvement are high and unambiguous. On the other hand, the government will continue to work on a course that has been targeted to improve the implementation of the contract as much as possible and to ensure the best cooperation interest in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his report and history here. I'd like to step in to the book 35, which is about correctly implementing legislation, European rules, above Icelandic law, if there is a conflict. It is attributed to the European Commission for the review of the past few years. It is suggested that a formal violation of treaties began with a formal reminder letter dated December 13, 2017. Then, on September 30, 2020, the Agency published a logical opinion on the subject. This is all traced to the secretary's report. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: It seems to me that the Agency is very eager to handle this matter despite the answers and comments made by the Icelandic government, but what equipment has been prepared on the part of the Ministry in the event that we succumb to such claims?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The report gives a detailed report on the subject. That's where even the two of them come from. Until, according to the Protocol, the EFTA countries must ensure the priorities of EU rules taken nationally against other national regulations. In this country, this commitment was made into Article 3. track No. 2/1993, on the European Economic Area, but according to the Directive, the legislation and regulations in line with the EEA Convention and the rules on which it is based should be established. At the time of the EEA contract, it was accepted by the Icelandic government and the Generals that this was an adequate implementation of Iceland's commitments according to the book. However, in view of recent developments in the country in recent years, ESAs make it clear that this induction does not guarantee sufficient priorities for the introduced EEA rules for other legislation. As noted in the report, the Agency published a logical opinion on the subject by the end of September last year. It asks that Iceland take adequate measures to correct matters. In recent months, the Icelandic government has been working on a reply letter on the basis of the opinion, which was sent to the Agency by the end of the last week, as approved by the government and the presentation of the State Department of State. As the report shows, one of the issues that have been considered is the question of whether there is a administrative problem in setting rules in the general legislation to prioritize EEA legislation against other legislation. The Icelandic government has also stressed that there is great uncertainty about the prerogative effects of EEA rights in the area following recent sentences, Germany's administrative court and France's administrative committee, which are traced in reply letters. Therefore, it is premature to offer suggestions for the adjustment of the publication. For the same reason, ESAs are held captive by treaties against Iceland until the case is clarified. Then the government was directed to regulations 3rd. track No. 2/1993 have remained unchanged from the office of the law, far off without the Agency's reason to comment on it. The protocol has been successful and will not be seen to see that Iceland is the understudy of other parties when it comes to the implementation of EEA regulations. Furthermore, it is not the ESA's job to appeal to these treaties on their own. This involves an unauthorized intervention in the national affairs of the country. ESAs are primarily designed to concentrate on the implementation and induction of individual types recorded in the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I didn't hear him answer the question I asked for the highest. Minister. But his review of this subject was very revealing and helpful. The situation is that we are here in a situation where ESAs, as mentioned here, have entered a formal violation of treaties with us Icelanders. It's being followed with all severity, including with this reasoned opinion dated in September 2020, so there is no postponing on the part of the Agency. Of course, this is a very important case and was attributed, as any person knows, that when the EEA deal was legally established at its time, it was accepted by the Icelandic government and the Generals to Article 3. The Act on the EEA Treaty would provide adequate induction on the commitments of this important 35 books. That is why it is my question: Has there been a planned plan to react if we were to break free from such a language, which, of course, we all hope not to happen? And in this regard, what would be the result of speaking in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u41	A respectable president. What I tried to trace here in my previous answer, and thank you. A senator for the queries, in fact, is not only the perplexing issue but also the current situation. As presented, both were exposed. The Foreign Affairs and the Government... we've sent an answer letter that makes our views very clear. I'm not going to repeat our point of view. They are very clear, and that is how it is today. However, I feel that the argument that we make in the matter is of the nature, that is, my opinion, that they should not be taken into account. I call attention to the success of the implementation of the EEA contract in Iceland. I draw attention to it, too, if we compare it with the countries involved in this cooperation. It's a 25-year-old deal, that when we made it, as I mentioned earlier, in the case as a matter of course. A senator asked about it, and he was not making comments on it. That's what it says. Our stand is very clear. It's been presented and introduced. The Foreign Affairs Committee, approved by the government and sent to ESA.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for a fine speech that I agree with, especially the red cord that I especially welcome, to underline the importance of the EEA Convention and the Community, this most important international agreement we have so far made. We remember that it wasn't quite a long time ago, a half or two years ago, that we had a lot of discussions about the third energy package. Then there was one particular group, the middle party, who fought it on the basis of their ideals, and we felt that there was a particular pressure within the Independence Party to take another way, which he stood up for and followed through. Nevertheless, the head of the Independence Party at its time in this environment said that it would be necessary to revise all energy laws and, on the other hand, the nature and content of being a member of the EEA community. That's why I want to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Has there been a formal process, examining the nature or nature of participation in the EEA community? And if so, when will it be? A Foreign Affairs Commission informed on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I'm not going to minimize the importance of the EEA contract, but we have certainly received other agreements that can give full evidence that we are even more important, such as. It's part of the Atlantic Alliance. However, regarding what has been done during this terms when it comes to the EEA contracts, there have been at least two reports in which the aquifers are identified as being in the EEA, each of which is the main theme. We can say that the first report may have more ways in which we can be more concerned with our interests, for sadly, it was so that when people applied for participation in the European Union, our interests in Brussels were very relaxed. Much of it was terminated with the existing arrangement, but it has been restored now, e.g. depending on what I can do, representatives of every embassy in Brussels will know to pay special attention to matters that are associated with them in the early stages when we can have the most effect. Then, of course, it is the report carried out under the leadership of Björn Bjarnason's son. That work is exactly what happened. A senator is referring to him. There's a lot of stories for everyone about the EEA community. It is very difficult when you discuss these matters, and there are some things that are not right. When it's time. A senator was referring to, i.e. The input, and refer to the words of the Chairman of the Independence Party, is exactly what was done in that report. It is very extensive and illuminating and has been praised beyond the cliffs. I think it was very sensible to go to that job, and I believe that the discussion became more objective and more meaningful after it came out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u44	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that the Independence Party is not going to fail to take the initiative to leave the EEA organization or to make changes. We're normally protected by intensive interest, and it's extremely important. I also think it's important to get to the top. A minister brought forth the involvement in NATO. That is exactly where we are blessedly valid members where we sit at the table, influence, vote, which is different from what we actually have against all the number of ships we get here, where our arrival is less. All right. I'm not going to talk about the European bodies here. But in the second question, I would especially like to ask a minister about things that are not to be surprising to anyone, i.e. That the European Union is atoll union, and we are having frequent discussions about the freedom of the trade and freedom of our Icelanders, which is extremely important. While the European Union has made 55 free trade contracts, or deals with 55 areas, we have made 32 contracts, free trade agreements, or negotiations with certain areas. Of these 32, 27 are made with EFTA, which is said to be in cooperation with other nations. On the basis and in relation to the EEA Convention, we are taking advantage of our freedom. Then there are five contracts, including the Hoyvík Convention and more contracts that are important, but we have not used our freedom more than we have, in fact, five non-international contracts that we have taken the initiative to do. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister, because he is the freedom of toll and the freedom to negotiate: What agreement can we expect to see now? Will there be a tremendous increase in numbers in view of the need to take advantage of this freedom that we Icelanders enjoy? Or it could be, if, for example, we were. In the European Union, that we were dealing with 55 free shop contracts? Today we only have 32 of them, 27 through EFTA. [[The president calls.]] Will a minister promote the increase of free trade agreements for freedom or the freedom of the Icelanders to negotiate for himself and for Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u45	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and be especially glad that the leaders of the groups who want to join the European Union have come to realize that we are in a customs union, that the European Union is a toll alliance, and we cannot negotiate as much as we wish if we enter the European Union. Then we've given up our business freedom. We're in a hurry. [[Up front.]] I'm glad that's accepted. I've been called all the bad names for pointing this out, both to community centers and to other places of the EU. I believe the moment has passed when a person is called - I'm not going to review the words that have been applied to the one here when he has pointed out that the European Union is a customs alliance and that if we walked in there, we would be giving up our freedom of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u46	What contracts...?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u47	A respectable president. Wait a minute. A senator not to interrupt because of trouble. A senator misunderstands certain things here. First, it's the report we did, which is called Forward march! It compares free - trade networks between the European Union and EFTA and Iceland. If we take the world's population, we have far more people on earth than the European Union, including the European Union. Because me and the Icelanders have a free shopping relationship with China. If we compare these networks, what we have today and then the European Union, we can never conclude that the European Union's vacation market is better. But it's not only that, Mr. Honorable President, but we also have less tolls. We have lower tolls because we independents have used ourselves to lower tolls. We've got 90% toll freedom, but if we were in the European Union, it'd be 27%. However, before we dropped the tolls, we had a better environment in this regard. It was stated in the literature when we were applying for involvement in the European Union that it would adversely affect the competitiveness of our most important exports, and then when I refer to the seabed and industry, if we went in there because of the fact that tolls would increase in the goods we need to do our production. [[The president calls.]] In terms of the free shopping contracts, we'll always keep on doing so and from EFTA, there's some things we can go over later. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review of this report. I'm just gonna run out on a few things. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for bringing the report to us and, of course, thanking the foreign service personnel for winning it and making this fine overview, for, of course, this report is primarily a summary of the EEA partnership or implementation of the EEA Convention, not exactly policy plans or presented as a different document. However, I would like to express immediately that I miss the fact that no special assessment of the benefits and weaknesses of the EEA Convention has yet been made. It was a fine report that primarily described the benefits of being in the company, but we also have to have the courage to discuss better, potential faults, etc. I miss that it wasn't done, Mr. President, because I can't imagine any deal is that it's just pros, but no defects or dangers. It is necessary for Iceland as an island nation in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean to have a good cooperation with other countries and to share in international work, and I may review it further in the second report. I'd like to mention the so - called accounting 35, which was here only in the past. I have to say, given what I heard on answers from the highest. Minister to questions. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun is not expected in any way that Iceland could lose this matter that ESAs have appealed to us. It is very important for us to be clear whether there is any response plan or plan, which we hope will not be. I have full faith that the work being done by the Ministry to Respond to ESA is good, and we've had a certain presentation on it at the State Department, and we're all covering it up. I'm just worried if there's no plan to be if this goes wrong. I'm just gonna come into a few places in this report, that's a good summary. On page 18. 22 deals with EU energy and climate policy to 2030. This is actually the policy that has been introduced directly and indirectly in recent years, unfortunately, especially with the method used here for the third energy package in the last summer. Then we are taking steps into this EU energy package, and we will probably continue to do so when this so-called pure energy package arrives, unless something changes. The review of the book 35, which I discussed at the outset, is not going deeper into it. I note, though, that this is an enormously important and important matter. Of course, it is our requirement that Icelandic law go beyond foreign law, and it is something that hopefully comes close to working with good reasoning, which I do not doubt will come to pass. The list here of details is very good. It will benefit us in comparison and in reflecting on our concerns. On page 18. 14 and 15 are well - understood as to how the induction has worked. As long as we work together to handle certain assignments and responsibilities and commitments, we must live up to them. As a result, it is important, regardless of how much we feel about everything that comes from the European Union and everything we have to introduce, that we are under it. It seems that there is something wrong with applying, but it is also interesting to see an enormous number of national regulations in 2020 from the previous years, as shown in the chart on page 20. 14th It is, in fact, remarkable to see that a huge number has been introduced. Economic Guard, I'm just gonna come in on it for a minute. It's very important, like the highest. The minister came in, and I am glad that if it's clear focus, it's to make sure that our embassy, those who work for us there, is well designed enough to care for this great responsibility. We should look for ways to increase if necessary, because these are important matters that are being watched for us. Of course, the Ministry of Education also needs to be in its toes, possibly increasing the number of its staff. But it is very important that we maintain everything in the European Union and can end up in the EEA Convention. I'm not going much deeper into this, Mr. President. However, I would like to point out here in the closing words and agree that international cooperation is important. However, we have seen that those on the other side of the EEA contract sometimes seek to interpret or apply it differently than we would like to say it is, as seen in this vaccine case or ban on export from the European Union. This reaction was handled well by a minister. However, it is clear that the European Union considers this a deal that can be drawn up when needed and I think it is time for Iceland to take advantage of it, too, when appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u49	Mr. President. I would like to start my speech by celebrating the decision taken here in October 2019 that for the first time a special report on the implementation of the EEA Convention would be published. The report on this subject replaced a regular discussion on the EEA Convention in the largest foreign policy report as the highest. Secretary of State gives it to the council every year. I believe it is particularly improving that the Council is given a special report on the implementation of the EEA Convention and that we take special attention on it because there is no use. I'm going to mention a few things related to the EEA contract and the current year. I would like to remind you that, of course, the Covid pandemic has had a major impact on our entire life, on the activities of the EU and the EEA contract at the same time. Also, I would like to stress that in the global pandemic, this global cooperation and international commitment in international cooperation have been an enormous force in the measures we've taken and, as is the most powerful authority in the EEA report on access to protective equipment, medical products, and vaccines. Also, what Iceland has participated in, in part, by collaboration programmes, through the EU's so-called Save Fund. It is good for the report we are discussing today to include the measures given by Covid which can be directly linked to our participation and participation in the EEA Convention. It also gives us an overview of the importance of cooperation. So that's what's good, and I hope to continue a special report on the implementation of the EEA Convention, published here at the General Assembly and discussed. The EEA Treaty is, as the report says, one of the most important international contracts the Iceland has ever made. A huge benefit comes from this contract. It is an almost solidified international agreement that Iceland is involved in and grants us various rights and responsibilities. We have access to one of the largest markets in the world, the Icelandic enterprise competes in equal terms with European enterprises in the areas of which the contract takes place and in particular for Icelanders to live and work in 31 countries in the EU and EEA community. So it is a huge deal. Because of the highest. For the first and last time in this ideal period, I must mention that former foreign minister, please. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, was before me here in a speech chair talking about the energy package, etc. which was very much discussed two years ago here at the council, was a lawsuit often based on great misunderstandings and misunderstandings. But it is good that the response to that discussion was to present this report. However, I would like to point out that despite some contribution to our protection in Brussels during this election period - it has been done both by a permanent representative of the Council of Professional Care and also by the Government's so-called priority in legal matters that are in the EU and that are directly involved in our interests - something that you would like to see before. I'd like to see our more and more intensive interests at Brussels. It is not enough to protect our interests as they are. Rather, we need to be there. It has been shown that this is of utmost importance. The Norwegian Economic Guard in this regard is exemplary. As soon as I say so, I realize that the Norwegians are far more populous than we Icelanders and have more money for their interest in Brussels. But I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of State and other departments, if they have not sent their agents already, to do so. Icelandic society gains and makes money because we maintain a more intensive interest guard and linking and linking at the site. As soon as I say so, of course, I'm aware of the limitations that Covid-19 has prepared us for what it means to be at the spot in Brussels and keep in our interests. Mr. President. I must mention that in the introduction to the report at the highest level. Secretary of State, on page 4, I feel a little defensive about the critical voices that have existed at the council, from certain political parties, or political parties, about our involvement in the EEA Convention. In particular, it is stated that the price for the benefit is not justified, often implied, and includes extensive production of EEA legislation. For example, Iceland has adopted 13.4% of the types adopted by the EU during the period 1994◯2016. It's actually something you think it's presented in order to speak to the critics who have lived on the EEA Convention, when we should, of course, calm down for all years that the percentage of types taken up by Iceland is higher. He's in a lawsuit. The speaker of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, stated that the types we were recording were quite numerous in the past year. I feel that this is the exact pandemic that has raged and the type of films we've been filming because of various measures that have taken place there. So I think we here at the General Assembly need to be on this huge, important contract, which Iceland is involved and not defend when it comes to criticism, but if there's something we need to improve, whether it is critical that our interests are not enough - I now remind you that former prime minister and foreign minister, Ásgrímsson Ásgisson, in his own time, right in 1994, spoke of the need for Europe's interests and Brussel. His words and encouragement are still valid. Our economic care is of utmost importance, and we need to continue it. We also need to work on these so-called recording halls of the EEA, we need to sort them out. It's not good to know how low this number is on the induction of the EU type. We certainly need to do so, and we need to take the time to do so. [[The president calls.]] Many of these types are technical, and often it is thought that some of them should be not entirely on the table of Senate committees but rather with officials to help out, at least from the technical aspects of the project. But that too has been corrected. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I'm going over a deadline, but I'd like to thank you very much that we're finally discussing the EEA contract here at the Congress Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is good that there is a general understanding of the importance of keeping our interests in this cooperation, and this has been greatly increased in later times as Ministers, has been under special effort in increasing the interest of interest, and has been followed. But about 13.4%, why it is being brought to the attention, it is only to present the facts. I haven't had anything to say that those who have buried most of the EU deal are the people who want to go to Iceland in the EU. They have ruthlessly claimed that we are even taking in 90% of the EU's types through the EEA Convention 90%. It's just wrong. It's simply wrong. They've talked about it as some kind of addition, it's really just about falling in there, and then we start running and controlling everything. It's all a misunderstanding. It's all a basic misunderstanding. I've been trying to draw out the facts of the EEA Convention and what it involves in the EU. Of course, there's sky and ocean in between. It became a turning point in the earlier discussion when the European Union was finally accepting the fact that the European Union is a toll alliance. We would give up our freedom of business by joining it. About this number, the increase as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson referred to that, as far as I know, mainly because of changes in the financial market, which are often very technical. But we show these numbers because we want to keep the facts up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u51	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for the counter-sponsore. I don't agree with the highest. On the contrary, it was shown that those who did most of the EU contract are members of the EU, on the contrary, found that they were members of the Central Party, which represented one of the longest lawsuits available in the history of the Parliament due to the energy package in the EEA Convention. It wasn't EU locked up there. But it is true, and we know that much of the types we've been taking here at the Council are the consequences of the financial collapse, and we are in fact still working out the consequences of improving financial guidelines. Many of these are very technical and wish we were finally to move away from that phase and go in other directions. I don't know, Mr. President, that there are EU lovers who have spoken about 90% recording, that this is the objective of the implementation of EU regulations through the EEA Convention. However, I think, and I think the highest. The minister of state agrees with me that 13.4% is too low, although we have been working our way in the past. I think we need to add when it comes to strengthening this induction process. However, we also need to work on this so that we are not on our heels and are not making up some building up of a group. [[The president calls.]] That's not a good practice. I think we'd agree to try to work this out. [[The president calls.]] But I don't know that 90% of the goal is something that's been promoted here at the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There's a big misunderstanding going on here. If we were in the EU, we'd take 100%. Because we're in the EEA, we'll take only 13.4%. That's the difference. It's not a choice. What the EU authorities have done to undermine the EEA agreement is to let it lie, and it has been observed here many times, not just in recent years, but decades, saying that it is almost as good as being in the EU because we're taking up to 90% of the EU types. It's not like that. We're just participants in a certain part of the team. I remember there are 34 chapters in this European partnership, all of which are under the EU and the EEA Convention would be in full 10 chapters. 13 are completely outside. And because we're the EEA, we took over this year about 13.4%. If we went to the EU, we'd take 100%. Each person can see how powerful it would be if we went from 13.4% to 100%. This is shown in the report to show the difference between being in the EEA and then the EU. We're in a hurry. And because of what? However, a senator pointed out that some members of the other classes certainly do not want to join the European Union then, they often used this argument, or a lack of logic, which has been active in so years and decades but is simply wrong, that we are about to record all of the EU's types. We're filming between 13 and 14%.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u53	Mr. President. I don't need a fatherly line of reproof about being involved in the European Economic Areas not equivalent to EU membership. Of course I realize that, Mr. President. However, it is not possible to deny it. 13 of the EEA Convention and the EES recording balance to explain the entire page. A delay in the recording of the EU contract can have a negative effect on the objective of the contract. I was, too, if ever. The minister listened to my speech, commending the Icelandic government for having taken part in the implementation of the EEA types, and we are within the reference threshold set on the internal market of the EEA's environment for the introduction of the EEA types. This may be an acceptable goal or an acceptable performance to someone. But I think it would be better if our goals were higher. That's why I also took an example of the wording and specific tone in the introduction to the EEA report. That's where we can go. Secretary of State detected. But I feel there a certain tone directed in certain directions, those who have been digging under the EEA Convention here at the Council. That's what I'm talking about. Instead, I would have liked to see a clearer and stronger tone in the introduction of how much benefit this contract is, how much we've benefited from it for the 25 years that we've been in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u54	Mr. President. I just wanted to introduce these issues and this report. This is the second time she's submitted, so we speak specifically to her. I agree, and I think it's really important that we can discuss the vacation agreements and the EEA business specifically, not just as an extra matter inside a large foreign minister's report on international affairs. I have been here for the season at the EFTA and EEA Parliamentary Committee and have had the opportunity to learn how this is going on and what effect this small nation, in cooperation and cooperation with the other EFTA nations, can have on one thing and another in implementing these agreements. As with any foreign partnership, the field ministry last year was conducted online. However, these are recent events that have taken a long time, e.g. The B cancerit case, followed by the country's attitude toward them and what sort of contracts would be made. Because the above asked which countries were involved, they have been involved in the efforts to renew agreements and improve them with many people, e.g. The Mercosur and South Korea, because we stand competitively in sight against the United States and the EU, which South Korea renewed its agreement. We, the EFTA countries, have not yet improved or replaced our situation as we would like to. This is talking about all created things, which are just being considered here; business, sustainable development, and work protection. We found it in Liechtenstein in the summer of 2019. There were also workers in the labour market, as you would like, at least once a year, and very many cases below, from this issue to #metoo, work dependency and other things that have been discussed, north-generation, and whatever else. Of course, there are many new negotiations and new contracts. The report under which is very well and pointed. Some things are handled well, and they give us a little thought why we're involved in this cooperation and what it's done for us. I just want to grab down in a few places. I agree with what's been said about our protection in Brussels, it matters. We trusted in the front of the Norwegians for a long time that they would let us know if something had to be changed, fixed, or kept our eyes on. They've got a lot of men out there to watch. Since then, we've been improving this very much, and the Ministry of Education has all come with employees in Brussels. When we visited the 2019 people, one felt that it really is important to have people from previous faks to tell us even more about what would depend, of course, when it is perhaps too late and even on the way to the EU, to be able to influence something at the formative point rather than to do it. This is exactly what these professionals do. Of course, they follow the priorities of the government in our best interests of the EU. They review what is best, as a minister entered, the green covenant and the digital manifest. Here is also the priority list of the government adopted in the priors. It was made in collaboration with stakeholders and placed before a foreign - language committee that has discussed it. It is important that as many people come to such treats so that many eyes can look beyond what lies ahead and what we are doing at any time. The previously laid list was changed today. Now it may be easier if you can put it that way. It is easier to update the list, where new priorities can be added as they go forward and better addressed so that everyone is clear about the interests of Icelandic interests. It's not a long time you have here, but what I think might be a reason to mention specifically in this new list of the green covenants, and the digital file is a five-year policy that the European Union has on sexual equality and new discrimination laws, and the fight against sexual violence and domestic violence. It is our goal to communicate our knowledge of equality to the institutions of the EU. At the same time, there is also a proposal to ensure that all EU remuneration within the EU will receive a fair minimum wage. This is followed by the creation of a central Commission of money fraud and terrorist funding and the harmony of the rule work even more fully. Then there's some more recent cooperation issues that were listed in the older list. These include energy and climate policies, and education, youth, and sports. Then there's one thing I really care about, i.e. change of EU application rules. There we are trying to make sure that when it is accepted into the EEA Convention, we are able to limit the import of organic materials because of our special status on animal and plant diseases. I think that's one of the things we've been discussing, especially when we've been talking about agricultural and customs and all of that, as we've been traced. I think it's something that often falls into a foreign debate. A respectable president. What is also here and is very important in our cooperation with the EEA are the European climate laws and the implementation of the economy. Now entering the council a case involving the cycle economy, which I really hope we can do the law because I think it's important. It is fine on page 19. 19 in the proposal where the regulations of non-carbon are recommended. There's talk of a carbon leak, and, of course, we're talking about the difference between imported products and what we're moving to a foreign land. Now it's time to fly. There's a lot to talk about, and it's done well with the EES building fund. This is one of these big tasks that I often feel are of little consequence. Having access to funds is important. This tells us that we've made a little better. It was here, for example. Maintain an equal convention that we met together with Portugal in 2019. As a result, a database of information was developed, e.g. on the realm of equality. It then reviews the cooperation between Iceland and Poland and other countries, including In a field of earth's heat, the building fund is a source of strength. The dark side of the deal with Poland is also established, i.e. the attitude of the local government, which has been very sad about queer people who have been under attack, as we know. The EFTA countries have condemned declarations and positions on these human rights matters, which are so self-recognizable and, in fact, govern the rules of the fund, that jobs in Poland cannot be strengthened by the arrival of these communities if they remain occupied. I'm really glad that's been done. It is in the water that a new era has begun, and they are being prepared for discussions with a new agreement. But now it's time, Mr. Honorable President. [[The president calls.]] I could talk about it a lot and a long time, but I'm glad I can talk about it here. It is important, for it is a rule that matters to us, although it is often said that everything that is introduced with the EEA is really bad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u55	President. It's a good thing that the EEA is doing so well, as indicated in the foreign secretary's report on the implementation of the EEA Convention. There were, though, some points I would like to talk about in the report. I agree with what it says on the EEA Convention, by permission of Presidents, that it is the most important business deal we have in Iceland, with the unequivocal benefit that the EEA has brought to the nation in recent decades. In fact, the EEA Convention can be said to be one of the most important international agreements we have ever made. I noticed, though, that Icelandic interests in marine policy are not compatible with EU interests. This wording has always disturbed me pretty much, especially in view of the fact that the fish - control system here in Iceland was one of the largest resources available to the nation on a silver plate. This seems to have allowed private companies to make use of the resource as they please. Now I don't necessarily know if a private company would use this gain better if we were here with EEA policy in the marine future, but we'll have to wonder if the interests of the public in that country would be better paid in that country and if there would be any restrictions on a crazy profit and the unfavourable use of the resource. They ask me that I have never been properly answered by the Icelandic authorities. Rather, the possibility is thrown out of the table because it's supposed to be obvious that we don't get anything out of the partnership. But I would like to see this possibility discussed by what would be best for the public in the country, not what it would look like for the private companies who are allowed to use the resource for themselves. In terms of the general administration and activities associated with the EEA contract, this EU-based retail point remains to be observed. ESA's performance assessment has stated that induction is not working properly and that induction is making other comments. Hopefully, they will be tried to deal with them. I also wondered if it would be wise to try to fit in with some intermediate step between the adaptation process in Brussels until these types can enter into the council for induction, whether it might be possible to have some kind of counselling or specialist that might be taken, so seen, in this process so that they could get information about the types of induction in a faster way and be able to get confirmation of the materials and whether they need to be examined specifically before they go into the process in this country. I find the word "carbon-free continents" interesting. I wondered if this would mean more for Europe to export pollution, so to speak, namely. to countries with less monitoring or poor financial resources and may be able to support European pollution. Hopefully, this goal will be examined in the context of the whole world. The same can be said of the use of a vaccine against Covid. For herd resistance in the whole world and for the safety of everyone, I believe that Europe is trying to share the vaccine beyond Europe's alone. Although Iceland is small, we must not forget that the world is bigger than us and bigger than Europe and is fundamental to making decisions in terms of the benefits of the earth and the people of all places. The report speaks of cooperation in order to increase the security of the Internet. I am stressing that all of this work should be done with the individual's rights in the foregrounds and that the stakes of big corporations do not get the upper hand in discussions and decisions as far as this is concerned. At the end, I'd like to say that we need to be active in caring for our interests, and I hope that the good developments that have taken place in recent years will continue. Sadly, we do not seem to have enough resources or resources to care for these things as well as we would like. But hopefully we will be able to keep up our arms and develop this important worldwide work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Just for a word. The senator's actions are exactly what is done, there are EFTA working groups who identify the effects of these actions before they go to the EEA Committee and, of course, continue to do so. A special database has also been set up available to all who would like to be able to explore the consequences and what is going on when it comes to the EEA work. And then we have a representative of the advisers in particular to observe what happens in the early stages. With respect to the seafront, we can and should have all the opinions on the seas here in Iceland. The good thing about us being out of this partnership is that we can do it ourselves. But because of him. A senator was referring to a hunting cover and a bidder, et cetera. Icelandic companies also have access to EU fishing history because it is exactly the same thing as I think in most of the countries that are operating on a seabed, that there is some kind of structure like this. It's in very few places, I don't know anything about it at any point, at any point that there's a sustainable source of free fishing because it's a limited resource. But I hope that we are most of the opinions of the world, no matter what our views on what has been made, and whether it's as successful as it has been, that it is important for Iceland to have full control of its own resources, and that we who are in this room as the people of the country can make the changes that we want on that system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u57	President. I'm glad to hear about these types, that they're smart before they enter the EEA Committee, and hopefully that job will continue. What I'm trying to communicate with the seabed is more about what this discussion is all about. This may not be as much of a social discussion as it was some years ago. Once pressure has put us in the EU, it has always been said that it is better for us to be outside. Of course we have some contracts, I'll figure it out. And this, to have custody of our own resources, we may be a little out of the EU rights but I've always wondered if there's anything in the EU, if we were in all the way, about the water export that would somehow improve the individual's interests. It might not be. But I would like to see some kind of food or discussion about it. The wording always takes so much into account these private companies, but I may have a high dreams of how the resources of the resources will be used and how all of this work. But I don't know if it would be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm absolutely certain that we always do, because we never achieve perfection in being real, we're supposed to compare our fishing system with other systems somewhere else and see if we can learn anything from what we're doing there. But it's my opinion that we shouldn't give up this for someone else. If we examine the countries that have walked in the European Union, we will find clear examples such as those of the British people now who walked out, the British media contended that they caught 25% of what was caught in their own jurisdiction after spending 40 years in the European Union. However, there were all the arrangements to keep this in British companies and that the British did the same, but it did not work out better. And even when they walked out, as we know, the requirements of the European Union were very clear about getting to fish in the British jurisdiction. I don't know anything better for Iceland and Iceland than Iceland and Iceland will take custody of their business and then we'll handle it and we'll agree or disagree. But at least we can control it, then I'm talking about us Icelanders, by paying votes for the categories we think are most likely to do things well. Without me going to the seaside discussion, I'm in it and I've done it many times, people want to forget when they talk about something missing during the discussion, that one of the questions I get from my colleagues is, how do you do this? The last time I knew, we were the only land in OECD that takes taxes from fishing, all the rest of them paying with him. This is sustainable fishing, but self-sustaining fishing is a huge problem all over the world. So there is no doubt about it, even though we can never claim that we have achieved perfection in anything we do, that these factors, sustainability and that we are not using the taxpayers' money to pay off the project as we do in other countries, are something we do not have to worry about because of the fishing regime we have today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm not saying that she's perfect, like nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u59	President. I appreciate those answers. I don't have anything else to say, it may be a bigger discussion that needs to be done somewhere else than in this hole.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u60	Mr. President. We'll discuss the report of the Foreign Minister on the EEA Cooperation and we already have several causes. Councilmen comment and review the contents of the report with different emphasis. But it sounds to me like most people that we generally agree on the value of the contract and its positive effect on Icelandic society. At any rate, I can confidently agree that the European Economic Convention is one of the most important business agreements ever made by Icelanders, if not the most important. In the introduction of the report, the highest. Minister over a few things and accuses them even. ... acomplicationof the deal that needs to be corrected. According to the secretary, there is a lack of enough European products to be fully free of the import into the EU and that there is a significant imbalance in the agreement on agricultural trades. This needs to be improved, and, of course, I agree, because it's our job to protect the interests of Icelandic and Icelandic companies. On the other hand, we also need to improve the customs monitoring, which will be damaged by a recent case regarding the import of cheeses and failures of registrations. We just need to be careful in general, and I think we're on the right track. A considerable amount of space in the Minister's report will review the impact of the Covid pandemic on EU activities and management of the EEA Convention. There, various grasses are taught as ministers and senators have already taken care of. Of course, things have been unprecedented, complicated, but at the same time, a rapid decision - making process was required by the government. Some decisions have been good according to and others inferior. We may see the end of this difficult time, but what I consider in this report is the involvement of the Icelandic government of informal Ministerial Conferences, which is not the norm, i.e. Ministerial conferences in the EU Member States. As usual, Minister of Justice on the basis of the Schengen team has participated in formal and informal meetings as before, but in my opinion, cooperation is always good, and of course we should stick together when problems arise. The use of telecommunications in the European Union is another of the good things that have come out of all of this and mentioned in this report. This development is good because it offers closer cooperation because telecommunication technology allows us to proclaim events with shame, lack, or no expense, much time savings, and thus may make various meetings more accessible to people, and most not least less carbon tracks, since we all aim for a greener future. That's where I'm going to be, even. in the green covenant, which is discussed on page 18. 19th report. A brief section on the integrated economic responses of the EU Member States is provided in a report by the Minister. It says that on March 13, 2020, the European Commission published a message on integrated economic reactions. The rules say that Member States can change the rules in general for enterprises, delay the collection of public remuneration, and limit short-term projects in all areas. At that time, governments can pay compensation for the damage done by an enterprise directly because of the epidemic. The report also says that the current situation has led to a reduced access to cash. However, the Commission and the ESA have declared that laws were activated in the EU Convention and the EEA Convention on State Support in the case of a serious economic disorder. In this regard, there has been some of the results. they are looking at the predictable recession of land production, the strict measures taken by the public involved in meetings, school schools and other factors, the pressures of health systems, and the challenges of international travel. A temporary way to support the economy in this year has been adopted, 2021. So this is clear in the secretary's report and informative report at the same time. At that time, the epidemic has been considered to be an unusual event in the sense of a prior agreement, which allows countries to improve the damage and loss of income that are directly caused by disasters and unusual events. Finally, the ESA set up a team to help the EFTA countries in the EEA with interpretation of government regulations and to respond promptly to government inquiries. According to this, co-ordination within Europe has been in many areas, whether in the EU Member States or in the European Economic Areas, but there is, of course, a lot to be criticized about national consultations, particularly the lack of consultation due to the closing of the borders and various measures for cross-examination. But as I say, it is also easy to be wise afterward, when immediate action requires serious and urgent situations. The minister also mentioned in his introduction some reports that he has been working for the EEA and improving it. The last report appeared in late 2019, if I'm correct, which group was set up at the request of 13 members of Congress who wanted information on the benefits and shortcomings of the Icelanders to the EEA Convention. This report is of great importance and success. I think it covers more than 300 pages, and I would like to discuss some of these. But I see my time is running out, I was going to say so much. Then I'm gonna run over a few things. The report included evaluations of the contract on a number of factors. But I wanted to mention that on page 20. 46 is an interesting account of life before and after the EEA, as it were, which doubtless underscores the impact this contract has had on our opportunities for Iceland and the status of Icelandic companies and commercial life in general. With the permission of the president, I would like to read a brief chapter that says: ▪ The common market has proved to be a good look for economic growth and innovation, attracting investments, and promoting international competitiveness. The market also creates the right to study, travel, reside, and work where they themselves choose. They benefit from more selection of benefits to better price than would be considered in addition to a clear demand for personal protection and environmental protection, social and consumers. One of the interviewers said that he had studied at a German university in 1983. Then Icelandic students would have been treated like the inhabitants of other continents. Medical examination, X-ray and urine and faecal biopsy were required. In a German city, countless proofs of residence and registration were made. German study and a special test were given as the conditions for reinvestment in college. Then some care required a German driver's license. This would all be over now. Another interviewer who has been involved in scientific research and innovation said that with the EEA contract, the European Union's sponsorship has opened up a gap in progress in research and development of new employment in Iceland. Institution became a course of research. New creation companies created in a number of areas... V.E.G. President. I'd also like to include information in the report on Iceland's position on the deal. A survey of Machine was conducted in 2019, showing that only 11% of the sample is major or very negative to the agreement. However, it is also noted that 20% of those questioned have little or no knowledge of the contract, so we may need, i.e. Governments, to inform the public more about what is in this contract and what it has brought us. The above record of the lives of a student in Germany for a contract shows that the contract has completely transformed the landscape of the public and the business in Iceland for the better. Of course, it is our government to weigh and weigh the individual aspects of the contract and its activities in all places guided by the interests of the Icelanders. It seems to me from this report that the Minister is very aware that a steady interest assessment needs to be conducted and examined, as well as that we need to be careful of the contract in all places, doing the best we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u61	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of state for his report and his history with it. He had a lot to say and had to talk fast, but it's all right with it, that's a lot to do when much is under. But that is far from the point of this matter. I'd like to start by saying the best thing. Minister when discussing the importance of the EEA contract. We've had a place here at the Council Hall on the EEA Convention and its importance, and I think we've always agreed that it's very important. That's why I agree completely with what's going on in the introduction, or maybe forewords I should call it rather, this fine report that reviews the importance of this contract for Icelandic interests, and that's why it is extremely important to keep it in the air very important. The public and companies in the country need to be instructed about him, as well as those of our partners in Europe. It needs to be held up constantly. Of course, we know that the EEA Treaty, although extremely important to us, may not be just the top concern of the judge, the European Union, when dealing with his own issues. Therefore, it is necessary to constantly remind ourselves of him and to uphold his standards toward the European Union. I think I can say it with a very good conscience at the top. In many respects, the minister of foreign affairs has done a great deal of good in this role. V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has worked hard to maintain Iceland's interests over the EEA agreement and I commend him for that. Of course, you can always say that you can do better, and I've said in the past: You need to do better. It's in this case like so many others, you can always do better. For my part, I don't regret the money spent on maintaining this interests. I think we should be very careful to stay in the field as we possibly can and at the cost as far as the economic benefits of this contract are concerned, we must preserve it. The report reviews a subject, and it is not surprising that the Covid epidemic has set its mark on this cooperation, i.e. The implementation of the EEA Convention, but, of course, similar to that of the European Union. The subjects have then passed the EFTA on our side of the EEA contract, and in many ways we have benefited greatly from the cooperation that has been involved in the Covid epidemic, the development of vaccines, the purchase of all kinds of equipment, etc. then develop vaccines. And certainly, all of us would have liked it to have been better at the European Union's field to obtain vaccines with their contracts. But this may have been part of the fact that the European Union started to respect business freedom and not prohibit the export of vaccines such as the United States and Britain. The European Union may have been in such a state. But things are all looking for better now, and I have strong conviction that if we had tried to be on our own in these matters, we would not have been better off. Then I'd like to go back to other factors that are involved in the recording of projects in Iceland according to the EEA Convention. It's a few things, maybe because of the Covid situation, but generally speaking, we're doing a pretty good job, and that's very good because when this deal is handled, it's obviously extremely important that we, in some sense, who are the less involved in this, Iceland may not be the most proud of the EFTA countries, do our commitments and do what we're supposed to do so that it doesn't cause people to wonder if our interest in fulfilling our commitment is falling. Then you might think it would be right to stop this partnership, i.e. This is Iceland's treaties. This cannot happen at all. So I'm glad we're doing a good job in this subject, and I'm in the report at the highest level. Minister has it completely clear. Then, of course, the European Union is in charge of something of enormous importance to Iceland. These are two major plans and plans for the European Union, which involve the green treaty for Europe and what is called the European Union's digital staff. These are things that will touch us, and it is very important that we make sure that we are very familiar with what is happening in these areas. This is especially about the green covenant. It contains, for example, This central issue of page 19 called carbon spills are being made aware of the danger of moving to countries with less stringent conditions than those of others. Talk about depositing the import charge to ensure that the prices of imported products reflect carbon tracks. Of course, carbon taxes are tools that we need to use, and it will reveal what governments want to do about it. But I think it's inevitable to go that way too in Iceland. This will be discussed in the digital registry. It shows that the issues are on the top list of the government and that this will have a major impact here on the EEA and Iceland. I expect the same value for the green covenant, although this is not the case in this way in the report. I'd like to, because time is so short and there's so much to go over, to mention only the cooperation plans of the European Union. The report shows that Iceland will not be seeking to participate in all EU co-work programmes and some only in part. Then there are 12 programs, either for the forward or for the new programs in which we are involved. But it would have been very helpful to also have an overview of the plans and areas where Iceland has decided not to reach out and participate. Besides, I know the highest. Minister of State would be disappointed if I didn't bring up here what's going on in his introduction to the construction of the projects and the number of them and what follows here that the EEA deal is the best solution for Iceland because we get everything that's right for us and we're our best interests, but we let go somewhere else. I just want to say that because there is a 13.4% talk we've talked about in the past that I now missed the ultimate. A minister should not update this figure today because it is so important to him that we know exactly how this is. But it's a comparison that doesn't seem to hold any opinions in itself. It's like we'd go through the Icelandic Law Museum and we'd appreciate the value of the law, and all the laws would be allowed by themselves, including, e.g. The Constitution alone, it would be clear that the Constitution had nothing to say in Iceland because it had only mercy alone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, what these types are mattered, not by the masses. [[The president calls.]] This knows the best. Minister, of course, he likes to entertain the devil, and he keeps on doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I found much good in his language, and I couldn't help but agree with it. A senator when he points to that. And thank you for the warm words to me. However, we will never reach perfection in upholding our interests, either in this cooperation or in other activities. We are to set the goal of doing so because no one is doing it for us. Besides, I want to thank you, a respectable president. A senator for bringing up 13.4%. When I started working as a minister of foreign affairs, men spoke in a very different way, and I'm just very happy, seeing how we feel about how the European Union is going. There's a chance that me and what. A senator just disagrees about it, and I don't comment on it. However, we are at least at the point where we should talk about this from these facts. It was always claimed here that it was up to 90%. To argue that this 13.4% is far more important than the other 80% plus - I've never seen any analysis of which laws and rules are more important than others or is of greater importance. It's just that if we went into the European Union, we'd have to record a lot more types than we do now. There's a very big difference. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A senator to whom I thought to be good, and also, even though there is a possibility that our differences in opinion are quite clear when we do so, that we are now talking about this from these facts. That's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u63	Thank you very much. Minister. It's this with the statistics we know there are many things useful. But there are also things that can be said with statistics that are not in harmony with reality, the consequences that can be read out of the statism, or statistics. Of course, I think the Minister knows that there are a huge number of forms approved in the European Union that would not be of any concern to Iceland's interests. Of course, this knows the Minister, but I'm not going to carve it out with him. This also involves what is said about customs, which includes toll numbers and toll numbers, which are also counted as 90% toll freedom. I can come and show that OECD data show that toll protection on agricultural products in this country is 77% but only 4% in the European Union. There is one factor that can be mentioned. I think it's gonna have to look at it in terms of the benefits. This statism doesn't say anything about the interests. What's that toll number? What interests are behind the customs? If there's no interest in much of this toll number, it doesn't matter what proportion it is. It matters what the interests are. I think it's the best. Ministers don't mention the interests. He prefers to stick with these statistics. I'm not questioning the highest. Ministers may count and add, but that's not what this is about. It's about the interests behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator back in front of you and grab the ball from him. First, just because we were taking lots of things that wouldn't touch us: I think that dog. A senator has not taken a good example, since if we, for example, do we? Entering the European Union can handle a lot of types, e.g. In the fishing business. It is of little importance to countries that do not pursue fishing because they are not close to the sea, but it would be important to us. Certainly, much of the cooperation or policy we do not have now would have a major impact on us. Clearly, we would be deeply affected if we had to take from the European Union every type we had to do if we were in there. About the customs: if I have to. A senator is moving in tomorrow, and we're moving in on a customs number. There's no toll on this now, there's 27% tax freedom in the European Union, 90% for us. If we move something in, we move it in on these toll numbers, but if we get involved, the customs would rise. [[Up front.]] It's just our best interests as immigrants and consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u65	What is the big context?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u66	That's exactly the big picture. Hv. A senator is a bit busy interrupting now and all in good shape about it. Regarding agriculture: If we want to reduce ground protection, we'll do it because we have our freedom of business, that's so simple, we can control it. If we decide tomorrow at the Icelandic General Assembly to have 100% tax freedom on farm products, we'll agree on it because we're in charge of it. If we entered the European Union, we would no longer be in control of it, others would. It's a big interest, a respectable president, that we keep our business freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u67	Thank you very much. Secretary of state again. It seems to me that we've come to agree that we can't figure this out in the pont. But I'm stressing that when we're discussing this sort of thing, we're going to have to make it out of the advantage that's behind us. Whether behind the toll number is billions of imports to a specific function or whether it is imported to 10,000 k. every year. It must matter when it's weighed and appreciated. You're absolutely right by the Topv. Foreign Minister to the European Union, a customs alliance to establish, although there is, of course, much more than a customs alliance, there is a common customs policy. This has previously been discussed in this discussion with the bus shops and vacation contracts at the highest level. Of course, a minister is very proud to have the freedom of the agreement, but he has not used it, seems to me, very much during his Minister's period to make many vacation contracts, even though it is perfectly free and permitted. EFTA free trade agreements, of course, and the free shop agreements we have made are, of course, fewer than in the European Union. And at least at the height. Ministers prefer to include all Chinese people with them, I think there is also another exercise in counting which I don't think is really appropriate when we discuss such matters that are of great importance to us all. But there it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u68	A respectable president. I'm going like a lot of other guys. The members of this report thank you and thank you or suggest that this report, which is now submitted for the second time, is a great need meeting for the Parliament, for members of the council and for the general public and gives an excellent overview of the implementation of the EEA Convention and is designed to increase our understanding of all of us on this important international contract to be involved in Iceland. I agree with the report in that respect, the spirit of the report, if you might say so, which is, of course, towards the EEA Convention that we have been in on for decades with the European Union, is a great need conference and has been a major benefit in Iceland in the whole of the world. But so that my discussion and discussion of this report may not all be one way, I'd like to mention some particulars, and there's also no reason to avoid discussing relevant issues that arise in the treaties and treaties of the nations, it's only inevitable with international agreements of this kind, as far as the EEA Treaty is concerned. I'm not going to take a lot of talk about it as high as I can. The minister of state has, as many points have pointed out, rightly, and I agree with him with it, about the number of types we are taking in here. Of course, the number is not what humans have wanted to be. It is quite different to balance, our participation in cooperation with the European Union through the EEA Convention and the rest of Iceland's entry into the European Union. It's a long road between us. But now I've put my eyes in and noticed that the EEA deal has been extending into areas other than what was originally intended for it. In this way climate has been more extensive in recent years, and in part the contract is used to support a different European accord with the European Union, which is completely unrelated to the European Union. This will be discussed in the report in chapter 5 of the box on page 22. 19, which is called issues that are at the top of the EEA activities and in dealing with the EU. It refers to a so-called green treaty, and this is a fine consideration of it, a covenant introduced by the European Commission to its member countries, not to other countries. It concerns the objectives of the European Union on climate, including the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union to such a large extent. I've been discussing it here in this field and elsewhere in Iceland's facility, of course, but also with Norway. But Iceland, of course, stands out as different in climate matters compared to almost the most successful countries in the world, but especially the European Union. Therefore, it was probably due to some kind of misunderstanding of the nature or extent of the European Union policy on climate change and likely also some kind of misunderstanding related to the continuation of the Kyoto Convention at its time, that in 2015, when the Paris Treaty, which is a continuation of the International Kyoto Protocol, announced its involvement in Europe's joint target by 40% of greenhouse gases in a very short period, between 2021 psalmist2030 and 1990. The EEA contract has continued to be used to work in this target that Iceland is in fact long ago met, did well by 1990, and, in fact, has been unattainable to fulfill it, except by perhaps recovery of wetlands, as I have noted several times. But I have felt that it is a poem to the implementation of the EEA Convention in the past year that it has been used in this respect and thereby slightly polluted with the clear vision that the EEA Convention was to provide and to cast forward in cooperation with these countries on the four levels of freedom, in the area of free trade between countries, capital and population transport. It is enough to take at the time the four freedoms and good reasons to sharpen many of the factors that are involved without being drawn into new groups of issues that are simply not in Iceland's best interests in dealing with the European Union. Finally, I would like to mention another aspect of my life in this report, on page 24. 23 of section 6.6 for what has been called Protocol 35 with the EEA Convention. Substitution 35 with the EEA Convention indicates that the EFTA countries, including Iceland, commits itself to, if necessary, the legislation that there is a conflict between national EU regulations and Icelandic regulations and other specific laws applies to EEA regulations. If there is a conflict between Icelandic legislation and introduced legislation in the EU then the Icelandic rules, i.e. Icelandic legislation needs to be interpreted on the basis of EEA rights. There has been speculation about this and much more than that, EFTA, ESA, forethought to point out that this publication does not seem to be supported by any Icelandic judicial action of 3rd grade. The EEA Convention, which stipulates how this should be implemented. These are new concerns on the basis of the surveillance agency, and I must commend the highest. Secretary of State for how he has held it and has held Iceland's position in favor of the EFTA monitoring agency in these matters by protesting this interpretation and pointing to the obvious fact that this has not been a problem here in the EEA community. But I might have thought that in this report more strongly, because this claim is actually premature to suggest a change in law in harmony with these comments made by the Agency, referred to the Supreme Court of Government of Germany, which recently concluded that the European Court did not side the National Court in Germany. Here, I wouldn't have thought it was premature to make changes. I would have had every reason to claim that it is not possible for Iceland to change law or constitution in terms of an Icelandic law or Icelandic legislation to be put aside from the European Union's rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u69	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. U.S. senators thank you very much. Minister for this report and thank the members of the council who have participated in the discussion. As I have often said in this chair, I find that we are more concerned about international matters. It will also be appreciated by the change that has been made that we take up a discussion of two reports, one on the implementation of the EEA Convention and the ones we will discuss below. It's a short time, and obviously it's not possible to go over everything here, but I wanted to come into Iceland's interest custody in the EEA and give my best compliments. Minister for how he has handled it in recent years or in the time he has been in office. You see, there was a little bit lacking in the past that we watched Iceland's interests when this deal came. I think we've lost some of our feet when it was decided to start negotiations with the European Union, and then the focus went in the wrong direction, and the interest service was kind of lost. That's why it's so important that it's taken over here. The priority of the government we see now is really just a recent phenomenon, and is really amazing that it is relatively recent, it is the third time that such a list is provided, and it is important that we have such a list because of course it is an impenetrable road for the highest degree. The minister of the State or State Department to cooperate with this, of course, is an agreement that each member of the Ministry must be responsible for its own litigation. All I want to say is that we've come to this place, and it's clear where our emphasis lies. Then I also assume that it is being followed, both in Brussels and here at home in the plots individually, i.e. this list of priorities. A respectable president. When we discuss the EEA deal, there are some who just want to walk in the European Union. I'm not on that line, but I think the EEA deal is our most important deal, and it really mattered to us. I sometimes feel as if the discussion somehow goes into the fact that we have to walk in the European Union because otherwise it is so much trouble to protect our interests in this contract. It is natural protocols that you can see so well when you have the opportunity to visit Brussels and get an introduction to the European Union and realize that all the European countries have a number of people, and they have whole offices to ensure the relationship's best interests, even though they are involved in the relationship themselves and that they have members at the council. So there is a mistake if people think that we need less to care for our interests. It really just means even more if something is. I have previously explained in this chair that I was surprised at one of my first international meetings that I went to as a senator when I was sitting there with members of the European Union and realized that they were fighting and embarrassed their colleagues who were sitting at the European Parliament. The decision is indeed wide and there is no way to say that entering the European Union somehow guarantees the better interests of Iceland in all this cooperation, because it is simply our always role. I must say, a respectable president, that I think it was a good time. It was also very important when the deal was a 25 - year anniversary, that we had a little more discussions about it. You could see this in the conversation about the energy package, but maybe we should have turned on the lights earlier, that there are too many who do not realize the value of this contract and how much it really means to us. Therefore, I just want to commend the work there has been done but also motivate us who are in this hall to promote the value of this contract and to be responsible for what we are responsible for. What do I mean by that? I mean, I think over the years, Icelandic politicians have washed their hands too often from the bills, or the synonyms, on the grounds that it comes from the European Union, is out of the EEA agreements, and that we have nothing to say. Of course it's not. And that's why I think it's both sides. We need to talk about the deal and what it gives us. But we also need to remember to bear responsibility and always to care fully for our interests. Hv. paritaprevir My friend Andersen spoke before me and expressed her opinion that she thought it was a poem that the Paris Convention and our goals in it had somehow been mixed into the EEA Convention. I haven't fully agreed with her on that subject, and maybe there's an update on how to win it. However, I'd like to say in that subject -- the report speaks of the green covenant and how the EEA has been used in this relationship with the European Union -- that I think we can be overexcited when it comes to this series. In fact, I'd like to mean that climate is the class that sees what's most important to us here on the land as well as anywhere else. I think the only way to succeed is by working together, as was done to form with the Paris Convention, and this is really the only way to win this war. Although we need to do better, we too have done well over the years, and I also think that we have so many opportunities, we have a good story to tell, and so much to communicate to other nations at the time. The modern development of green energy is high in this country, and we've encouraged it even more, to form with taxable motivations, a bill that we agreed on here not long ago, and there I feel our emphasis should be, namely. research, science, and innovation, especially on climate issues. Finally, I just want to say that the EEA deal is, of course, our biggest and most important business deal. The fact that this is a normal year - long trip - it can't be said that it just recently - people being able to cross borders and capitals and goods and other things may be the greatest option of this deal. However, there are other programs that have offered us access. Then, in particular, I'd like to mention study plans, such as Horizon Europe, Erasmus, and others of great importance. I think the only way for Europe to try to regain the power Europe should have when it comes to innovation, research, and science is to work together and bring scientists from different countries. That's why I think it's very important to think of these plans and our work there, and it's very interesting to see how successful Icelandic scientists have been in getting into this fund. Of course, there is money and it is possible to look at it so that we have got more money from the fund than we have put in it. But that is not the big thing. Of course, the big issue is what comes out of this work. It is real wealth that we get out of it. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. I thank you for this discussion and encourage us to continue speaking for and speak with the EEA agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u70	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Congress members for their participation in this discussion. It is very important that members of Congress participate in this discussion, and I think that it has proved their value to have a specific report on these matters. I am also happy with the harmony shown here regarding the importance of upholding our interests in this cooperation. I like it when senators allow themselves, and they should, to look at this critical view. We're supposed to do it all the time. All human works are not above criticism. We're supposed to think about things, and I thought it was a good idea. Senators do it quite well here. I'm just gonna go to some of the shows that came up. It was here, for example. discussed why Iceland was involved in joint measures between Norway and the EU on climate change. The rationale is that without integrated European countries, Iceland would have to produce new independent targets at the scene of the Paris Convention, which covered total emissions, including major industry, and would have to negotiate some special solutions for major industry in Iceland, with the greatest increase in emissions and the greatest uncertainty of future emissions. In the present system, emissions are responsible for the responsibility of the enterprises and the European Union as a whole, under the EU disposal system, but not directly the responsibility of the Icelandic government. This is all under two solid solutions. Of course, if you think there are other ways to go that would be better for Iceland, you should just take a look at it and talk about it, but this is the key because this road is gone. A respectable president. I am very pleased to hear the agreement on the score of 35. I am especially glad that we have come to the point where they are. Congress members here are absolutely aware that the EU is a customs alliance, since it has not been in this room, and aware that if we walk in the European Union, we will cancel our freedom of business. However, during my discussion, I have been so upset by some because of my lack of new business freedom as a foreign minister. And now I'm not complaining about it, I generally felt that I was positive in this discussion and thank you for it, I feel that all the discussions are perplexing, and even if you don't agree with everyone. Councilmen speaking. But just as it is said, the scene of EFTA with Indonesia and Ecuador has been written and the deal with Turkey, three EFTA contracts have been held, with Indonesia, Ecuador, Guatemala, and the EFTA and Mercosur, a customs alliance of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay, is expected to be signed. That's pretty much. I think we can be happy that we have achieved this success. Iceland's free trade agreements cover 74 states and territories, with less than 3.2 billion people, or more than one third of mankind. So we have both by ourselves and also by means of the EFTA Free Trade Association, our new freedom of business, and, of course, by making good decisions when it comes to customs. Then I'm referring to one-sided toll dams that make us, e.g. 90% of tax freedom, but if we entered the European Union it would be 27%. I thank you again. Councilmen for a good and objective discussion that I missed. But there's only one thing, a respectable president. It's on page 8. 22 is a guarantee of the internal insurance system. There I have held high the emphasis and told it in this room and in all the meetings I've been in -- we can only say in Europe, both at meetings with the EU, and also with the EFTA - that I will never agree that the state responsibility will be taken up through the cores of the EEA Convention. I will never agree that the state of responsibility for banks will be recorded in Iceland through the EEA Convention. This section is a special chapter because we want to, and we really need to be on guard so that this will not happen. That's why I'd like to mention it at the end, so it's well documented in Congress that it's been my position, and it's gonna be my attitude that it would be reckless to go along with state responsibility on the inside. I don't have to explain it to anyone who lives in Iceland, and I remember a time when we lived here during the financial collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u71	A respectable president. The report I have given to the General Assembly on Foreign and International Affairs is the last of the material in the current terms of terms. This period of time has been marked by abduction in both Icelandic and international society, especially during recent years of unprecedented pandemic. Foreign service has adapted well to these changed times, both for special issues but also for business and organization. I am proud of the success we have achieved in supporting Icelandic employment and in caring for the interests of our citizens. In the pandemic, we have endeavored to adapt our activities to the changing circumstances and to meet the needs of Icelandic companies and citizens. The light in this regard, as in all the streets since the establishment of foreign service in April 1940, has been protecting the interests of the country and the nation in a foreign field. Change of priorities and changes made at the beginning of the ideal period have made a big difference as to how successful it has been in the trials soon to come. Iceland's Foreign Service has served and will continue to play an important role in helping the nation. We make our own good fortunes, and no one watches our interests if we don't do it ourselves. A respectable president. Increased emphasis on northern issues has been a red thread in Icelandic foreign policy during the last eight years. First of all, Iceland has been leading the Arctic Council for the past two years. A circuit meeting that will be held in Reykjavík later in the month marks its end, while it is held during the 25th anniversary of the Arctic Council. According to Iceland's lead plan, emphasis has been placed on three main areas; oceans, climate, and renewable energy, and people and communities in the north, as well as on strengthening the council. Although the epidemic has taken a stand, Iceland's executive plan has been successful. It is hoped that at the Ministerial Conference the Ministers will agree to the results of projects carried out in Iceland's Presidency and the Council's Work Programme for the upcoming Russian Presidency. According to the Government Treaty, the business of the north comes first in Icelandic foreign policy, and it has to do with Iceland's interests in many ways. A trajectory of Arctic policy is a 2011 synoptic resolution which has resulted in significant developments in northern affairs, including the late 1980's. Based on climate change impacts. The international interest in the region has increased considerably, especially as a result of a streamlining approach and a potential for resource use. We also see certain changes in the security environment. In view of this, and in view of the fact that Iceland is the head of the Arctic Council, it was time to make a decision to reevaluate the Arctic policy. So I appointed a Senate committee, led by a drive. paritaprevir The Brazilians of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, represented by all members of the council, assigned her to discuss the affairs of the north from a wide perspective. In March and on the basis of them, I have proposed a judicial proposal for a new Arctic policy. According to it, a new Arctic policy must be based on emphasis factors that include: to international cooperation on the affairs of the region, to address the negative impacts of climate change, the welfare of north-landers and the use of economic instruments, to name just a few. The proposals aim to ensure Iceland's interests in a broad sense through sustainable development and peaceful cooperation. As a sign of increased emphasis on our northern environment, there are proposals for increased cooperation between Iceland and Greenland, which can be found in the recent Greenland Commission report I ordered in April 2019. The 99 suggestions are on the possibility of increased cooperation between government, rural society, institutions, private sector, and free partnerships. Gives the committee even. In order for Greenland and Iceland to make a future framework for cooperation and to create a conquistador proposal at the spring Summit that describes the will and aims of Iceland for increased cooperation. This proposal has already been submitted and is awaiting the release of the council. Then there is the Norwegian cooperation once as one of the cornerstones of Icelandic foreign policy, and it can be reasoned that the importance of cooperation has increased in recent years and years. The countries have increasingly adopted issues such as climate, security, and foreign political issues. You can, for example. ... andthe report of former Minister Bjarnason on the depth of Norwegian cooperation in the area of State and Security that came out in my last year. A respectable president. Iceland joins Western democracies who want to protect human rights and democratic values on which the international system is built. Sadly, recent years have shown that it is necessary to take firm measures to cope with the negative trends that have been experienced in many human rights and freedoms, often in the shelter of a pandemic, and to attack fundamental aspects of the worldwide and international law built up since the end of World War II. During the election season, successful work of Iceland on the scene of the United Nations Human Rights Council has brought world attention. I myself have stressed that I would be attending the conference week of the Council's Minister in order to encourage Member States to follow the lead. Iceland currently gives a group on the rights position in Iran, and continued in Iceland will follow up on the issues we took any initiative in the council, i.e. The Philippines and Saudi Arabia. Similarly, in cooperation with the states of the North and the United States, we have been actively following a failed election in Belarus, a solution to the government of Navalní, Russia, and the Chinese government in human rights. Iceland has also acted on the media freedom of civil rights and has always used the rights of gay people, gender equality and rights of the child in international cooperation. These factors weigh heavily in all the development of Iceland and will continue to play a role in the leadership entrusted to us in the field of the European Council and other international institutions. It will not be said too often that a small country like Iceland depends largely on the respect of international law and on the continuation of international agreements for the values we love most. To increase the effectiveness of Iceland within the international organisations, the increase in the number of Icelandic workers in their field has been stressed. The following will be published by three international institutions and improved work ethics and support for local experts seeking to operate in these fields. A respectable president. I have stressed that one of the main projects of the government in the time of the crown virus is to limit the effects of the pandemic as much as possible for the public and the economy and to search for opportunities for land and nation. In the spring of 2020, I appointed a team of workmen to shape suggestions on how foreign service could better support the work environment under these circumstances. Based on a report by the field service group, special business activities were set up in October 2020. Based on the successful role model of civil service, it provides an example of how the management board can adapt to changing circumstances for the benefit of Icelandic companies and individuals. If there is a serious business problem requiring government access, workers in foreign service can be contacted at any time of the year. Another example of how protection has been turned into a parish is World Square, set up in cooperation with the Ministry of State and Iceland, and officially set up in Mar. A local agency oversees the operation of the World Square but in its backland country there are experts in the State Department of Employment and Development Cooperation, Business Services, the EEA Building Fund, as well as other international cooperation funds to which Icelandic companies have access. The square of the world is to bridge the gap between commercial and government. Thus it is the role of providing information to Icelandic companies on the potential for supporting job development projects in developing countries and beyond. In addition, the UN's work programme for working on a global target is at an all - time high. The sea strengthens the activities of Icelandic companies in developing countries, which promote global prosperity at 8, the quality of employment and sustainable economic growth. The fund emphasizes that the presence of a private member of the developing community is not only desirable but essential for such cooperation to produce the desired results. A respectable president. The only way out of current trials due to Covid-19 is by increasing the quality of value and the increased export of valuables. For a country that has everything to do with successful foreign trade, it is important to provide Icelandic companies with the best commercial agreements and as a means of making access to international markets. By 2020, about half a century had passed since EFTA and 60 years since the establishment of the Agency. The EFTA party is one of the basics of the foreign trade policy and has played an important role in ensuring the prosperity of this country. In its power, Iceland has made 29 contracts with 40 countries and areas. By standing outside the European Union, Iceland enjoys freedom of business and can become its own free trade agreements, either on its own or in partnership with other countries. Thus Iceland was the first European country to sign free trade agreements with China, and Iceland has now made free trade treaties with 74 countries, all of which number 2.9 billion, or more than one third of mankind. The United States remains the largest single business country in Iceland, whether it is viewed as a trade and service trade or a direct investment in Iceland. I have given special attention to developing a business relationship of the countries, including the U.S. in agreement with the U.S. State Department of State and the office of the representative of the President of the United States. The global epidemic has certainly taken into account, but recently economic and commercial issues between the EU have been formally discussed on a broad scale with the aim of preparing the soil for possible business talks in the near future. Following the United States, Britain is the second most important business country in Iceland. The temporary non-employment agreement of Iceland and Norway with Britain, following an EU discharge, went into effect on January 1, 2021. Its primary objective is to maintain the current product trade in the Member States on the basis of the EEA Convention and other related business agreements. The agreements are intended to bridge the gap until a new global vacation agreement between the states is reached. EFTA negotiations are being prepared to complete in the EEA for the free trade agreement as soon as possible. Clearly, a future contract with Britain is very important to exporting goods, so it is important that effective efforts be made. A respectable president. Iceland's national security policy is the kind of guide they're working on to protect and security. It shows that the core reason for policy management is Iceland's position as a small island nation that has neither authority nor will to control its military, secure and active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. The Hornstones of Iceland's defenses are part of the Atlantic Community, where Iceland was a group of 12 founders in 1949, and a defence deal with the United States, but yesterday 70 years had passed since his signing. Iceland is not a product of global security changes in recent years. It is characterised by an increase in instability and unpredictableness and tension in international cooperation. In this situation Iceland's defense infrastructure has increased its impact on the state of the North Atlantic. In addition to global threats in the environment of the environment of the Western countries, there is increasing security and consultations on how to deal with changing situations. Iceland's response to the changed security environment includes in ensuring the equipment and hostilities of the U.S. and other member countries of the Atlantic Union, which are available in the area of safety, but also in addition to being involved in cooperation projects. This includes more comprehensive international consultations in a group of coalitions and cooperation countries and measures for multi-country issues. The Ministry of State has established a new division on this subject. This emphasise the construction of the defenses and maintenance of infrastructure as part of the national security and security obligations of Iceland. With stronger infrastructure and defenses, ability to react and resistance, as well as clear policy, Iceland will be equipped to deal with the short-term threat of multi-country problems. The contribution of Iceland to the scene of the Atlantic Community and the two- sided defense team to the United States is primarily involved in air space monitoring, air space monitoring, and training of the Community and of the Union, hosting countries and in ensuring the safe operating of defense workers and equipment. Iceland operates its operations and maintains its 140 defence workers, which can be found in designated security areas. The maintenance and management of defense workers and equipment is a fundamental factor in Iceland's national security policy that clearly guarantees that the country is in the hands of defences, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces in security and protection and to meet Iceland's international commitments. This loss has several essential maintenance and improvement projects in the safety area. These projects are largely lost by the Atlantic Alliance and by the United States. A respectable president. The last loss has been both challenging and difficult, while its endurance and strength have been demonstrated. I am proud of the success of foreign services in supporting Icelandic employment and in caring for the interests of the citizens in such uncertainty times. Now that we see the light at the end of the tunnel, Iceland has a strong foundation in the international community. The future is bright.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u72	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Foreign Minister for a comprehensive discourse and a report on foreign and international matters and, indeed, a number of matters to be taken that might be asked or discussed. I'd like to start by bringing the criticism that I think the section on Security and Defense is extremely narrow. I don't think he's in the same shape as Iceland's development team, which is much wider than what has to do with the Atlantic Alliance and the protective agreements we made in the left green made a warning of our time in national security policy. The report explains much earlier how Iceland wants to highlight a safer and better world, such as by ensuring human rights, peace, women's freedom, the elimination of poverty, and so forth. So I think this section is a little tight. But okay. However, it contains only a review of the NPT contract and a review of it. I've been speaking about Iceland as a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. But I'd like to ask, because the British have now been creating a reinvigoration of their Trident nuclear submarines, thus violating the NPT deal, which, however, is spoken of here as the way I hear the most. Minister wants to go, how's the highest? A minister in his field responds to this grave situation in which one of our neighbors is expanding his nuclear fleet and violating this important disarmament agreement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator refers to the tightness of the chapter. It refers to much of the cooperation we are in. On one hand, we are in the Atlantic Community and with a two - sided defense agreement with the United States. It is a cornerstone of our defense, making it possible for us to be an armyless nation. It's interesting, a respectable president, because there is a general agreement in the North countries, that although Finland and Sweden are not in the Atlantic alliance, they are in a very close partnership and have close cooperation with the Atlantic Community and politics in Norway, such as the United States of America. which does not want to be in the Atlantic Community stress the need for significant growth in the Norwegian army. When it comes to making deals, we have stressed it and will continue to emphasize that the actions are treaties and that they are respected. The problem, however, is that it has not worked out completely. That is the problem. If we take the big movie, luckily, it has become a great disarmament, but it has been mutual since the Cold War and has been enormous. Now, though, we are seeing a flash of air and have seen it for some time. That's why these contracts are not at the place we'd like. But our stand is very clear. We stress that the types are disarmament agreements and that they are organized for disarmament, but this is done in a mutual way, that these contracts are handled. But we do know that if one person does not do so, he will be inclined to say, as it were, that he will be forced to put more emphasis on what he does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u74	Mr. President. Only that the chapter is tight. Yes, the largest safety threat the world faces today is global climate change and health crisis as a result of a pandemic, and then there are the natural disasters in our country, and we understand their seriousness and how they can be on a global scale, and that is what I mean, these matters will not be handled by military or military force. I'm just going to, because the time is short, to celebrate what a minister says about everyone having to agree with contracts and sharpening him on the job of talking to the British and getting them to change their course. I'd like to close, because time is over, how are we going to pursue peace-enforced airspace for nuclear vehicles, as defined in national security policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u75	A respectable president. I don't know how to put this in any other way, but as I mentioned earlier, we speak for it and give particular attention to the fact that the Arctics, e.g. will continue to be a low-voltage area and that the increased traffic rate will not be a threat to what we've had so far. But when we're talking about these things, we know that it is, for example, that it is. great traffic of the submarines here, which has made our alliances have greatly increased in submarine search and so on. It's not because they have nothing else to do with their money but to send expensive equipment here to monitor it. This is the result of the increase in tension and combat and began after 2014 after the illegal incorporation of the Monsters as we know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance, who wanted to establish only the maintenance of defenses, especially at the Cheflavor airport and the old defensive zone, and our commitments in that regard. I couldn't find any discussion about this in the report, maybe the highest. If so, a minister can correct matters. I miss a bit of not only seeing it over because in many places it is time for the maintenance of these defenses that we have committed to our performance and is part of our contribution to the national defence agreement and to our defence agreement with the United States and NATO. I wanted to ask specifically about one project that I know is ready for action, what the government's position on this matter is. That's a project that goes up to about $13 billion and interested, at least for the U.S. government, to build at Keflavík Airport, in the defensive zone. There is a warehouse and several buildings related to it. This project is called in English, by permission of President Deployable Airbase System, or DABS. That would give, I understand, 600 jobs at construction time and about More than 50 permanent jobs for the Icelanders. This refers, not to any presence of the U.S. Army, but to a situation that would then be prepared for use if necessary. I understand it's all set up, but the Icelandic government's giving green light to this case. If the highest. A minister of foreign affairs could review this and inform us about the situation on the part of the government of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There is nothing available in the Icelandic government for maintenance projects in the area of the defense. True, this is on page 83◯84. Like what? A senator knows that they have done more than we have seen for decades. The projects that have been completed in my time or that are currently going on are over 20 billion. But there is no question that the government is holding back some maintenance work. It's simply not right. This is well traced to page 84, the most outstanding maintenance and renovation projects etc. Please refer to the change and reform of air cover 831 at the security site of the Keflavík Airport. It is estimated that improvements will be completed by the end of 2021. Building washing stations for aircraft is on the move, planning to complete the middle of a year. The maintenance and restoration of runways, airports, highways, and light systems have been established at the inside and outside of the safety zone at Keflavour Airport. Work is being started on the expansion and construction of airloads for airplanes carrying dangerous cargo and for temporary containers. These projects are largely lost by the Atlantic Alliance and by the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u78	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A minister has confirmed that the Icelandic government does not prevent normal maintenance and implementation in the area of defense and the commitments we have applied. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister here in the latter, answer very quickly regarding double tax agreements. Now we have made 45 contracts, says the report on page 68, but compared with our neighboring countries, these are very few treaties. Denmark has 76 contracts, I understand, Norway 87, The Netherlands 95 and Britain 126. I'd say this wasn't too good on the part of Iceland because it's very important. There is a bad situation for the Icelandic economy and business life if we do not have double tax agreements with certain companies. As a result, the environment of the Icelandic company is inconspicuous, and this will damage the competitiveness of the company. So I just want to ask the highest. Minister: What causes our lack of success in making double tax contracts compared with those countries I mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I agree with what. A senator that it is possible to do better when it comes to double-folding agreements. That is why we have stressed it, and we did it following the report. This year, for the first time in a report, march! Like a snooze. A senator knows, where all of Iceland's business agreements were taken, and including the two-fold tax agreements, which is a work-work plan. But we have, me and the highest. Secretary of finance, put forth special work to make sure that we speed it up and do better because we can and should do better. This has not been done before, of course, in such programs and preparations. The report refers to who is being discussed. But you're right about what you're doing. A senator says we should do better, and we're going to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u80	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Foreign Minister for your history. I'm going to ask about Iceland's dealings with two countries last year. On the one hand, Palestine. I see that in 2020, 863 million for humanitarian work went into a wide sense, and I'd like to know how much of that amount goes to Palestine, the refugee aid UNRA, and whether and how Iceland has used its own free trade agreement with Palestine in times we've experienced since our last discussion of foreign policy. The other country I'd like to ask about last year is Russia because I just have to admit, Mr. President, that I don't fully understand what our relationship with Russia is. In 2014, there was a turning point in the safety of the Commission when Russia was incorporated by the Crimea and they have become increasingly unpredictable when it comes to security and protection and have increased their military activities. We have participated in business pressure in the context of the European Union. Russian government still bans the import of Icelandic fish, and national officials refused to go to the Russian World Championship for soccer in order to watch the U.S. team's conduct. Still, there's some extremely pleasant relationship going on. The Icelandic-Russian Council of Business has been established, and there are various forms of communication, which you would expect would not be in complete relation to the rest. So I want to know, "How is this really a relationship? What is this two - sided relationship between Iceland and Russia really like? And then there's my first question about Palestine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u81	Thank you. A senator for the queries. The first thing about Palestine, when it comes to vacation contracts, is no matter what state they are made of, in themselves it is not government that uses them, but business. I'll admit, more dignified President, that I haven't seen numbers on business and whether they've increased in connection with the contract. But I think I'm right about that when it comes to UNRA, it's about 25 million in the nuclear capacity and two places, about 60 million, but that's all right. For Russia, there is no doubt that we have been involved with other Western countries in protesting Russia's actions. But it's no secret that at the same time, we've done some things to increase the trade between countries. When I visited Moscow, at the invitation of Sergeis Lavrov, Russian minister of State, I was accompanied by a business delegation and, in fact, a business committee. We set up the Icelandic-Russian Council of Business and business has increased between Iceland and Russia. We're very close with Russia in the North Pole. It was recommended that we be, not taking for granted, the hard security issues and other issues that are in other parts of the Arctic states but that we focus primarily on Arctic issues. This is entirely in accordance with what we see in countries involved in this collective action. You're right next door. A senator that they've imposed a business ban on us, on important products from us, and I've pushed on them to be reasonable because we're very hard to deal with, but we haven't had that prospect so far worked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u82	Thank you very much. A minister for the counter-relevanted him to learn more about the implementation of the free trade agreement because I've asked the highest possible question. Secretary of state on the free trade deal with Palestine. 60 million out of 863 million in humanitarian work I must confess, Mr. President, I am not impressed by the fact that this is such a key country in our humanitarian work at the time of our lives. For Russia, I'd like to encourage the highest power. Ministers to do better when it comes to securing Iceland's interests as long as this vast network of communications takes place and particularly because of the above recommendations. A minister has dropped into a council and just around the turn of nuclear submarines suspected to be in the north. In the latter answer, I'd like to say that Iceland, according to the report, has given half a billion of the COVA Project that's great, that's fine and completely in harmony with our international moral obligations. I would like to know how the relations, contracts and interests of the EU or other countries have been negotiated in the Covid epidemic at the time of the drop-off and the contracts of vaccines. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The Prime Minister in the press spoke of the Sputnik excuse, Mr. President, I'm just going to finish this question - the Russian who has not received the green light from the European Medicines Agency. [[The president calls.]] But I have to admit that I'm very curious to know exactly what part the State Department of State is when it comes to our international interests in reporting vaccines and contracts. It would be fascinating to hear it from the highest level. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u83	A respectable president. When it comes to the vaccines and to buy them, there is no question that they are in the health care department's custody. However, we do all we can when looking for help. The embassies are e.g. not only for the Ministry of State, they're for all other agencies as well and, of course, for the Icelanders in general. But in general, we may have been most prominently at the European Union's Regulation, and, fortunately, it has been changed yesterday. As for COVAx and the developing world, at the beginning of an epidemic, we immediately emphasized in our developing effort to emphasize that it would be aimed at helping countries that are exposed to the virus, like all of us. [[The president calls.]] It's such a short version of this. I could talk a long time about developing cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u84	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this report, which is a brilliant overview of the State Department's operations. It's also nice to see that these reports always develop. Now there's a lot of footage, and it's good to understand how to divide projects from emissaries or embassies, etc. So it's all a fine piece. Of course, as I said, the report is primarily an overview of what has been going on in foreign and international affairs, less on future mice. In fact, we should soon sit down, politicians in Iceland, and ask ourselves, " Do I have to discuss a common future state policy for Iceland? ' We'll discuss various problems here, but who will be our total convention for the next few decades? I'll say it again, for the next few decades. I'm still going to add one thing, Mr. President, it may even be a bit hard to talk about decades because the world is changing so quickly. At least I think it's good for us to sit down, cross-politic, and try to peer into the crystal ball how the world is going to develop and where we need to use our energy abroad. Maybe I'll come back to that later when I go through the report. In the beginning, I would like to mention that a minister rightly declared that there had been some adjustments in his ministry. Of course, there are differing opinions about what is only natural, whether it is a new law that was approved here or a home emissary, etc. It is only natural for humans to exchange opinions on such matters. But I think foreign service is still one of our most important agents, if you can put it that way. This is a small service compared to that of all others. Someone may say that a small amount of service, in fact, renders much service so that I take it out, following a small country. But I don't agree with that. I think a country like Iceland, and I've said it before, needs a bigger foreign service than today to cope with the challenges ahead and actually come to us every day. Also to develop our business and partnerships around the world, because all of this changes. What was far away a few years ago is very close to us today. Because there are new dangers, new threats, new opportunities, we should consider over a longer period of time what our policy is to be exactly. I have also served as a spokesman for the need to expand my ministry. For the past few years, I'd have wanted to see that more money was put on the foreign service to promote the operation. On the contrary, the brakes have been stepped on, at least to mention saving and staging. I think that's the wrong message at the time we live today. But to the report. Naturally, the issues of foreign affairs in the history of this government over the past few years, such as the Norwegian teamwork and development teamwork, are being considered, and the following are better considered. Of course, safety challenges are also addressed. Granted, there are some things that need to be kept in mind, especially when we see these new threats, so to speak, threats to us through communication and the like. It is also the threat mentioned in the report that nations are actually going to war but that they are using, not traditional soldiers, but mercenaries or some kind of tenants who are also new, where unmarked soldiers even invade and take land. On page 18. In 42 C.E., the Institute of Knowledge for Development is discussed, but there have been significant changes in the environment of evolutionary cooperation during the past few years after the United Nations University laid certain demands on our fine schools. When I failed, I feel that I did well even though I had to admit that at first I had doubts that the way I was going was the right way. I'll be happy to admit that I think I was wrong there. Looks like it's going fine. Developing cooperation is an enormous part of our foreign expenses for Icelanders. If we take this so - called two - side development team and then our commitments, multinational and so on, then half of the expenses are in them. - When you're going to talk calmly, time goes still faster. On page 18. 64 is well considered the vacation business organization and the free trade agreements we have made. According to this table, during the past year, two treaties, the Philippines and Ecuador, had already been concluded with Georgia and other countries. Of course, important contracts in the pipes, such as the so-called Mercosur Community in South America, are important, which I think is important to complete, and of course the agreement mentioned in the case of Indonesia. But we have to wonder, too, chief. Mr. President, whether we might contribute even more importance to the presence or to some sort of work of foreign service in these faraway countries, in Asia and South America, or to look forward in the future to whether we need to open more embassies or embassies to do business and promote our views when it comes to various international issues, and, of course, the civil service that is extremely important and powerful at the Ministry of State, such as all departments and institutions there. I'm not going to come in much on NATO, I think it's going to be done below. It is very important for us to stick to our commitments there. I just mentioned a few new threats. There's a lot of threats here, and I'm happy about that. Civil service is important and has undergone considerable pressure in recent years. I'm gonna go for a minute, Mr. President--no, Madam President, excuse me, I need to make a statement in a speech chair when there's a change of president, this isn't going to work. - Here's a summary of our total expenses for foreign affairs and foreign business, very well-proved. On page 18. 102 is exactly what I discussed earlier, our development team, which is 33%, and our contractual contribution for 17%'s multinational cooperation. That's almost half the expenses. Of course, we should continue to strengthen development cooperation and to do even more when it is due. At the same time, we should try to expand the other half of this cake. When it comes to security and defense, we need to stick to what we're dealing with, and we're supposed to focus more and more on opening up business. Then we may need to expand the blue part of the cake, which is the management manager, for of course we need to be able to do the work. I want to draw attention to the fact that there's a considerable need to be added. There's one question I'd like to leave here, just because she's been really interested in me for a while and I'm glad that she's been opening in Strassburg again. Then we must wonder, when our leadership in the Council of Europe ends, whether it will be read again or if we will continue to care for it as we should. This is an important part of our work, i.e. to do the work that goes by the Council of Europe. Finally, I just want to thank you for this report. That's a good overview. But what we have to do in the near future, Icelandic politicians, is to consider an even deeper future, foreign policy. Several publications have been produced that are helpful. I think, however, that it needs to go deeper into this and try to get some kind of common view of foreign policy for Iceland. But I thank the Minister for moving the report and the staff for winning it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u85	Madam President. We are truly living in unusual times, and we have done so in recent years. Of course, this is especially true of all international and international cooperation. I would like to start by thanking the staff of the State Department for their hard work and especially for civil service during a pandemic, where they have worked hard to help Icelandic citizens at this time. It has certainly been challenging, strange, and once unknown international times. Indeed, response to a pandemic has been a major project for most countries in recent years, including foreign service and foreign advisers for all countries. The worldwide epidemic has also shown us white people that international cooperation and cooperation are of utmost importance when we face similar situations and have had to contend with recent years. I must say, Madam President, this has done many good things in a narrow setting. I'd like to mention the top trade watch there. A foreign and development co-operation team established support for foreign services in exports and occupations following the pandemic. Also, I would like to include the cooperation of the State Department and Iceland Office, World Square, which shared information to Icelandic companies on possible development projects in developing countries and beyond. Similarly, the UN's global target of employment as reported in the report is in full swing. This is good, and it is a fine sign that the foreign service has also watched other things and aspects of national cooperation in ways other than the radicals we've been in over the past few years. But there have been other factors that have been large in the state and foreign affairs here at home for a recent year. It is the work of the Council of Arctic and a new Arctic policy, a extensive Greenland report. We have also stepped forward in a clearer way than before, in the Arctic and Northern regions, which are becoming increasingly international and increasingly important, particularly in regard to climate change, which will mean major changes in the North seas and in the Arctic seas, and when it comes to shipping routes and cooperation with the Arctic nations. That's good, and it's a good thing for the Icelandic State Department and the highest. Secretary of State is working here to have the U.S. Secretary of State arrive this month. It will be very exciting to see what comes out of that meeting in Iceland. I expect a new tone there will be struck by Iceland's new government of the United States. Time may not be as much as you would like, but I wanted to draw attention to two aspects of international foreign affairs. It is the climate that is becoming increasingly extensive and more prominent in all international politics because it actually relates to virtually every aspect of human life. In this world, we face great challenges when it comes to the climate change that we need to give in. We need to connect climate and climate change with all our systems, into all our work. Iceland is now heading for a 55% decline for the year 2030 compared to 1990 and is heading for a non-carbonization for the year 2040. This needs to be done faster, more radically, more conclusively than that, because the next pandemic and the next major global project has already begun, and this is climate change. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of foreign affairs to impress the material for the remainder of the terms. I remind myself in the context of my synopsis of a green foreign policy based on what the Northern Nations have been doing, especially the Danish government, who have shown tremendous ambition and vision in green foreign policy, but also Finnar and Sweden. Sweden has had very good experience in dating feminist foreign policy, which we can also adopt in our arms, i.e. building our focus on internationally, more clearly, when it comes to equality. It is involved in a special development team. I'm only going to link the climate to developing cooperation because there is a clear connection between it, with people's issues fleeing, and especially with international and international cooperation when it comes to health matters. Because when we begin to publish something in the pandemic, when vaccinated individuals around the world are growing, hopefully, it is incredibly important to be alert that, most likely, evolutionary cooperation will be reinvented, with greater emphasis on health and constant access to everyone to good health care, drugs, and cooperation in that area. That's where we're in good business. When it comes to our development projects in Africa and elsewhere, we have an amazing reputation. It's good, and they need to be used to develop. I think the highest, too. Secretary of State, with her experience in the Ministry of Health, must be of great interest in the aspect of developing cooperation, to expand developing cooperation more in that direction. When it comes to climate and their development, they relate closely to humanitarian matters, human rights, and migration. We can also see that 75 million people are now fleeing, whether within their own land or beyond their own citizens. This is the highest number we've ever seen in this relationship, Madam President, when it comes to refugees. These numbers are going to rise rapidly because, following climate change, drought, famine, and lack of water, this will be increasingly a more urgent task that we need to set out and control the climate when it comes to developing cooperation and to provide resources for projects that are involved in empowering developing countries to control the consequences of climate change. We saw this in the countries around the Sahara. There are vast numbers of people on the move. There we also see war on natural resources, which will in time have terrible effects. Human rights. I'm incredibly proud of Iceland's being on the United Nations Human Rights Council, and I feel that Icelandic governments have been successful and Iceland is out of control. I'm happy with our emphasis there, and I want to encourage us to celebrate because we are still on committees of the United Nations Human Rights Council. There we have the opportunity to be heard because, as we know, it is not important internationally whether nations are large or not but what message we are sending. Human rights are getting ever bigger when it comes to international cooperation and on the scene. We've been seeing an ever greater tendency to go to the so-called global formulation of a solution. That is why it is also of utmost importance to have seen government change, the change in the United States. So I'm excited to see further access to the administrative exchange when it comes to the relations of the United States and Iceland and to expect much of the highest. Secretary of State and the Icelandic government when it comes to dealing with the U.S. government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u86	Madam President. But I'm not going to be a very busy people in northern affairs. I'm going to come to them a little bit, but I'm going to discuss them much more on human rights and refer them to the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights that will be as old as I am. I mean, it's absolute. This has sometimes led to hope, and people have questioned it. What interests me is that she is not a business of the state, i.e. Human rights are not domestic, nor are they the causes involved. For proof, of course, there is reality, and there is a court of rights, and this is the maintenance of communities, many even, to one community. Then the eyes of the world are upon nations that violate human rights or governments that violate human rights. So it would really be different if people in one country could not trust men in another country, and humanity would depend on a border, which is, of course, a different idea. Little things are more weighty than their size. I believe the North countries are an excellent example of that in human rights. It's true for us that human rights in our modern country have good things to do, so you just say it out loud. Then, in particular, I am considering the changes that have taken place in the past few decades. It was and, of course, has been failing in us like other nations, and we acknowledge it and work to reform it. I remind you of the human rights of children, disabled, queer people, equal to men and women. We have made significant progress in all these areas, but of course, it will be late. It can be said that on secular standards, even world standards, we are relatively good at all of this, and thus we make the most of what we say. We have the word that this is the way it is. Our work on human rights testifies to this fact. We are members of the European Convention of Human Rights and have participated in the European Parliament and have worked closely together with the European Parliament, the ESE, the European Security and Cooperation Agency. We have converted climate into evolutionary partnerships and have been serving in the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights, from 2018 to 2020, and will perform an attempt to get back in there 2025◯2027, to further participation, and to celebrate that experiment. That's what Iceland means. This was evident when we sat down in the Council of Human Rights. What we did and said about human rights in the Philippines had a point to say and, so I'll take another example, what we said and did about human rights in Saudi Arabia also had a lot to say. Our stand was noteworthy, and surely we should rejoice that we have been able to benefit in this way. But whether Iceland is inside or outside the Council of Human Rights, we let human rights be taken over and spoken everywhere. We could use a number of examples of things we might have to do or what we have already done. This is what we do here either by protesting or by participating in discussions and concerns. Of course, that can be a delicate matter in some times. Even bad blood is easy to pass on to those involved, and we need to take into account other groups, those who work in countries where human rights are violated, etc. But in that brain, the projects are enough. I would like to mention just a few countries: Turkey, Cyprus, where Turkish authorities are trying to prevent Cyprus and Cyprus from managing their affairs and even uniting Cyprus again. Kurda can be referred to in Turkey and the general opposition there. Under the Erdogans's direction, many have gone back, and there is good reason to apply themselves in this regard. In Iraq, of course, we know the Anfal campaign as the genocide of the Kurds of Saddamur Husseinn as we now have a contingency proposal to accept it. Syria, the war itself as well as the refugee stream, and most important, it is a special religious group that divides mainly in Syria. In China, we can name Xianjiang and Úígúri. There, criticism of the Chinese government is based on a variety of news and evidence, a violation of national rights that may exist and to address them. And we have, Icelanders. If we stick to China, we'll keep an eye on Hong Kong, too. In Russia, it's about freedom of politics and universal media freedom of thought. In this regard, we have many good relationships with governments and can follow through on criticism. In India, I keep in mind Modir's current prime minister's national policy and his class, where opponents are being silenced and ruled out. I'm going to end this list of Catalonias where the judgments and imprisonments of the apart are preposterous and in Europe, so you can now take it as an example of an area near us. There are, of course, other things that are thought - provoking and even protesting, but it is too much to count. But I would like to emphasize and encourage the minister of foreign affairs to continue the course that has been and to take care of these matters seriously. And whether we will succeed in being a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council again or not, you can turn to these countries that I have listed and found to be more real. Madam President. I promised to say a few words about northern affairs because of my being chairman of the Northern Parliamentary Committee. I can hardly give this unnamed report, which, in fact, I want to thank for the accuracy and accuracy, and the special print we received, which was very useful because it takes most of the factors and makes the passage easier. What I'd like to stress, since I'm not going to keep a long number here for the north, is that in this low-voltage area that we've managed to keep pretty good at, there's tension. That's not something you can share. Of course, it's on the scene of security and defense. I've tried to describe this position graphically and to call the description some kind of pong process or ping pong. There's a trade between performing and saying something. Well, it's actually... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... to build up manpowers and facilities that are somehow linked to defenses and warfare beyond what we can call search and rescue, beyond water support and above normal land control. There are two players, one side of NATO and Finland and Sweden, and then Russia, on the other. I want to state that there is also a history of increased military exercises. There is also the history of provocation, low - speeds, and so forth. They're also testing and testing new weapons. All eight states in the north feel this way, and I'm not going to do it anymore. But I'm going to encourage our initiative in bringing the party together outside the Arctic Council and the Northern Parliamentary Conference, step by step to the down of a military and security situation, or the insecurity situation as I would like to call it, and preparing some kind of code, behavioral rules in the area of security and defense that ensure peaceful living in the north. I don't have a question to the highest. Secretary of state, standing by here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u87	President. Thank you for your report. I'm going to start by saying it's a joy to see that a telecommunication is being done on a greater scale than ever before. Hopefully, this development will continue, and some policy may be established on a global scale, so there will be a small priority for what you can do in telecommunications and when it is necessary to arrive in the area. I think this has shown us that you can make all kinds of things through the so-called Internet. I stopped only a comment in the chapter on political relations with other countries. It says that Russia's human rights violations made it a little difficult for them to cooperate, and so it says, with the permission of a president: 'By a similar layer, doubts about the status of human rights in China have grown in contact with the Chinese government. I don't know if it's right to talk about it in the report, but I miss at least that there's no hard position on human rights violations against gay people; in Russia, China; and also in the United States. A report on November 21, 2020, says with the permission of a president: "Never before has there been a greater number of transaminators or homosexuals killed in the United States than this year, namely. 2020. The report refers to Human Rights Campign's annual report that speaks of violence against non - sexists as an epidemic of hate crimes. The use of force is driven by prejudice and phobia, fueled by the speech of those who do not like the extent of the challenge of rights. In addition, it was noted that last year, the government of Hingeng days broke off with the U.S. embassy, one of the largest sponsors of the joy march. I realize that much of this may have come from the time of Trumps's reign, he was naturally very opposed to increasing the rights of queer people and drawing back a lot of people's rights. Trump has left power, but his speech to queers has had a profound effect on American society and is still affecting legalization at the state level. Given the increase in hate crimes against gay people, I would think we should be alert to the position of gay human rights in the United States. In Russia, queer people have to live in fear, for example, where most of the Russians express themselves against homosexuality and homosexuality, for example, do not have the right to live in law and thus do not have the same rights and opposite sex. There is no law in Russia that forbids discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender, or gender. The same is true in China, where only nothing really protects queers from abusive speech. This is the rights that Iceland needs to be at the front of a category. We need to point them out and put pressure on them to take action in these lands. So is the report on ocean affairs. Well, they're certainly our minds, where Iceland is an island in the Atlantic. I hope that in discussions about it, the huge amount of plastic pollution resulting from the global fishing industry. It reminds me that about 90% of all the plastics in the ocean are caused by industrial activity, which does not include individuals. It is vital that the world's nations recognize this and have a clear policy to clean up plastics and prevent further distribution of oceans. The entire marine environment is subversive, and it is difficult to say that if we can't provide anything, we will endure good waters. This article discusses so - called multi-items and says, with the permission of a president: 'Cana to cope with Internet attacks is the custody of every state.' I wondered, " How and how will the United States be equipped to deal with this if there were a large network attack here, and no doubt there were some Internet attacks without the public knowing about it? ' I wondered if there is knowledge and understanding within the administration to create a future security policy and to cope with attacks if they arise. At least I think it's very important that we stay in this category. Most of the nation is online, we've done more things on the Internet than we did. This is also important regarding political debates, for under the multiborders, false news and information chaos are made to promote instability and undermine the trust of individual countries. We live in the reality that much of our communications and information are taking place on the Internet, and we all can put information on the Internet. The Cambridge Analytica case also opened our eyes to the possibility that governments can, in an alarming way, have a major impact on people's opinions and sources of information. It is my hope that the Ministry has learned some lesson from that case and has developed some kind of policy to reduce intelligence and ensure the protection of the freedom of expression at the same time. I'm glad the civil service and the procol office could do so well with the Covid incident. Yet, I missed seeing no more coverage of the processes and functions of this office when it comes to things other than Covid. It was found somewhere that there was an enormous number of Icelanders who were prospering abroad at any given time. For Covid and indeed for Covid, e.g. A large Icelandic community in Spain. I hope there are some procedures and policy on how to handle the situation when Icelanders need assistance in these countries, i.e. interpretation or other legal services - If you don't, I thank you for the discussion that's been here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u88	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for a very good business discussion today. The highest report. The minister of foreign affairs is introduced in a far - reaching way, and there are many ways to take it. It is different from the usual reports. Ministers where the world is still experiencing an epidemic caused by Covid-19. The pandemic may be said to have put communities all over the world, but now it is more successful to see the sun. There's a good walk in all over the country. The sun is shining, and summer is just around the corner. We do not fully know what the consequences of this epidemic will be, but we can assume that the economic consequences of it will be quite negative worldwide, especially to the economy and human health. Some companies have flourished in this environment, and long - term work and a slower lifestyle have been suitable for many. Fewer travel also follows fewer carbon tracks, so nature has benefited. The response to Covid has varied from country to country, for circumstances were unprecedented and complex but required prompt decision making at the same time. We may now see better that a year later the decisions were good and the worse. It is easy to look in the rearview mirror and criticize the actions of the time. But this is a task that we need to work out, and in the long run, we need to use the epidemic experience to develop closer cooperation with neighboring countries and other friends in the field of public security and community security. The cooperation of Norwegian countries in the pandemic has been good. Ministers have regularly met together, formally and informally, and civil services have been organized, especially at the beginning of an epidemic, in order to get people to their homes. The message of the Norwegian states and the emphasis has been on protecting human rights and democracy that are being taken in the time of the crown virus. Also, the message that the Norwegian countries consider it important to support the poorest countries in cooperation with international institutions and humanitarian organizations. It is a very important thing, and in the secretary's report, human rights, democracy, and cooperation with international institutions are well - known. According to this, the Northern Council has not left behind to encourage the Ministers of the Northern Lands to further cooperate and has criticized the Minister of the Northern countries for not responding strongly to the approved advice for community security, which was adopted in November 2019. The policy is broad and with regard to many different topic areas, including a reaction to epidemics and natural disasters to name something. Councils of the north count more intensive cooperation between ministers and institutions both possible and beneficial. The Presidency Commission urged the Northern Governments to form the proposals presented in the Community Security Policy and specifically suggestions that governments agree with measures to ensure an offer of important medicinal products and other medical equipment and highlight the need for updated normatic risk analysis and management programmes and suggests that an independent Norse DG should be established. This conversation was then taken directly to the Council of Northern Ireland and with Councils of the Northern Country in the autumn, where a number of telecommunications were successfully completed. The motto of the Norwegian team, together we are stronger, reflects the importance of our speaking one voice into the international community. We are already running the Norwegian embassy under the same roof in Berlin. I believe it would be very impressive for all of us here in the North countries to multiply that model, i.e. ... togo into the same roof with more Norwegian embassies, as they do in Berlin. This allows us to take more space and be more visible. Our voice needs to be heard as far as we can see from the fact that our baselines are under constant pressure, especially democracy, which we often take for granted on land, equality, human rights, state of justice, and, of course, we have to work together further on climate. I have been so lucky to visit the United Nations headquarters, where I have met with the presidents of the various UN institutions and also with the Icelandic representatives who serve there. To my delight, I was informed that informal cooperation between the Norse ambassadors was very much, and of course it is important. V.E.G. President. So I'll pull this together a little bit, i.e. the effects and consequences of Covid on international cooperation and economic resistance in nations, I firmly believe that this experience has taught us to further promote international cooperation, especially normic, in time of crisis as well as in other times. Our strength and practical solutions are in cooperation that is based on trust. The next chapter in the Minister's report is about the North, which is also a very important part of our foreign policy and a number of things to happen where Iceland's interests have a lot to do. The General has decided that there are 19 key factors involved in a Arctic policy. They'll bow even. to international cooperation on the affairs of the region, to address the negative impacts of climate change, the welfare of north-landers and the use of economic instruments, to name just a few. A Senate committee was established to review the Arctic policy and have returned it to the Generals. It's a treatment here. The proposals of the Committee aim to ensure the benefit of Iceland in a broad sense through sustainable development and peaceful cooperation. The General Assembly is still on the case, as I told you earlier. You're about to be in a hurry, so you're starting to get dirty, you know. President. The Minister's report also discusses the report of the Greenland Committee. It presents ideas as to how to expand the cooperation of Greenland and Iceland, but the countries already have a lot of common interests, such as in seabeds, air services, air traffic, travel services - I'm not going to list it all, but it's in the report - and, of course, health and so on. The countries also have increased international cooperation with the highest norset and Western cooperation, but also in the Arctic Council. I'll take my heart under a summary review of the Greenland report. It is important to introduce, as early as possible, the implementation of the Commission through the Dutch government, i.e. when the council has settled the matter which I hope to do in this spring. The greatest step towards a decision is for a national Framework Convention to describe the objectives of specific policy areas to agree with key stakeholders. V.E.G. President. I just want to come to the polygraphs. For a review of multi-item issues, please see the secretary's report and a summary of the measures and emphasis laid upon this issue of last year. It should be noted that a special department within the Ministry's Security and Defense Office was set up in November of last year. I'm glad that this department has been set up and that there has been a full need for such a department. I'm not going to go into exactly what the department is going to do, but that may say a little bit of itself. It focuses on Internet and foreign investments in infrastructure or companies, information collection, resistance and so forth. The debate on multi-item issues, such as Internet threats and security, is increasing in international cooperation. I heard why. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia also reviewed this point of the report. These multivariates are characterized by a number of means used to achieve certain political goals. The action focuses on bases, values, and cohesion of democracies by using systemal weaknesses. It's very developed, and we may not have been fully awake enough, but we're moving. The Internet attacks, false news, information chaos, economic pressure, investments in keywoods and businesses and the practicality of mercenaries are examples of short or long - term methods with the goal of promoting instability and undermineing trust in individual countries. There is an increasing debate over the Western seminary, and some countries have been exposed to such measures and at the scene of international institutions, especially the Atlantic Community and the European Union. So in this context, it is important to mention that the Allied Council agreed on the last funds to finance Iceland's involvement in the Eastern Atlantic Community on the Internet defense in Tallinn, Estonia. The other northern countries are already in the mansion, and there they have become a great source of knowledge about Internet protection and Internet security. Then the pandemic has revealed how much information, both correct and wrong, spreads rapidly and makes it more difficult to obtain reliable information. It can cause division in society. We can give an example of this when the shooting occurred at the Washington Assembly Hall not long ago. So this threat is real, and of course it has to do with national security and the basic defenses. I don't have any more time, chief. President. It's strange to cover such a large report in ten minutes, it's just not possible. But I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for a very careful report and a good discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u89	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking you for this report, as more have done here. It's well-worked, it's been ambitious in this report, and I'm especially happy for the good setting. It has become more graphic and makes it easier to read, so I thank you for this work and thank you for the historical background. Minister to her. This report contains a number of factors, but it is time - limiting. First, I want to enter what is discussed on page 5. 25 on political relations with individual countries. I'd like to come over for a little while to communicate with Russia. It says that while positive communication is emphasized, concern about Russia's military activities in the north and the subjugation of the Russian government in Western democratic countries cannot be avoided. I want to be the one to worry about this. But this is once so that in good relations, people can share some concerns, and that is what I think we should do in our dealings with the Russians. I would have liked to see that we would try to improve our communication with Russia and try to find a plan, for example. in starting full trade with Russia, which I think is important for our market. The Russians set up a post-traumatic embargo for the operation of Europe, which is certainly a serious matter. But the conversation with the Russians must also be recorded and used at such times. Let us not forget that the Russians were a great circle of our friends. Now communication, I think, some European states have become more and better with Russians than we have ever had with Russia. These include e.g. Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia, and even Italy, for example. I would've wanted us to try to improve Russia in some way, and maybe now this month, when the Northern Conference will be held. It's a very important and large meeting and I wish the minister of state luck with him and with his preparations. This is an important meeting where the Russians are accepting the lead in the Arctic Council. Next, I would like to step in with what is said on page 24. The 38 report on global development cooperation, and particularly what says that gender equality and authority are among the main factors involved in all developing and humanitarian efforts in Iceland. These are very noble and good goals, and we have become known for this, and they are good. It also says: "In accordance with Iceland's policies, there is much international work to be done on financial support and cooperation with three UN agencies, and then they are listed. V.E.G. Minister mentioned here, for example. at one point, there is some conflicting value to one United Nations organization. I think we should try everything we can to increase these levels. It's a direct financial support, but I think it would be good if we were to try to use our good people, such as. In the medical sector, for more work with these institutions than is done, there is a tremendous need. On page 18. 41 is about an institution called the Fund of Crowds, whose English abbreviation is UNPA. It's a very important institution. I have visited it and studied it, and it prepares a developing country for anticipated population growth, but it also deals with issues related to fertility and sex health, maternal protection, and birth help. Here is a very important project, including one. The organization has called attention and has tried to counteract the mutilation of women's genital organs, a task of enormous importance. I would have wished that we would try to be more supportive of this institution because it will be very little in comparison with other institutions, other institutions like UN Women and UNICEF, who are judgmental throughout the discussion. But this institution is doing really good things that I think we should try to be even more supportive of. I'm going to step next, p. 44 dealing with two - sided development cooperation. It speaks of cooperation between Iceland and Iceland, i.e. Malawi and Uganda. It's good. But I would have wanted us to take advantage of this opportunity when we're in this development partnership and to call attention to human rights violations in these countries, especially on so - called baby marriages, such as those in Malawi, where they have a lot of that, I think there are about 40% of girls who marry before they are 18 years old, 9% before they are 15 years old. The same in Uganda. These countries are well - known for their children's marriages, and we certainly should call attention to these violations of human rights and use every opportunity to do so. We have a embassy there, and we are doing good things that the government in that country appreciates. Then, too, we should use this opportunity and point to the best possible outcome in these countries. How sad it is to see these children's marriages that are all too common in developing countries and a disaster in order to be ruined by so many baby girls in this way! The same applies to countries mentioned here in the case of fishing projects that we do in Liberia and Sierra Leone. The same is true there. I saw the UN Women's figures that in Sierra Leone, it was about 800,000 children who would have been married, under the age of 18 and about 400,000 children by the age of 15. In Liberia, for example, there is Women's mutilation is a great problem. It's a great problem. Given the numbers I saw, there are nine out of 10 women, so there's really work to do. I'd like to encourage the highest. The minister of state to use the opportunity, let our good staff who are working there constantly announce that this is a time to overcome and this is a clean violation of human rights. Time runs fast, and there are other things I was going to share. I'd like to mention the two-fold tax agreements I made in return to the highest level. Secretary of state. I am stressing that Iceland's competitiveness with other countries in terms of the company's legal environment is a subject that we must remain ever alert to, and simple things can make Iceland's competitive position as a country technology and innovations because we don't have double tax agreements. I'm just celebrating as high as I can. In contrast, a minister said that we need to do better in these matters. We are the submers of other countries in this respect, e.g. Norway and Denmark. Here's a job to do, and I'm at the top of it. A minister to the gratitude of that subject. At the very end, because time is over, I'd like to mention it here and encourage the highest. A minister to help ensure that this is at last a proposal for the council to recognize the genocide of Christian Armenians, the genocide of the Christian Armenians, who have repeatedly, seven times, has been submitted here before the council and never through. Now, in this case, the United States has accepted this genocide, much of which has been reported. [[The president calls.]] Many nations have done so, and we Icelanders are to be among them. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of foreign affairs to use in this regard. But that is what Mr. President said, I thank you for a good discussion and a fine report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u90	A respectable president. I want to, like other senators, thank you very much. Minister for this report and the fine conversation we have here on foreign affairs. Many things are taking place, but I still want to begin with my favorite language, the north country, and our role as the northern kingdom. I'm going to commend the highest. A minister in particular for the way this class has been held in recent years. I feel that I have been especially successful in our prehuman existence in the Arctic Council, despite the fact that Covid may have enjoyed the original plan there. I think it is so important that in recent years the Arctic debate has developed rapidly and that as Icelanders, we all live in the north, and we really have everything we need to develop in this region and that this area will continue to be a place where we live on the Earth's chaos, which is going to experience the most changes in the climate. You can see the interest of other countries in the north, far from the north. They have already turned on the threat of changes in the area, but there are also opportunities. Of course, we need to consider taking advantage of opportunities that are there at the same time that we prepare for the threat and respond to the climate threat. There may be sufficient opportunity later at this council to discuss more on the Arctic matter, where there is now a conquistancy proposal to revise the Arctic policy. So I'm going to put myself on other things instead. In developing cooperation, I think it is so important that the emphasis on the tables of the last semester is to link the development team and the working together and realize that we do not achieve the UN's global objectives any other than that we all work together to do that. It's not just the government to get it, but we have to take our professional life on this road. Then it'll be exciting to watch what World Square is, which is the service table in Iceland, where we'll be returned. I find it a very interesting project, and it will be exciting to keep track of it. It says here in one subheading: Iceland's standard of living is based on free trade and services. I certainly agree. Times like Covid and what we've been through here should further open our eyes to the importance of the free flow of goods and services across the border. Well, we're an island in the North Atlantic, but we don't want to experience something similar to what we're saying in the North Atlantic. That would not be a very interesting prospect. In fact, it is amazing what some in this discussion have somehow failed to realize how important it is that we do business with other nations and that transportation and other means of communication are always open and with minimal barriers. I find it interesting to see that the National Institute of Iceland is working very good and because we've been discussing here at the time for a bill about changing the law of the Iceland lab, where we were changing the arrangement of the then-at-year institution but now a workforce of professional life and public, it's nice to see how much results we're actually achieving, and what the goal of the bill seems to be to be. Even in the troubled times we have been living in, we have seen that these activities of our industry, which are, in fact, included in service articles, I'm talking about creative articles, whether we're talking about the video game or other creative articles, are developing a lot of results and are becoming a real foundation in our economy. I've been a spokesman for this as the resource we're supposed to activate most, i.e. the manger. Of course, there are great opportunities, and as a small country, they will not be fully used as different from the fact that it is a powerful cooperation between industry and the public. And it looks like it's going pretty well for us. Then I'm just going to move in to the security and the challenges we face there. From our location here in the north, we will see that this area we want to be low-volved may not necessarily be the low-voltage zone anymore, the level of tension in the region is on the other hand growing. As a result, it is urgent that the Arctic Council and those nations make it a good concern for the conversation. We must in some way make sure that international laws are always respected. But there are other factors, and these are the multi-items that are considered in the report. We need to open our eyes to them even more. I'm going to give you a special online security issue. I think we have to admit that we haven't done well enough when it comes to Internet security. We're running, I think, pretty fast now but we need to run even faster. I think that's where we're talking about a real threat, definitely soon after our natural forces. Regarding the threat of natural disasters, I would like to mention in particular that this section is about the oceans, and we have, of course, put it on a program for our global cooperation. It has not only been one of our priorities in the Arctic Council but also in the Northern Council that we always realize what we have when the sea comes and what changes are taking place in the Arctic, and how much our diet and the environment are all around us. Of course, the acidification of the sea is a real threat. Because I put this emphasis on free business, I thought very much about it when I watched a documentary on Netflix the other day about sustainable fishing, where it is actually claimed that there is no such thing as sustainable fishing. I think the same writer did a documentary on the cattle industry or beef production a few years ago, but now the water was directed toward the ocean, and some of the Witnesses and others on sustainability were just some ◯puff. All I'm worried about is a country like Iceland that has a lot to do with the fishing road. It has been our powerful industry, which has stood firm when other employment projects are under attack. Then, of course, it is important that we make sure our appearance is that we have a sustainable fishing program, that our fishing system, which we know is the best part of the world, is secure, and that the message is coming out there that sustains sustainable fishing. In quite the last minute, I see that you can't get over almost everything, I just want to mention the "ESE." I have a seat on the SE Parliamentary Committee, and it has to be said exactly as it is that the trend that has taken place at the European Security and Cooperation Organization is a major concern. We saw this when Sólrún Gísladóttir's career with ÖSE's daughter was suddenly announced to us, which, of course, surprised us very, and clearly shows a conflict that takes place within the Agency. It further urges us, in cooperation with a less - minded state of human rights that we have always stood before, what we need to be watchful when these matters come into play. I was going to go to Belarus, and then something else, but I'm not gonna make it because I'm late. I just want to finally thank you very much for this report. It is very important and good for the discussion and for the benefit of seeing and hearing how members of the Parliament are deeply involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u91	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. Senators thank you for this clear report that has been presented in a traditional way on foreign affairs and that provides a comprehensive overview of all the international work that Iceland has to do in a formal way. It is well established that this has been conducted all day at the General Assembly for Foreign Affairs, the preceding issue on our relations with the European Union through the EEA Convention. This week we celebrate the 70th anniversary of our defense agreement with the United States, which is no doubt one of the most important international cooperations or cooperations with another foreign country in Iceland. I'm not going to discuss this specifically, but I agree with this report that in Iceland's national security policy it will continue to be based on the positive cooperation that has inevitably developed in a way that is now taking into account the growing numbers of threats facing sovereign countries around the world. We are happy to share in this development with our allies in NATO. However, I would like to mention here a small or very special part in international relations. I think a lot of people got pretty upset when there was an incident a few days ago, maybe weeks ago, which may be said to be new in Iceland's dealings with other countries. Then I refer to a relationship with China that fell into a course that we have not seen before. The Chinese Democratic Republic of Germany took to it what to say, punishments to a citizen in Iceland, a civilian. News of this has been spread. This was followed by the fact that Iceland participated in other countries condemning the situation in the region northwestern in China's vast realm, an area formerly East Turkistan, but now part of China, the Xinjiang region, may not be the case correctly, and the Úgiur region. It is largely Ugour-Mustum and others, of course, from China who have been there in most of the time. Reports have been delivered for some time, far too long, from the violations of Chinese government rights in this region with a group of people living there, including by imprisonment of individuals, torture, slavery, and sexual violence. In time, countries that want to protect human rights and democracy - may now be democracy if we look to China - in any case human rights and human beings in this world - were involved. Iceland, as well as the European Union and other countries, participated in judicial action against certain government officials in this region, certain government officials who believe to be instigators or responsible for certain violations of human rights in this region. This was answered as I described earlier by surgery, at least To Iceland, similar measures may have been taken against other countries in Iceland. But in this country, I say, an inquisitor was taken, in some way responsible for public citizens in Iceland. I had a meeting with the Chinese ambassador on this matter recently, and I therefore declared my disappointments, with, of course, the conditions in this region and the other conditions of human rights in China, including the U.S.A. in Hong Kong this date, which is in my opinion serious, but especially these actions by the Chinese against citizens, an Icelandic person who is facing this mutual punishment procedure, as the Chinese would like to call it a protest to human rights violations in China. I was disappointed to hear the Chinese ambassador say that it would be right for the Icelandic government to view this action as a warning to the future. There would be more intensive action on the prospective larger population of this kind if Iceland and other countries were to resort to some kind of penal action or protest in terms of human rights violations in other regions than the Xinjiang region. I agree with China's ambassador and those who have been running the business of the Chinese Democratic Republic about the importance of good communication between these countries and the possibility that both countries can benefit from good communication. But I made it clear that Iceland could never give a discount of the freedom of expression that exists here, whether by the government or by the public, that it will be in the interests of government communication. Of course, Iceland's dealings with China, as with all other countries, are to be faced with objective criticism and perfunctory debate in public, but certainly not as well between the state's ambassadors without the need for such threats of serious action toward citizens or governments. I just wanted to mention this in the discussion of this second extensive report in another way. It is clear to everyone who reviews it and oversees Iceland's international relations over it that the extent to which we have more communication with other countries, free communication, and business criticism even of other countries, as well as the extent to which the local interests of Iceland are more than just our national governments, without anyone having any authority to share them in any part of the country, as we do in the local language of other countries, do little to serve the interests of Iceland more than just such international relations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u92	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Andersen speaking here about how China responded to the writing of Icelandic citizens, and I think it's true that we must always keep our freedom of expression and share messages with other countries. I'm the highest. Secretary of State to impress the task when the U.S. Minister of Foreign Affairs and Russian arrive here in May to pick it up from Russia's foreign minister on the basis of human rights violations in that country. I'm here in my second speech, and I don't have much time, but I'd like to mention Europe and our dealings with Europe. Although we have been discussing a report before. Minister for the implementation of the EEA Convention, I also wanted to, because of this large foreign report, to discuss our dealings with Europe only. As we know, Europe is our largest market area. Europe is also historical and cultural in the area closest to us, from which it becomes the international agreements of enormous importance, both the EEA treaties as well as the European Parliament's treaties. Then I'm referring to agreements such as the Istanbul Convention, which is currently a major setback in former Eastern European countries, unfortunately, and there's a lot of conflicting issues in those states, even as governments in such countries as Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, and Bulgaria, when it comes to the Istanbul treaties and the values it is about the rights of women, to prevent domestic violence and to coordinate the measures of Europe's Member States when it comes to the exposed sexual equality. I'd like to encourage the highest. Secretary of state is very impressed by upholding the values of the Istanbul Convention. And I'd like to encourage us to do something similar and that we're going to the ground more closely when it comes to the protection of the EEA agreement. Even if there was some improvement in this terms period, we need so much more money in our European interests. It has been shown that it pays to have a good and effective stakeholder in Europe for the EU and for the implementation of the EEA Convention. However, we also see that a strong relationship with the EU and the EU agreement on contracting vaccines have made a big difference here when it comes to vaccinations. It also shows the importance of this integrated cooperation and cooperation. I would also like to have the EU coordinated activities of climate, refugees and the response to the Covid epidemic based on economic issues. We have everything to work in good cooperation with Europe, which is especially based on the European history and culture that we all share and need to remind ourselves regularly, as well as on the mutual interests involved in European cooperation and cooperation. I'd also like to mention, because I didn't get it in my first speech, that I'm very happy as an advanced president of the European Parliament and the vice president of the Council of Europe, to see at last this year that we have reenacted the European Commission of Iceland in Strasburg with regard to the Council of Europe and that is done in the wake of our leadership in 2022, which I have put high hopes in. The European Council is extremely important when it comes to human rights, and as I mentioned in my previous talk, human rights have become increasingly and larger in international affairs. The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is the crown jewel when it comes to the Council of Europe, and we are to protect the court and the covenants and agreements from them. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I want to thank you very much for this report and for these discussions here today, and I think they are very well aware of the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-06-91.u93	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. The discussion was practical and perfunctory, and I thank the warm words of foreign service and its staff. I agree with the above words. I think the presentation of this report is to be followed. It is very good for us to have the production as accessible as it can be. There were many places, and I can try to answer something that came out here. It was asked about Strasbourg, if the opening was permanent. As well as known, I made the decision when I took office to take advantage of the money to open up at that time rather in EU interest care as well as in Baltrexit. This budget is temporary funding, and a decision must be made if it is intended to be extended. There's been a lot of talk about the environment and the development in these issues, green foreign policy and feminic. When it comes to carrying out the work, we certainly will be able to withstand the comparison with all those who claim to be such. One cross-cutting objective for e.g. Developmental cooperation is an environment and has been a significant increase in the number of productions, in fact, in terms of equality. It is also a passage in our work to emphasize these two groups of languages. Here, health issues were referred to as part of the development team. There's something we've worked very hard on when it comes to two-sided projects, and we've worked with the local authorities both in Malawi and Uganda, and we have, for example, been there. water issues are very prominent, and there are other factors involved. For the persecution of gay people, they discuss Chechnya altogether, then queer people's issues are key issues in Iceland's Human Rights Department, and they've been all the time I've been at the Ministry and definitely before that time, and we've been very active in the human rights of queer people and gender alike in the Human Rights Council. It's where we asked why. Þórarinsson If we focus on this in the development team, we'll need Thorrinson's help. There was a working group led by the Mist Einarsdóttir who gave us proposals for human rights - oriented development and can be clear enough to know that the message is very clearly presented to the parties we are working with and especially to the countries in the two - sided partnership. This was a reference to the affairs of the sea. This is a key element in our prehumanity in the Arctic Council, and particularly plastic pollution in the ocean, since it was referred to as something special. One of our priorities in the Arctic Council was to emphasize this aspect. There is a debate over the Department of Ministry issues, and we are certainly active participants in that field and when it comes to the high-real rights. Then it was asked whether we did not share embassies with other northern nations. We do it from many places. The most famous example is in Berlin, where all the North countries are together, but we share, for example. a building in Washington with Sweden, in Beijing, Estonia, London with Denmark, and I think Norway is coming in there too. In New Deli, we are with Denmark and in Kampala, also with Denmark. If there's any way we can do it, we'll use buildings with other northern countries and we've given them a great deal of money. This is where it went. Haraldsdóttir I agree with what it said. Hv. paritaprevir The Red Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir discussed the Istanbul deal, and we have criticized the apostasy of the Turks from the Istanbul Convention and described concern over his situation. I sent a statement from March 20th, where I lamented the Turkish government decision to report the Istanbul deal. We emphasized that it was government to undermine an important legal base that ensured victims of violence, and it should, in fact, be the goal of all European countries to promote that foundation rather than to reduce it. It was then referred to as the genocide of the Armenians and brought to mind that recently President Joe Biden of the United States under the definition that the massacre in the Armenian memory of the Ottoman part at the beginning of the 20th century was genocide, which had been done the same in 2019 C.E. Today, some 30 countries have defined the massacre as genocide. There is no question that great wickedness was done against the Armenians during World War I. It is said that as many as one million of them were murdered. In general, however, recognition of these events seems to come from Congress rather than from governments. I believe it is only natural that the Council takes the initiative and the discussion of the definition of these events rather than the government, although in one website there is always a picture of me when it is said that it has not been validated. It's not that good, I don't think anybody has the authority to run the council. But I'm expecting a man to take it well, and I think it's wise for the council to have run away from it. They mentioned telecommunications here. There's something we've been making very good of, and I've sent a letter to my colleagues in whatever cooperation we are with, not going in the same direction as before, both to a minister and to others, but to use our telecommunications better. This has proved to be good. Of course, telecommunications are not completely replaced, but they certainly often do. Finally, I want to face challenges. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who went through the northern regions of knowledge, said something I thought was the essence of. It is that we continue what we started when we began applying ourselves to human rights. I was surprised that none of my officers had addressed the United Nations Human Rights Council, and I am the first U.S. Secretary of State to do so. Hv. A senator did well over what effect we have had, and as we look at it, I have found it very, and indeed the coverage of these matters has been more in foreign fields than here. But it is important that there is a parapolitic stand to keep it going, so I agree with it. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson, this is something we should continue to do. However, the important thing is: There is no one who cares for us except for us. We must always stay on the watch when it is time to do so. I think it's very important. I think it's a really big change since I brought my first report on the subject, and I think it's more upbuilding, more objective. I felt that it was based on much more knowledge. One of the things we have stressed is getting things away from us and presenting what's going on, including with this report. I think it's the basis for the discussion to be practical and objective. The talk on international matters must be here at the council because it is our personal interest that we monitor our interests, that we protect our interests, and that foreign services are equipped to do so. There is no doubt that the changes we have made in foreign service have intensified it. I've been scolded for saving money, but I believe it's the role of politicians to manage money as well as possible. Similarly, spending is not related to success. The examples show us. Of course, there are times when people have to put more money on the job, so that there are always things to be done to improve, and they need to work out the money they have at one time and try to achieve the best possible results. I'm very proud of the Icelandic foreign service. I think she's done very well, especially at these challenging times. Of course, the most prominent civil service project is when we arrive in about 10,000 Icelanders in a very short time in the remaining form. But with so many other opportunities and privileges, we can never sit down and say that we have already taken care of our interests, so that we do not have to do more. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Again, members of the body of elders for good discussions, objective and upbuilding, as well as especially thanks to foreign workers for their work, and then, of course, the report is based on their work and their work, and to their credit.
