ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u1	Mr. President. Less than six months ago, I requested information from a sea emissary on the possession of 20 of the largest commercialized organisations in the country, other than the seaside. A third of the members of Congress were with me at the petition adopted by all votes at the Assembly Hall. Ministers have ten weeks to report the requested reports. In fact, after the ten - week extension, I received a request from the Ministry that the request be restricted. That's what I did. It's been 14 weeks, a total of less than six months. The information I wanted is based on the data we have available on our own civilizations, their daughterhoods, their tenures, and their daughterhood partnerships, whether the budget is registered in Iceland or abroad. Their high economic standing is based on their patent approval of the country's common resource, appointing them to a special category of Icelandic employment. There is evidence to suggest that the investments of these associates beyond the article have greatly increased. This can easily lead to substantial accumulation of possessions and effects on few hands and to reduced active competition in markets. Because of its small size, Icelandic life is particularly sensitive to the competition, and Icelandic society is particularly sensitive to the abnormal and damaging nature of special interests. The report, when it comes to public exposure, will provide important information on the real effects of persons who have untimely patented patents to the use of the resources, on the effects of these parties on Icelandic employment and Icelandic society, those who have untimely patented patents in the administration of the government. Asks: Why is this delay in a summary of the information most available or in public? Is there something to fear? Is this information bad for the public, or is it bad for them to come before elections? Is that bad? For who?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u2	Mr. President. Despite Samherja's apology, which was long since timely but very vague, the reports of the company's leaders'conduct towards the central institutions of society continue to appear. Samherji has acted unusually hard against the media, with a letter demanding that a minister give an explanation of his comments here in the General Assembly, and this morning the company continued its journey with the staff of Iceland's Secret Bank and the bank manager. I repeat what was said here yesterday: The generals owe Samhera no explanation of their remarks that fall here in a speech chair. But the big thing is, we have to have some way of dealing with such progress as a community. We have to be able to provide better protection to the media from the efforts of large companies and to ensure adequate legal resources to the police, the prosecutors and other organisations to start a investigation in case of a suspected crime. Our system has to be active and the lawgiver, here at the General Assembly, must provide staff of the basic community protection from this kind of harassment, as the bank manager himself said. I, and probably more, was hoping that the Samherja's apology might be taken as an example of the sincere desire of this important company to settle with society. Sadly, though, there seems to be a lack of humility in the fact that the resources that the company has earned from its entire nation. Enterprises that use our resources must also live up to more demands than others to social responsibility. They must cooperate with the community in which they operate, comply with laws and regulations, and not only to pay the owner full price for their use but also to show respect and humility to the owner of the Icelandic community. Mr. President. I also hope that these matters all help us here at the council to get together on real changes, not virtual changes in the resource policy of a constitution. Often needed, but now is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u3	President. At the end of the council, I find it interesting to talk only about cooperation and politics. There was a debate here at a council yesterday, in answer to, about being show in politics, and there were findings where we might see behind closed doors, etc., there are some things that are said which are then not said exactly the same way when it comes to a speaker. Piratar and I have often talked about our not being ready to cooperate with the Independence Party or the Central Party of Power. We, however, are always available to cooperate on issues. If people are willing to make a verbal defense of good things, we are always ready to listen. But this is often reacted in a very strange way when we say that we don't want to go on a government partnership with those whom I mentioned and talk about some sort of elimination and harassment or something like that. But it is natural for those on the thrones of power to function as ministers. There is no one who has a right to any power, and there is no need for anyone else to be supportive of them, for we are to use objective support to promote our affairs. It has shown that the independent party has not been successful in ruling. In recent years, all unique moral values have been their responsibility. In terms of the issues, although the Central Party claims to be rational and rational with regard to its presentation, we simply do not trust them to keep our word. As a result, we will not listen to something that claims to be rational and rational but will not after all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u4	Mr. President. There was no need for the trumpet blast on the restoration of the health system at the time of the government. In this light, in fact, there is an independent study of how the system's waiting lists have increased throughout this ideal period. I'd like to mention an answer I received from earlier this year about the status of an eating team at the Hospital. You see, there are striking numbers. In addition, the eating team is said to be one quarter less than before the start of the season. Three years ago, the team has had housing problems after fleeing the mold, and the number of waiting lists has increased seven times during the election season and the waiting period at the same time, from 2◯4 months up to 18◯20 months after getting into the service of the crash team of the Land Hospital. But what does this waiting time mean? During this long period of time, a patient with untreated eating disorder may get into a much worse place, allowing all treatment to become heavier and more difficult, and the patient gets into a life-threatening condition. This also means that patients and caregivers must tread the sponge at this waiting time. But how? Yes, by combing from your own pocket psychology service. This is a matter of life and death, so medical surgery has resulted in a concern of cost to patients. During the past few weeks, there have been reports of a more serious situation on BUGL. The Ministry pointed out in the answer to the Land Hospital rather than to provide a future plan, but thankfully, a turnover was made when the media began to walk on the minister and she was going to call for a plan for improvement from Land Hospital. Mr. President. We're talking small amounts of money. This team's run cost 55 million last year. Today, there is an international fight date for eating disorders and we still wait for news of a plan for improvement in the treatment of eating disorders. It would have been a gray idea for the government to take advantage of the opportunity today and show that it does not care about patients and caregivers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to talk about tax reductions today, the necessary things we have to go to right after the election to ensure that the public income is increasing and that the business of the country has more money in its account to improve its profits, strengthen our activities, hire more employees, and pay them a better salary. It's like there's a real world going on right now. We'll discuss the various legal issues associated with this council's final meters, but at the same time, the welfare minister seems, so I'll take one minister as an example, hardly get out of bed differently than scattering tens of millions of people like to throw them out of a helicopter. In time, we'll have to pay them bills. All the delirium that confronts us now, where the government fund seems to have never been reached as irresponsiblely as it is now by the government that controls - all accounts will come back and we will have to pay them. Yesterday's bill was discussed with us on the terms of the General Assembly. The terms of the general council will change. in that they do not enjoy travelling for the last six weeks before the election. At the same time, we should set a rule that if someone meets that way, they'll need a shovel shot at a nursing home two weeks before the election, then the Ministry should take that shovel sting. Government funds are being handled in such a way that incorruption is inexplicable. We will see, in August and September, an endless minister with his helicopter coins, where the rest and those groups are given a coin in hopes of a wide variety of votes. The tip of a shovel will be taken right, left, which is not unique. All those bills will eventually be paid. I challenge the highest. The President of the Generals who sits behind me and is the commander of the bill to consider this for the 3rd. The point is that counsellors will be forbidden to appear in the covert of their office in surprises as during the past six weeks to settle the situation that may occur between members of the council and stewards at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u6	A respectable president. I want to talk about the national property of the few. During the discussion that now takes place on the establishment of the superpowers, politicians must be alert to their primary role in defending public interests. In this context, we need to examine the resource principle that Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has now proposed, and ask: For whose benefit is this law? The answer to this question on the part of the VG will be presented today in an article by the Council of the Coalition of the Core of the Core, which says that it is important that we have a resource law but, as it is said, by permission of the President, we do not fully consider the major natural resources we use today. A reliable and timeless piece of paper will be the result. President. The result would certainly be reliable and timeless for the large production of resources that would be in no way in its interests. Sadly, the result would be unchanged for the common people. While the prime minister's bill refers to national property, he does not mention that the right to use this nation's property should be temporary and that for that right the dues need to be paid a natural price. To give this word of national interest, it is necessary to ensure that the use of a common resource is made by temporary agreements and, of course, it is also important that a normal payment for this use be made. That's how we protect public interest. This is the issue of universal importance in the political context and the answer to the government is clear. You see, there's nothing to change. That is why this proposal is silent about the largest political issues. You see, the strongest message here is in what is not said, in silence about the things that would ensure the best interests of the public. Mr. President. This is a proposal for the national property of the few.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u7	Mr. President. It is a joy that over 60% of the people trust their present government for fine works. In such a situation, it is vital that trust prevails with the governments that carry out difficult tasks during difficult times, as this crown - virus epidemic has proved to be the nation and the inhabited earth. The prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, also has great confidence, and that is very good. It also shows that the people of the land trust the left green to lead the nation through difficult times, and they have succeeded. Governments have taken many measures, facing people and businesses in difficult situations. There has never been more money in transportation or innovation, health issues, and other aspects of coping with these difficult situations. This platform is often filled with pessimism, and how can humans roll up from the most unlikely things in an effort to breathe in the nation? But they clearly do not succeed, and people are happy for how they have done so. This is a good indication that the left green, our party, will be eligible for administrative cooperation in the next election, and most likely all of them want to have their Lilja standards in the fall of trying to form a government with left greens. We thus have the right to rely on ourselves to lead forward to the government, and there are issues that determine which groups we work for. Trust is a key to politics, and the projects ahead will never be completed. There is always some work ahead of us, and we always have to do better in all the lawsuits, but it is good that the nation trusts the left greens to remain in the lead, and they have proved themselves to be very successful in recent terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u8	Mr. President. It does not show ambition to work organized for 2040. In less than 20 years, two events occur: greenhouse gas emissions fall by 55% or more in a combined stream with other European countries under the Paris Convention. The next year's steps are already taken under the funded implementation programme, which, of course, must be reviewed and adjusted by the EU and the EEA, as near as it will be 2030. Of course, emissions are primarily transport, a job outside the ETS system. At the same time, a wide range of carbon - binding projects ranging from forestry to deforestation of carbon dioxide, all with measurable targets, such as ground - use assessments of emissions and carbon binding and forestry, are under way. A special effort is now being made to provide more data and to strengthen the evaluation of carbon - derived species. Mr. President. For the Council, there is now a bill of carbon neutralisation that will ensure the progress of the project and the way to change the variable, for over 20 years, the paces will be many, varied, and adjusted reality in cooperation with our partners. In fact, foreign companies are expected to bind carbon here in wetlands, forestry, and subsidies, and pay for them. All talk about government ambition, the lack of leadership, or money, is of little value. Of course, the evidence is not available. Iceland will hold on to climate targets as well as increase environmental protection if left greens continue to control evolution in cooperation with other groups at the General Assembly. While many people focus on State obligations and criticize them for small contributions, the fact is that the cost of noncarbonization falls on the state, on rural areas, on the business companies, and on the general public. There's no one who plays solo in these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u9	A respectable president. Tourists are having problems getting people of unemployment back to work. A number of unemployed rejections, failures to reach and do not show up for interviews. I contacted the company's organisation for travel services that report their experiences in the last summer when tourism was difficult and repetitive. The problem, however, is far more widespread and more serious than any traveling service expected. I want to list some serious cases that I received information about. A country-wide company called 60 of their former employees, and none of them wanted to come back to work. Some Icelanders are abroad, and others are off to their homes and want to be there on unemployment benefits in Iceland, where benefits are higher than wages. A firm in the capital area did not get Icelanders working because they did not want to work on weekends. A local company doesn't get people working because they want to do their vacation first. Businesses in the country have serious problems with getting people. A firm in the northwestern country, which would have to have a 253/430 position in the husk and restaurant services, near the end of the year, for example. I'm just making 12 positions. These are just a few examples, and I've heard more stories about the country almost everywhere, wherever it is, and is not in harmony with what the senators have said in speeches in this hall about wanting to work all the time. According to my sources, a labour agency has taken 350 people out of reforms due to these last days. It is damaging to companies to train new employees, and these are not useful to the resources offered. The company does not receive employment grants with new people who are not filled with unemployment. The conclusion is that if the same situation continues, it will block the current article with significant increases and unnecessary cost of the state's unemployment insurance system as well as the slow - moving of valuable things. A respectable president. Is this the condition of the pay or the benefits to blame?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u10	V.E.G. President. The objective of the government law was, among other things, when we set the laws and approved them here, to more fully trust the survival of the Council to the objective of public funds that lay the basis for each year's budget. It may be said that the goal has been established here in the last year on all the Covid issues that have been handled by the coming of the Parliament to a budget, as well as the policy being updated in the response we have agreed on here with the epidemic and the amount of equipment it has caused. However, one of the less frequent discussions we will discuss in the council hall is the implementation of budgets. It is a very important part of strengthening and improving the account and discipline in the financial affairs and at the same time the purpose of these laws. Each minister, in accordance with the law, must be responsible for effective monitoring and provision of funds, that they are within the framework decided by the General Assembly and shall be informed both by the government and by the General Assembly's legal committee on financial progress. This should occur less frequently than quarterly. A financial committee has now been informed about the key results of the first quarter and can be said to have a positive result overall. Preservation is certainly negative, but income is more than cost, and overall there are expenses within the budget. The result is a positive abnormality of some 7 billion. It should be emphasized, however, that this is only a three - month resolution and was an updated forecast in connection with a recent financial program that we agreed on. For six months of progress and development, further picture is available. A financial committee has already called for further information on what causes and how a minister will react. A respectable president. It is very important that the budget of these factors be taken care of and that these fibers will be considered in the autumn budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u11	President. At the beginning of this terms, in October 2017, the striking report of the state police detective's analysis of organized crime in Iceland was published. It included a serious warning that the scope of such activity had increased greatly in this country, and it was difficult for us to cope with this trend. However, the report describes the police as a sort of emergency calling for provisions to deal with this changing reality and this growing problem calls for human resources, tools and equipment, technology, knowledge, sources, and financial resources. What has been the response of the government and the greater part of the council? Almost none. And again, a report on the scope of organized crime was published in 2019, in the middle of the ideal period. This did not provide the necessary response and the indications that the police have repeatedly stated. All our suggestions for further funding to the police to enable her to cope with this crisis have been dropped by the government. Rather, she presents two new matters to be completed at this council, apparently, which have been designed to facilitate these gangs of crime here. It is, on the one hand, a bill on the legal prevention of drugs, and on the other hand, a bill that will change the security network here, something that is repeatedly turned aside in these reports, making it harder for us to avoid the misuse of drugs, at the same time as the rest of the North countries are going in the opposite direction to prevent the misuse of the pleasure - seeking system, which is most difficult to control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u12	Mr. President. The debate on the financial problems of nursing and residence is loud. Many of them seem to have gone into bankruptcy. Some rural communities have already thrown in the white cloth and say, "We can't do any more, we don't want any more. One billion on budgets does not change anything, preserves unchanged conditions, and continues uncertainty. It's a very short line of guards. However, a new budget of financing is being promised in 263 new nurses over the next four years. Ideas are also bankrupt. Ramakalins are heard in many health - care systems, once again from Hospitals; cannibals, space shortages, financial shortages, and professional crisis. Mr. President. It is close to an emergency in many areas of service to the elderly. The government must be in its policy course in aging services, looking at the big picture in a new light. The far too one - sided view that makes it impossible for founded operations to work, which is a time error. Other nations have become aware of this, but not of the Icelanders. Like what? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson in his talk, of the new welfare policy for the elderly, which we in the United States held in mid - May, is a clear view that nursing care will cost more than 100 billion in a decade if we keep the same line. It is not a good option for the elderly who in the modern world do not envision a place in traditional Longsaving institutions as an acceptable option, nor is it a good option for the state box, since the newly elected head of the older European Union was greatly below the Kastlight field last night. Mr. President. Conversion is a big project, but it's necessary, not a pop. It requires a parapolitic solidarity and a long - term strategy for a new life and a new future for the elderly. Health and welfare technology, brilliant professionals, and other trained servants in the ministry create countless possibilities that we have not yet benefited from. It is a novelty project in its most vivid form and the theme of teamwork, humanity, and creative thinking. There's a clear vision for the Conspiracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u13	Mr. President. During the republican season, the independence party and the forwarding party have largely kept the administrations, usually together, sometimes separately. The community we live in today is their responsibility. Of course, that story has a bright side, but unfortunately, it's also quite dark. It is known to all who want to know that the forces of these fundamental groups of society are large, and through the Republic's history, there has been a strong link between the classes and the principal stakeholders of Icelandic society. You pet me, I'll pet you. It is no coincidence that these groups are not inclined to adjust when it comes to the fishing and agricultural systems. It's not because of the rich political interests they defend. No, it is for the special interest of the groups themselves and the companies they serve. It is also not a coincidence that as soon as the discussion of the Crown and the European Union is opened, these same classes are going on the glue. It is not because of the rich public interests involved in increasing orderliness for homes and businesses in the country. No, that is because those who feel that they are losing are the possessors of special interest that the Party defends. President. The Union has given public insight into the self - interest of these groups. I hope the public is prepared to open their eyes and prefer political parties who have greater interests for themselves. There is much at stake for the future of our country and people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u14	A respectable president. The prerequisite for growth in the country is a policy, a powerful telecommunications, and a good road system. The Icelandic government has set up ambitious goals for building up and can monitor their progress on a new transport and local government website. The site is the name Guideline and is an interactive information site where funding, progress and success can be monitored by 500 projects and by 60 performance criteria. So there will be more to watch on the Internet than the volcanic eruption, which I know many people are excited about these days. The new site will include all plans for a single, unique schedule or part of a schedule. For example, all national based programmes or only measures based on Western soil and specific types of action based protocols or e.g. magazines and/or telecommunications services. But speaking of the West. When I entered this web, I saw, and I saw it on my journeys through the West, the revolution of transportation, and the improved road system there. It includes the Douging Shrimp that is now to be completed for 2023, and the Gufudal Deserts, and not to be forgotten about the quarter of the world's population along with various roads. This is a quarter of the people who have been sitting a little bit in the last few decades. Those who have made their way through Kjalarnes in the past few months see that the double west roads are well advanced, a project I'm sure will make major changes in opportunities for people in this area. History has taught us that the opening of the Cradle Vaults resulted in a greater variety of employment opportunities in the entire Western country. These activities are fragmented by the targets found on the site. I encourage all who are interested in the development and communications programme to look into Vega and see how the future is facing job opportunities and construction throughout the country, transport and communications.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u15	A respectable president. Is it not gross financial violence to reduce income and pension pay from the poor and elderly in the social security system of about 75 to 100 percent? Maintaining 26,000. or less, even nothing, left in every 100,000 dollars. is not tax and impairment. Why has a government by the government in recent decades built and maintained such an historic system? This, however, is a repeated promise for elections to change this gross product of property. Legally-created property-refuge fund is used to reduce the tax pay of social security after the first 25,000 bucks. is the worst for those who should, the low - paying men, and the majority of them are women. Marriage is now a total of 1,210,368 k. a month, and if it were taxes, and if it were reduced in the same way as the pension pay, there would be 314,600 dollars left in our pockets, not even dollars, after chain - reaction declines were withdrawn. Why is it all turned upside down in this mindless, unsettled system of social security, a system established by governments in the last few decades, maintained and made so complicated on purpose that only computers can calculate chain-acting impairments to their worst, and put them directly into very limited items? At the same time, a nation's common resources pay little or nothing for super rich taxes, not a dollar taken from them in the decrease or chain - carrying impairments of billions of profits. At the same time, the poor money binds the worst of the stocks in the social security system by the government. Their injustice is bad, but worse so is justice, which only appears just before elections, empty promises that their time has come and their justice is finally at last, but after election it will all go the same way, the wealth will flow right into the pockets of the rich. The people say, "The people first." And make sure once and for all that families, children, and individuals do not have to live in poverty in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u16	President. This is a new proposal from the Ministry to the bill, as it has been suggested regarding electronic signatures. Then the management committee felt that a word I can't remember which was in front of my face was needed, which was inserted. But now the Ministry's comment that the word had to be written ▪ perfectly valid in front of an electronic signature was made to make sure that it was fully equivalent to the signatures on paper. This bill adds that signatures can continue to be collected with letters of recommendation and letters of letters and that on paper. But it is also possible to make it electronic. This is to make sure that these signatures are bioequivalent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u17	A respectable president. It was a little funny to see a color exchange table back here, where the management teams carefully arranged for the red button when they heard that a member of the chair had a change of motion. [[No.]] No one but a what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir realized that Jón Þór Ólafsson was making a new proposal as director of the Board of Directors and Controls. I encourage people to take down the chariot horse belts and realize that this is just a motion that the committee would have made in its entirety if we weren't in 3. Around, and see if we can wound up here until the last green light. But, anyway, it would be a lot of fun if people voted on the basis of language rather than on the name of the candidate. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u18	Mr. President. In the smaller section, we support the extension of the necessary measures discussed here. However, the vote is also suggested that we meet the challenges of students in Iceland and allow them to enjoy the rights that they have, of course, shared in paying for, i.e. in the employment insurance fund, so that they can also get this shelter that we give to other jobseekers on the land, although temporary. The preliminary proposal that we make is only for summer now, the summer 2021, during study periods. I suggest that all members of the Parliament decide whether they do not trust in supporting students and their families in these complex times, such as with others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u19	Mr. President. We'll support the extension. It is necessary to meet the problem of this group that he faces because of Covid. But we also support the change in the memory of the object. As an emissary officer of the JUB committee, I agree with it because not everyone must see and accept the injustice of the student's position when it comes to these things, students who often earn part-of-school money, pay their share in employment insurance, and then are made to sit with the poor. This is a very good opportunity because this is a temporary means of testing whether heaven and earth and such an Icelandic system of things will turn upside down despite being guarded by that justice. This is a temporary resource that offers a welcome opportunity to be tested for any harm we may have when we say that we want our young ones to pursue education and that we allow them to pursue education. These are small financial and small steps that are important to this group, and possibly one of them all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u20	President. I agree with those who spoke before and have this adjustment in the memory of the section that turns to ensure that students receive unemployment. This is an extremely important matter. We must not allow groups to drop between ships and docks in this process, and the studyers have not been able to meet them adequately. We in Pirates support these actions, extension of these actions. But at the same time, I think it is important that I be asked by the Committee to get information from the Ministry on the results of these actions before we would extend them, what was actually the result of the procedure to be extended. I didn't get any answers. I don't know if it's just because the Ministry hasn't had time to send answers or if there's no such information, I don't know. I hope so much that they're in a hurry, but I haven't seen the results. And it is extremely difficult to assess such measures if we do not have access to information that shows us that they are effective. How important it is that we also control the students, and it's annoying that the answer is: The computer says no because of something. We have to control this important group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u21	A respectable president. This is a very good case. We are extending income - related unemployment benefits and meeting sports companies and others in that sector. What has been mentioned here about students and unemployment improvements, then the government has been working to create jobs for students. We think it's a better way to meet students. During the last summer, over 500 jobs were not available for students. Now, according to their report, the summer looks very good. The government has also created summer jobs for students. With students, it is a great pleasure to have the number of jobs that are available, apart from the fact that professional life is starting and calling for each hand to work. They have students who are reaching out for labor. Of course, it's best for everyone to have a job. Do we not agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u22	A respectable president. I'm on this committee party, and it's a good thing in itself. That is why it is incomprehensible why we are turning down students from paying off money. I just can't get this kind of ideization. Why on earth do they not have this right? We know that a large group of students earns their living at school, solely, and lost their job at Covid. Why on earth do they not get the same rights that they have earned? It's incomprehensible, and especially because it's supposed to be temporary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u23	Mr. President. I'll come up a second time because of what to say. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Yes, there has been a growing number of jobs, but the ones left in advertising last year were very many special jobs that were being sought out for individuals who had started some special study and that were not going out. There is, of course, a growing number of jobs in general, but we have decided to have a system to catch those who are jobseekers and that we can't get the job done. There are many reasons for doing so. Now, I've wondered, " Despite all the grisly talk here in the Senate about anything else, I've been representing a labour agency who said that it was almost unknown that people would refuse their jobs. ' It's a very small group that does, and there may be legitimate reasons, so I think we should save only the short time we have with jobseekers and rather try to support all groups rather than just some. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u24	President. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. The head of the welfare committee, who basically said what I wanted to say after this talk. paritaprevir Lilja the Rafney Magnúsdóttir earlier. I'd like to add that, in terms of being dramatic and taking special care for the unemployed in some campaign against cheating, that I and others in the lesser part of the welfare committee will make adjustments between the 2nd and 3rd districts. where we suggest that this be changed, so as to see whether a job is suitable for professional experience and education by the person applying for the job. There are reports that 350 jobseekers temporarily lost their right to unemployment benefits. This is natural turmoil and something we must fix, especially in these times. We can't be forcing people to do jobs that are just not suitable for them. It is not justified, and it must be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u25	Mr. President. I have to admit, I was a little surprised when I heard it. paritaprevir According to Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, director of this matter on behalf of the welfare committee, students say that summer looked very good. That's just not what the student Council of the University of Iceland says about this case, which is only two weeks old. That is where the student's request for students to receive insurance from an unemployable insurance fund is held by the student's Council. This does not mean that they are not concerned, on the contrary. But if the head of the Commission on the case, head of the board on the case, interprets it as being all well looked for students, the same students as found in the Eurostdent survey, 70% of them, working with a degree to support themselves, and that a third of them wrestled during the past year with serious or very serious financial problems -- this is called scrambling, President. [[The president calls.]] This may even be called dishonest on a lawsuit. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u26	It's deep in the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u27	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and point out that in the words of the day. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnóttirs Magnúsdóttir all encouraged the United States to accept this adjustment proposal to allow students now because if the situation is so good that they are more or less all with jobs in summer, these are so few people that it simply cannot matter to let them into this system they really pay. Except for a message of what? One senator was that students will not accept employment if offered to be paid. Maybe that's the message.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to come up here and give up because I'm dishonest in a lawsuit. You can accept a message differently than just comments. Students who came before the committee said that they were interested in accessing the unemployment system. Of course, this discussion has been long, and it has not been agreed that they should be in that system. There have been discussions between labor and professional drivers that students do not live there. But there have also been reports of this, and students to whom I have listened have recently come to the news and talked about the fact that the summer looks great and the number of jobs is increasing, the job life is about to start, and there is no concern about unemployment this summer. That's what I was stressing in my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u29	President. I'd like to point out that this also applies, e.g. about older citizens. They are taking tax or public fees for people's work, which, in turn, are supposed to go to the law to pay them unemployment if they lose their job. When it comes to older people, and in this case students, they are paid for by someone who is not under law if they lose their job. I can't see how it harmonizes with a constitution to be taken for this purpose to people, but it doesn't have the rights to make it. The best thing about this would be either if they were to be clean and direct it, to stop taking this tax from the students, and to stop taking this tax from older citizens, or to give them the full rights that this tax should give them. Otherwise, I can't see how this works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u30	A respectable president. This is probably a case of justice in terms of the equalness of seated senators who are running for office as do other candidates. However, I do believe that this would protect equal relations because ministers can now storm across the country and end up on cars and their drivers. I believe the committee needs to consider the matter a little more carefully, so it is requested that the matter be settled back in a committee of discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u31	Mr. President. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. The importance of this matter being examined in a larger context in terms of democracy, a member of the council and my minister, the Guðmunders of Thorsson son of Thor. While it is good and proper to be limiting the expense that the members of Congress can bring in as operating costs when they struggle in a campaign, there is nothing more than to look at the great democratic palaces that are created when 11 ministers can use the rich funds of the state for a campaign of three governments. I think it would be good to ask an organization like a century of self-sustaining and democracy, which is the only source in the debate, to the democracy that is there, and how to deal with it. Because I think it's serious when we raise so much under the board each time that new vehicles and other costs can benefit themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u32	Mr. President. In this matter, unchanged, one group of men and women will remain in a superior position during the subsequent election. There are ministers. I don't give much credit to the Commission and Commission, or the General, receiving a letter from the Ministry where it is announced that there will be a change in the success of Ministers following this bill's approval. I simply can't trust it, so I can't support it. Now, a time of eating cutters and shoveling, and a moral minister to travel through the country, making himself fit, I will vote against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u33	A respectable president. This is very interesting. I understand, for example. not why councilmen who are not running for office are excluded in this, but I'm willing to accept the case despite that. I just don't think it's necessary. They are to be able to apply for reimbursement, such as the rest of them. However, in terms of the Ministers, I have full confidence that this bill will be handled correctly, although with a large EN: the last campaign or in 2016, I was on a fram through the Sunfells, at my own expense, at my own expense. There I met a minister who was also on the road and was going to high school and then, but then he showed up in the Ministers' car for an election meeting in Ólaifsvík on the same day. It's probably a trip that's crashed into the Ministry, although a part of the purpose of that trip was just coming to a company campaign meeting. We also need to turn this around: If a new campaign is involved, it is a campaign, although it is an unexpected visit to some school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u34	Mr. President. It's a sad statement. This is an attempt to sow suspicion contrary to the facts. I don't understand what's going on. A senator will join us. Can we not rejoice in this need for improvement, which is reassigning candidates who do not have non-sponsored candidates to the rest of the campaign? The basic laws that settle this matter are here for release, for the Congress Preliminaries, and for the cost of Congress. The matter has been taken care of, so it is legal that the office of finance Ministers should adjust the rules for the councilmen as to the role of the senator, the legal office of the Council. In addition, we have the letter of that person to advise that it will be done, of course, but we wouldn't have had to write that letter. Thus, the minister of finance, responsible for these rules, is to adapt and conform to what the General decides. They're deciding how this will be in the end of the election in the fall, and they don't need any letters. I'm sorry that men are trying to make up something that doesn't exist at all. The law will take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u35	A respectable president. I hope this is true for all alike, but unfortunately, suspicion exists. We were agreeing to the law recently, where everyone pays for a non-employment fund, but there's always someone left behind. The suspicion is at hand. It seems that the rule is always to leave someone behind or that some should have more than others. It's starting to go through here. We'll see this best when students and older citizens pay on a non-employment board and still get nothing back. Therefore, the suspicion and fear here are always being made to make sure that someone else is getting more or that someone is left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u36	Mr. President. Even if these are not all the steps we want to see the points, the steps we take with this bill are positive. We talked about it here with 1st. The time had come for a review of all the regulations of the district convention and the cost of Congress. It's complicated, it's omnipotent, and it's part of this rule that offers at least the appearance of self-employment, so it's not fixed. That does not change the fact that this step is good, although it is not the last step or the best we could take. But we'll just look at it on the board and the monitoring committee whether it can be implemented to cover all of us who are sitting here in this room, not just the lawgivers on the other side, but also those who are the executives on the front of the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u37	President. It's a very good thing. This means, in effect, that the cost of a campaign will not be paid by the General. In many cases, members of the council travel around to carry out their campaign campaigns. Let's just look at things. We have senators, some of them are ministers, the rest are members of the council and so are all other candidates, other classes, etc. and members of the same party, but not in the council, and they are not paid at all. What this bill does is make it even. By agreeing with the bill as it is equal to a position in a campaign. Now the case has been called in to the management and monitoring committee and, of course, we'll discuss it there and find out more clearly how the situation is with the Ministers, who, as indicated, is believed to be well framed. But some feel that it is not well framed, so we can get it straight on the committee so that we can handle what is being done and that's good with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u38	Mr. President. I think it's kind of strange when I'm talking about this case and a vote that there's a reason. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon became angry alone during the season, because I felt that this was a valid reason for this discussion. We have seen ministers, even in this terms, traveling around in relatively more complex and expensive vehicles than merely on horses and cars. I'm not going to refer to that news, but there's only good reason to stop this. True, these changes are good because they are equal with members of the council that do not sit in special elections or new offers. So here, there's just a view support. There is nothing wrong, however, with the council's trial, catechism, or elsewhere, that the same should be true of a minister. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u39	Mr. President. It is, of course, the best thing to do in promoting an election is to maintain equal justice between candidates. There's no dispute, and there's some senators taken out of there very specifically, those non- secretaryly senators, but ministers left behind. To call it a sad case, that's just not right. It's like that. It's like a twin to put it out like this. Of course, ministers are to be subject to the same charge as members of the council. There is no way out of this, to agree with this case, unless the decision is made to simply park the ministers, put them in these six weeks. The middle tribe has fought this matter from the very beginning, pointing to this double - skined tongue. We will not be able to accept this matter. The Ministers have to be on board with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u40	Mr. President. It's a good thing to reduce travel costs and even conditions, but this is not the case. Here comes the highest. In effect, the president of the Generals establishes that he is concerned. paritaprevir The Sæmundsson of Sólmund and others who have spoken here is well established. When I'm at the highest. The president says that arrangements will be made later so that the Minister's Department of Congress will not be used to travel around, how in the hell it's going to be accomplished? Where does the Senate work for the Minister and Minister's Department start? Of course, this is absolutely impossible. Should it be said that the Ministers will be driven to votes at the council? And, of course, it is common, as you may know, that you go on cars together. Will counsellors be banned in a campaign to take passengers, bringing in senators who are running around the country, but may they still be able to make reasons related to the Ministerial Work, which are almost any trips that may have gone anyway? This is a completely unscrupulous waste in this case and is intended to throw dust into the eyes of members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u41	Mr. President. I think some people are like a fox to the good - looking berries, that they are still sour. This is good. The change between the Council and the Council is clear, and it's legal on both sides. The General Act establishes a Synod and Parliamentary budget, which includes the basis for the Court's work. discussed travel costs, regulations for members of Congress. The Council of Government is to provide comparable rules with advisers because they travel in clean government or are members of Congress and candidates for the implementation of elections. I'd like to inform you that it has already taken place on the Presidency Committee to reconsider the whole of Congress and Congress, and an office is entrusted with quite a subsidence. But if you're so worried about it, you're sitting here in the audience. Financial and economic ministers. Can I ask him to come up here so kindly and answer: Will he immediately agree with the travel cost of this law?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u42	Mr. President. It's just that there's a lot different between us here at the council how many times we've been in the part of the fox. Of course, they know what has been there. There's nothing else here, and the discussion has been about it at least for most members of the council, but the council wants it to happen, possibly in committees or elsewhere, and that it is wrong. It's just the Ministers to tie them in. That's all there is to it. It is only a matter of course, so we and the media and the public can observe in what way this will be carried out until the election. But I'm celebrating this bill because it's an equal step.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u43	Let's be happy together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u44	A respectable president. I come up here to make sure that, of course, people are doing what has been said, that the work expenses will be consistent, as has been promised. It is not in any sense that the matter is being sent here to the council and that people observe what happens at the council. Then there is another issue: This is where the council is trying to pursue a course that can be very difficult to discuss. I'm just saying as a campaign minister, of course, he stands before people as ministers in his business. Though the council will settle him, equal to all other candidates, he will meet people throughout the country to meet with him in order to meet his actions in the election and to do so as a minister, even if the council wishes to take away the privilege of being a minister. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u45	V.E.G. Minister has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u46	He'll pick up his phone and answer any questions, and he'll be in the office until he's given his keys to the Ministry. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u47	Mr. President. This unexpected question period remains to be explained, since the highest. Secretary of finance has come up here and explained that the Ministers should continue to have the benefits of traveling around to the State's expense because they have to meet with voters and maintain an accounting as ministers. [[Up front.]] But don't members of Congress need to meet with voters and render an account as members of Congress? [[Up front.]] This revealed the attitude prevalent in this government throughout this terms of election with the Council, a government that approved a government covenant specifically called a political treaty for the advancement of the Generals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But the opposite has been made clear, not only by word but also by word. President and Chief. Secretary of finance to confirm that there is a distinction, that ministers will continue to travel everywhere, and likely take their fellow workers from their own ranks at the expense of the State rather than the members of Congress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u48	A respectable president. I feel that a certain debate is being made here that I have been pointing to all this terms and beyond that, as there are some members of the council that may not seem to distinguish between what is meeting and meeting for campaigns, personal meetings and so forth, and then what is included as ministers or as ministers. I think it's really easy. If there is any doubt about it, there may be some possibility that a trip is not really literally because of the work being done by a minister or a senator, then it is the other; wrapped in falling on that side, especially around elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u49	V.E.G. President. This discussion, or vote, is beginning to have some entertainment value. When we began talking about a highland park in the winter, I remembered that it spoke kindly. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask that it was just the crying smaller things that were against a highland park, which then changed into the fact that a large part of the nation was not entirely in favor of him. I think the matter is to take a bit of that course right now. It is absolutely crystal clear in my mind that this is a very double matter, to take this step this way, without clearly explaining where the rest will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u50	Mr. President. This case comes in here and actually began as a good thing, to balance the position of the candidates for election. Then it changed; of course, the matter is not to be about everyone but only those non - ministers, ending here in the halls of the Council as the most pleasant matter. Such efforts seem to be so filled with guilt. Then there will be all - out displays. The middle class has fought against this approach from the beginning. We cannot accept this issue this way until everyone is put under the same hat, which means that the ministers will be parked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u51	V.E.G. President. I can say that the city line knows how to solve this matter. But I came up to thank the highest. Secretary of finance for making clear that the concern that I and others have had since the beginning of this case is legitimate. So I reiterate that as long as this case is not completely closed, it cannot be accepted. I need to review in this context that although Minister and Ministry promise something, it may not be possible to succeed. I refer to a recent case referred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the end of last year on the promise that it would come from the government before Christmas but has not yet been observed and will not come up according to the answer given at the highest level. Secretary of finance the other day. So the minister of finance now did well to confirm our suspicions about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u52	A respectable president. This case, like many other cases, shows that there has become a great sense of distrust in this society, none of which can be trusted. I totally agree that we shouldn't be using public funds in any way to run our campaign, I can totally agree with that. But I would like to apologize for the existence of the country, that the country requires its members to have its ministers, whether it is a campaign or not. Then I'd like to ask you why. Orthodox people who come up here and are concerned about whether ministers and members of Congress are using their car grants in a campaign: are you using public budgets for political advertising, council members and other matters to prepare a case for the campaign? Why don't we just take all the money from the public political parties and let them take care of themselves, like we're supposed to do here? I think we need to be consistent with ourselves all the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u53	Mr. President. Since we are now so well equipped to have all the Ministers in the hall, it is proper to mention a point that the management board and board members will avoid being changed by this bill, which is to extend an extension to give answers to written queries. This is a stumbling block between council and Minister who must be resolved. It may not be possible that the Ministry is long enough to post questions and often inconsistencies according to the size of the responses. It came, for example. in review of the management and monitoring committees as we considered the answers of the State Department that best advise us by specifying how many hours are involved in answering each inquiry. The inquiry that took a long time to answer the previous council took a year to answer, calling for just 12 hours at the Ministry Department. So there's some conversation between the Generals and the Councillers about how we can prepare these deadlines so that questions begin to arrive at the right time here in the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u54	President. As the executive speaker of the case, I just want to thank the committee very much for your good work. We were very successful in accepting the views that were there. It's a good thing. I thank J. Sigfússon's Steingrímur, who presented it to a Senate Committee, and I thank the Parliamentary Committee for her work on the case. This means increased transparency and monitoring, increased effectiveness of the Parliament's work without permanence of the members of Congress. This step is very progressive, and I thank all who were involved in the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u55	V.E.G. President. I've supported this case. In fact, I made the notice of a committee party that I have had and still worry about how late ministers respond to queries. In fact, some of them have acted contrary to the law of Ministerhood and Congress in their efforts to keep information from the council and have taken up to two and a half years to hurt responses from some of them. Other than that, I rejoice that this subject will be considered for further discussion and will be sure to try to correct the situation. I would have liked to put some kind of penalties or such, but unfortunately, it can't be done, only a land sentence that I don't recommend. Still, it takes a glimpse of the minister and the Ministry to answer queries. I would like to direct my words to the highest. Secretary of finance for four months after two days, which is still unchanged, although 15 days are cut off.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u56	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the members of a greater part of the General and Education Committee for this bill, which includes a change in general penalties. A committee article traced the visitors to the committee and the reviews received. The point is that the 1st mg is being changed. Twenty-seven. the penalties involved in man's penal sensitivity to further improve the protection of a person's candidates and facilitate a lawsuit against those who have fallen into wrongdoing. In short, members of the Committee were positive toward the bill as it is, agreeing to increase the right protection of those who suffer from human halls. It was also found that this adjustment could be an important factor in promoting such criminal responses from the justice system. This article will include a discussion that points to, among other things, the nature of the EEA's publications. to the 2019 C.E., and it is stated that governments have produced a comprehensive policy in this area. Some are timed in that program, and others are not. This bill is an important factor in coping with this problem, but of course it is not the only action that matters in this regard. The committee's opinion discusses some of the positions of human endurance and the legal status of those who are actually the victims of this. The majority of these conclude that there is no need to add, as mentioned in the preceding discussion, the warning factor 1. The bill that the approval of violators does not affect penalties, which involves serious offenses and those who tolerate them in a very delicate position, so it is not considered to be a change in this respect. In terms of the term and the use of words in the bill, there are some articles on the work room and the engine. The adjustment is made to make provision to cover a variety of construction halls in a clearer way than at present. The majority, however, did not consider it to be a reason to expand more than what is being done with this bill of action and the terms of the arrangement, more than the bill, and refers to it. so that, as is indicated here, penalties need to be clear and reason to state that with unexplained penalties may be reducing the value of the rules involved. If you go too far to clear it or expand it, the source may become too blurred and thus become harder to apply, so changes in that direction may work against your objective. At any rate, the committee feels that this is in good shape, as the bill already is, and it also deals with other conceptual applications in this relationship but does not believe that there is a basis for a change in the bill in that respect. Under the committee of this magazine, as well as Þorsteinn Magnússon, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Sæmundsson Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdottir, Árnadóttir Enjörnnafjörn, and Þýfjörður Sóðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u57	A respectable president. We had adjustments in financial programs the other day that were dropped back, we had had them before, but they changed, even. ... abouttheenforcementofthepolitan police and employment agency for the Labour Hall. I was wondering what the trend has become since the call for extra funding to monitor the employment trader, if the committee had received some local publicity. The article does not comment on how the trend has been under way, how it has been carried out on the watch that was lacking in its time and was called on. It would be interesting to hear what the committee asked about that review.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u58	V.E.G. President. The committee did not specifically discuss financial matters in this regard, and the purpose of the bill is to clear legal documents. I have to admit, I can't answer questions. A senator in other ways than the fact that it is the battle in this field for the better to make the legal adjustments of the bill. But, hey. A senator would have to participate in other funding activities or on other grounds. That's not because I'm minimizing his comments. I'm saying that because we were in this business focusing on the regulations of the penalties and how they were being handled. We believe that with the changes in the bill, we will have stronger weapons in our hands to counteract such offenses. For other factors, I would have to answer them. A senator in more advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u59	A respectable president. I did not specifically ask about financial resources but was referring to them as a reason why there was a problem because of these issues that had been called upon for financial support in order to work on. There's always going to be food on the impact of the bill, but there's no special cost assessment involved, okay? I was asking that we want to know what the situation is in the seminary when it's being made legal, whether it's affecting the budget, and if this doesn't make things more efficient in some way. This may have a positive effect on financial authority and the like. What I'm asking you. A senator here is not a crowning figure but a position on the surveillance of a worker dealer, whether or not it has changed so that the funds I was discussing are not needed earlier, but these laws will correct this so that it will be more efficient and cost memory or something similar. It would address the concerns of those of us who were in the past so as not to monitor the workforce adequately at the police and the labour oce.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u60	Hv. A senator has to feel as he once did, and I can't answer him clearly in the way he asks. The discussions of the committee and the comments of a writer were not specifically addressed to the factors involved. On the other hand, because the legal rights and legal rights have not been clear enough, a large number of people working in this area were not able to use the equipment of the rights system properly to work on that problem. Of course, this bill is being added. About the question as a boy. A senator came along with the experience in a work room and determined whether this would reduce the need for money in that area, I would say that we need to give a special consideration to it. That opinion was not given by the Committee and was not mentioned in the guests involved. We feel, however, that such a change is most beneficial. If she saves money, I don't dare say it. I'm not going to claim that it is, but from the viewpoint of the trial and of the punishment system, the police, the prosecutors, and others involved in these cases, they feel that they are given a better legal license to respond to violations in this area. But how does that affect me? I do not trust to comment without the initial discussion on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u61	V.E.G. President. I'm happy, like most people, because it's been trying to explain the legislation in penalties and I don't talk about such a serious offense like that. The bill speaks of explanations of the man - made trade and reviews the struggles that take place at the European Council and beyond. The official's assessment of organized man - made violations is specifically discussed. I miss a little bit of not seeing the members of the greater part or the Committee merely seeing the importance of the police and those who are trying to fight the man - made hall, whether it's a job room or something else, getting more opportunities and more support to take care of their business. It's clear when you look at the reports made by the state police during the past few years, whether it's the report from 2009 or 2015, that mansal is increasing, I'm going to allow myself to put it that way. There is at least an increased problem, apparently being, and closely linked to organized crime. Although this is being explained and improving the rights of such violations, I miss that the committee did not make more of it to point out the importance of police being able to deal with the major problems that obviously follow organized crime. I'd like to ask a member of the council and the chairman of this fine case if it came up on the committee and was specifically discussed, if it wasn't right to find ways to improve police equipment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u62	Mr. President. Thoughtless thoughts. In this regard, a senator is fully justified and interesting and has been consulted on the Committee in connection with the police position and the position of the fight against organized crime. However, we had certain changes in the general law of penalties in this case, and the committee takes their stand on the committee's subject of the committee's study. But even if we do not have a general consideration for the status of all related issues in the committee opinion, this does not mean that the committee is not concerned about these factors at all. We are, however, dealing with marked legal adjustments, marked changes in public law, and taking sides with them. The committee will do this by agreeing with this prime minister. The suggestions given in the bill were given to all those working on these matters, and it is also shown in the committee's opinion that this was widely accepted. We were wondering about this from what the bill itself says. Of course, we could have written a long report on anything that we feel could be related to this matter, but we were just taking a position on a set bill. Although we do not remind ourselves of police funding or the possibility of fighting organized crime in a general sense, this does not mean in any way that there is no need to do better in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I have no idea that the committee is not concerned about organized crime and the association of such activities with human halls. What I was wondering was, had I not been discussed with these changes, which are just ahead of us. A senator must be reserved, the importance of the police getting tools and funds to fight a man - made dealer with organized crime. It doesn't matter if we explain these specific legal articles, as this is done, that, of course, we must have the tools and tools to follow it after this change works as the idea is that it does. As to this matter, I notice that there has been not much discussion, and maybe not a reason. I would have thought it was a reason for the committee - and I'm talking about the whole committee, of course, and I'm not going to make up any strange ideas about it - that I'm taking the importance of the committee to the police and those who are fighting a man-selling have the equipment, authority, capitalism, and the like. This, of course, is one of our most difficult and biggest issues today. When we're dealing with these types of cases where people are forced in some way or infiltrated into some form of forced care, forced labor, or what we call them, prostitution, we'll have to tell them regularly that in order to handle these matters, they have to follow tools and tools and resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u64	Mr. President. I agree with very many of the viewpoints presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, Sveinsson's son. Of course, it has been discussed by other teams and in association with other issues that have been discussed in the field and educational committees and have also been taken up for more than once here at the Assembly Hall. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " The particular use of increased funds has been attributed to the battle against organized crime. That fight is important and needs to be continued. It must be handled in a variety of ways. Part of the situation, of the measures we are taking to counteract organized crime, consists of this bill so that this particular factor can receive more therapeutic and better treatment in the justice system so that laws can be applied to those who violate in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u65	Mr. President. True, this case is improving, and it is long time for the serious crime of human halls. However, these measures are very limited and if they are not being carried out as part of any of the overall programme for dealing with these serious fractures, this may not be important. In a board of committees why. The General and Education Committee says, with permission of the President: ▪ In view of the ongoing efforts of the human race, the policy sheet was not set aside for a specific time, but until another is submitted. Thus actions are generally not timed but are timed for certain actions. The majority stress what is stated in the policy document that all operations are expected to be performed effectively and are regularly reviewed for improvement. All right, it's a good thought, but it just shows how limited this action really is. You wonder, then, after an almost complete term of failure to respond in a more decisive way to measures that are successful, for, immediately, during the beginning of this election period, in October 2017, a report by the State Marshal's diagnostic department, covering a wide range of organized crime in Iceland and a complete section dedicated to a man dealer. The lesson contains the heading ◯Memmering on people/Mansaledaz. Not only did the analysis department explain the extent of the problem and the danger that confronts it and when it began the election season, it was a growing problem, but the police also stressed the need for new resources, capitals, humanity, knowledge, and technology to deal with this problem. To put this into account only with the warnings published in the report and why this case does not solve the problem and is hardly a factor in its scope, I intend to quote the report only at the beginning of the section on human and manorism. It says, by permission of the president: In agreement with the information of international police personnel, most refugees who in Europe have come to receive assistance from smugglers either on part of their journey or on the whole trip. According to a 2015 European Police report on the business models of those who practice human halls and smuggling, global profits of such a business in 2015 were estimated at some 33.4 billion euro (about 488 billion dollars accelerator). . The 2017 European Police report on organized crime estimates that a growing business hall will be used by a large number of people in a more delicate position in the continent. According to the European Police Department, as many as 30,000 people associated with the attention span of 2015. During the two years since this assessment, Europe's situation has changed to the worse, among other things, because of the huge number of refugees that Europe has received, and has now come to European police assessment that about 65% of those organized gangs involved in drug trade are involved in other activities of crime, such as in trade with fake goods, man traders, and fugitives. We haven't been part of this development in Iceland. In 2019 the analysis department published a further report, and this trend had continued to grow to a worse end because it must be determined by the problem in order to handle it reasonably. So the report continues: Achieving that foreign smug rings have Iceland as their destination People are quick to adapt their activities to their individual situation. The safety of refugees is often offered for increased profits and to reduce the risk of exposure. In part of the cases reported in Europe, refugees have been known to have been forced to engage in crime or to be employed in ◯ black jobs to pay off their debt to smugglers. This conflicts with the information of the United Nations institutions, which report in September 2017 that young people are demanded at an hour of some 800 to4,000 euros (100,500,000). for transport across the Mediterranean into Europe. So when the people reach their destination, they are in debt to smugglers. The debt was a huge collection of smugglers. Police believe that Iceland is the home for the man-salt, and especially looks to construction halls, restaurants, and tourism. In line with the nature of the fractures, few charges come into this category, but they have little prophetic value for the scope of the operation. The experience from abroad shows that victims are not the only ones who go to the police. Based mainly on information and indications, but not on charges, the police assessment This, in fact, lies ahead of us. The problem, Mr. President, raises questions about how useful this other fine case will be if the bigger picture is not viewed and the overall action is under way. It is of particular interest, of course, that the Icelandic government is now planning to make changes in the security systems that have fallen to make crime groups easier to abuse it, at the same time as other North countries, in particular the Danish government, are going the opposite direction, especially with the feeling that Denmark does not want to be a destination for smuggling people, and therefore should be directed directly to all in the safe legal way, i.e. ... throughanarchysystem. At the same time, the Icelandic government goes in the opposite direction. In effect, by ensuring all the same services and budgetary workers, people are being encouraged to take up the criminal ventures that, as noted above, are aware of the rules and suggestions to collect from the people in many cases, but as noted above, more of the ones that come to Europe as trustmakers on the roads of these smugglers. The report further says, with the permission of a president: ▪ An illegal transport and smuggling of people are involved in organized criminal organizations. In many European countries, there is an increasing number of people in this area who work across the border. The police - and this refers to the Icelandic police - have learned that foreign citizens have been brought to the country in an organized way. For example, in 2016 - i.e. The year before the report appeared - ◯ came four stowaways with Norwegian and applied for international protection. They said they paid non-named sources in Denmark 2,000 euros to smuggle them on board the ferry in Hirsthals. The scope of illegal migration and smuggling, however, is unknown. The increasing number of participants smuggled into the country each year is exposed to increased initiative care. The police have not been given the opportunity to engage in this initiative law four years later, so the scope remains unknown. Next, we're going to say: In Europe and in other countries, criminal organizations are familiar with a legal/official system for their activities. This may refer to reform systems, employment services, and the welcome of refugees and candidates for international protection. In fact, in several places in the report, the abuse of this system is being done, and it is strange that there is a relatively insignificant case here on this great problem at the time when the government presents a case that has fallen to facilitate this crime. Examples include the following examples. For Iceland, and also stated that there are frequent contact with these foreign crime groups. In fact, in the years since publication of this report, it has been reported that these Icelandic contacts can be very extensive in planning and selling trips to Iceland through their contacts abroad, the foreign criminal gangs. So says: In accordance with available information, police intervention suggests that in some cases groups applying for international protection have coordinated their reports and responses to the authorities. Clearly, these individuals have received information or training on how to react in Iceland. For example, the person may present a single photo of passports or no documents at all, thus hiding possible personal information and a suitable passport. This allows the person to keep free and to leave the country when they choose while they are applying for international protection. Such cases of consistent narratives in order to cheat on the reception system have also occurred in the north, such as Denmark. The figures of the Foreign Institute on Results of All Deals indicate that many non-profit applications for international protection are often submitted. In this report and in the 2019 report, police reports on how these systems are abused have often been used, and in this way they often show great mentality, but most of all, they monitor the development of the system locally and adapt to, play on, while there is no law enforcement to respond with sufficient force. ▪ Track on the border, preferably on the other side. In the hands of government policies [...] to repeat this sentence, Mr. President, because it is a key element in this policy -- a cross-border principle, including. In the case of each government's policies and standards, it is important that we do so. This should be an obvious truth, but the subject of another matter has been discussed in the past. Yet, this is one of the basic factors in dealing with these matters intelligently, that it is understood that local government decisions and that their conduct affect decision making, including the decision - making process. The criminal gangs that specialize in people's attentions. As a result of this change of policy in the other North countries and the messages they have sent from their countries, the appeal has been reduced as long as the message expressed by the Icelandic government has soared to the point that it is about six times higher than in Norway and Denmark. ▪ The factors that encourage circuits to travel to Europe are referred to in this report as "Plull factor." Among such factors are employment opportunities, freedom, well - known social planning, and general expectations for better prospects in new homes. The implementation of the European government policy has fallen before the United States to increase the force of attraction to Iceland as its destination for European circuits in search of a better standard of living. The recent government's policies have fallen to increase Iceland's attraction as its destination. When this was pointed out during the discussions at the council, many did not appreciate it. But, of course, it's a fact, as revealed even. In this report, the direction of the European government in recent years has added appeal. Foreign gangs have increasingly sold Iceland as their destination, including by moving in part of the way or everyone, selling them expectations but then putting them in forced labor to settle debts. In fact, it is proper to state, Mr. President, as the report says: It was a step towards the legal environment in the other North countries, with a law code on foreigners, No. 540/2017 of 29 May 2017 and a Regulation for the Change in Regulation on Foreign Regulations 775/2017 These are regulations that exist at that time as Justice Minister. paritaprevir Sigríður on. Andersen set and had considerable influence. It was only another message from Iceland, and it had an immediate effect, especially on people from two countries. But since then, the government, as I mentioned, has become a complete reversal, now moving exactly the other way, and from the North countries in this regard. Since the translation of these changes, the number of people applying for international protection [...] is significantly altered, as was the case with me, and this has affected gravity, which is now being said to increase gravity. In 2016, Iceland also had a significant increase in the number of fighting and tension groups. While this trend is likely to continue, it should be borne in mind the great reduction in the number of refugees searched for Europe in 2016. There may be strong guidelines for Europe's trustrs and increased emphasis on the mobilization of traveling people, which could lead to further stress on the Iceland border. Is it an example of an external pressure (Push factor). This has also been a significant discussion, i.e. the external pressures in which other North countries are changing their rule of action at the same time as Iceland goes in the opposite direction. And so this goes on, Mr. President. I see I don't have time to trace all the important points I'd like to refer to the report, but I'm going to take a little more out here. It says: There are no cases of international protection from these countries as soon as possible to return to Iceland after being denied protection and being escorted out of the country. So although men have been denied protection and have received a police escort from a country where almost three police officers have to follow each other, there are many examples of a return immediately. So in some cases, an organized misuse of the international protection system in Iceland is being observed. An example is known to be the location of the person who uses a biases or activities during the course of the application. Following rejection, the subject returns to the correct conditions and without applying for asylum and returns to its former activities. In this way, organized gangs can benefit from the international protection system here. In this report, there are many examples that point to the importance of the welcome of lovers and how they are abused and the importance of correcting them. That is why it is totally incomprehensible that the government is now choosing to go in the opposite direction and at the same time the rest of the North countries are working out there. And to whom does this come first? This affects the people who need international protection most of all in need of help. Building a system that makes it easier for criminal gangs to abuse it will cause the most harm to those who need help and deserve help and make it easier for us to assist them. It is, as I mentioned earlier, the core of logical reasoning to form a dance force of peers for a changed policy in a country where people are directed from the security sector and in the safe, legal, capitalist system, contrary to what the Icelandic government is doing here. A matter like this, yes, in spite of all positive things, but we expect it to have a limited effect if we don't look at the bigger picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Many good things were shown in it, especially since he quoted official reports on the situation in this regard. However, I wanted to thank him especially for what was stated at the end of his case, i.e. that this case deals with a particular change in universal penal law to make it easier for those in the justice system to deal with the mansala. Mansal is a part of organized crime, and it is important to work against it. It is also important to exercise caution and direction in the field of foreigners. This bill only helps fight a crime related to it. That's why I'm glad to hear it. A senator and others in the council have taken this matter to heart and are willing to support it, as far as it will go, will help us to do the work we want to do in this regard. Then, when we discuss other matters here at the council, we can discuss other aspects of alienism and another aspect of real conflict with crime, but this, as far as it goes, helps us to cope with this struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u67	Mr. President. I'm not beinglittled that this is a positive matter. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson admits that this is, of course, a limited matter in the fight with the serious crime of human hall. However, in order for such measures as those presented in this case to be successful, it is important to put them in line with the overall subject and other measures that are then involved in the struggle with this, as well as many other factors. That's how you make the best system. It makes you more likely to get results if it's all in your hands. That is why I feel somewhat strange that such a limited case is presented, despite being positive, certainly positive, after four years, after a four - year report by the State Marshal's Intelligence Department has been available for four years, in which the overall context is explained, including how gangs abuse the security system. Even more strange is the fact that while we're discussing this matter, this limited reaction, let's include in the discussion another case designed to make criminal gangs easier to take advantage of the justice system in Iceland and, as I mentioned in my speech, in particular, in view of the fact that other North countries are going the opposite direction to direct refugees, refugees, into the capitalist system, the safe legal route.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u68	Mr. President. I think I have to disagree a little bit more with this answer. A senator whose speech is mentioned earlier because I feel that a certain misunderstanding might arise. Let us now be misunderstandings regarding the Importer's bill, which is on the program later today, and hopefully we will soon have the opportunity to address a more effective discussion. I think there's an understanding. A senator makes such an issue out of the question itself. But let it be. The other thing I wanted to make a comment to, and to state I admit it. A senator is right about much about the problem we face. A senator comes here and argues that this bill, this particular bill, regarding certain changes in the general law of law, is all that has been done to deal with the problems approved and has been for many years in organized crime. It's not a fair description in my opinion and it seems like it is. A senator has missed the discussion that took place here a few weeks ago in which there were detailed operations, both financial expenditures, special funds, extra funds, altered police planning, and a number of other activities that have been done to help police authorities here to deal with organized crime. It's a little puzzle in the bigger picture, but it's a big piece of paper, this bill, but that doesn't mean there wasn't a lot of work in this case, though no doubt we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u69	Mr. President. I'm not saying that this is the only thing that has come from the government, but it's a matter to be involved in dealing with an extremely serious problem, presented now at the end of an elected period without the context of the overall problem. I remember the discussion as a matter of course. A senator referred to the highest. The minister of justice answered the struggle with organized crime, so I asked for that discussion, and that is why it was held. There the minister's case showed that there was an increased consultation between the police office in Iceland. It referred to international regulations on the use of money and the funding of terrorism, as well as to suggest that the Icelandic police had received funding because of their involvement in activities that were relegated to a considerable amount of money from foreign crime rings and part of it enjoyed the Icelandic police. But there are very few indications to be faced, as the appeals published in state police reports on human resources, capital, knowledge, technology, sources, etc. There is a great need for the government to do that. For a remark by which each will comment. You have heard this from the majority when a senator is trying to get in the way of some questionable issues, but in the course of the day, the misunderstanding, if it exists, lies on their side. In this particular case, the highest levels of trust are found. Secretary of the budget and what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son to form, in fact, under the spoken language of our Middle Class. [[The president calls.]] But what do they do next? [[The president calls.]] They show up at the conference room and press the green button.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u70	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and express myself on this subject, especially for the reason that I am not among the members of the council who are written for this committee party. However, it did not involve any material opposition to this matter. Rather, it simply came about in that I went through a meeting that led to the consequences. I attended a second meeting on this matter and started with the opinion that there are reasons to interpolate the issues of this arrangement, 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a general penal law. Of course, this is not the case with legalizing or putting new laws on human halls. They already were. But I will now make myself known, the police and the courts, the courts, the better and the sharper instruments, to deal with these specific transgressions in this matter. Hv. In his talk, a manager, Ármannsson, conducted a fine study of the work. I agree that the guests who came before the committee to discuss the matter were generally positive to these specific changes. As I said, it was a law that needed a little support. Sometimes it has been said that the threshold set in this law was too high, so it would have prevented the police from accessing these tests. Of course, it is always good to peer from the viewpoints of people who know each other. Looks like we did pretty good here. The goal was to increase the justice of those who face the human race. It'll be even. Do so by providing the right options for those organizations to handle such offenses. However, it is this way, and perhaps it is the lawyer's capital sin to say so, that the law alone will not do much. This will not be the outcome if the infrastructure is not strong in this regard. In this context, I would like to mention that there is the Icelandic reality associated with human halls in terms of the justice system that there are few and few. The last time I knew, one judgment had fallen, since men were condemned for human halls. This is not because the courts are in the grave and are determined to justify these offenses. But for some reason, there are few charges, and then, of course, we need to ask, "What is it? " Could it be that Iceland is completely free of these violations? I don't think it's any fun to answer it here right away that, of course, it's not like that. So there is something more to come about, but just that legislation is strengthened and improved, without my wanting to belittle the fact that it is done, is certainly an important step and helps in reaching out for these violations. Mansal I believe that the front of a general talk was linked to a so - called sex hall, which may be an unfortunate word, or prostitution, and the sex industry. However, there are many species and many manifestations of these fragments, and a job hall is growing, I think, in growing numbers, getting public attention as a real problem in Iceland. It is also true in our present discussion that this category of offenses is determined by its tolerance, and not just for Iceland, are usually in the weak and delicate position that they do not personally consult the authorities, only to a very limited degree. They may consult other institutions with other problems, so it is important that those who work directly and indirectly on these issues have knowledge and read of them when they see them. It is important that the police are in the position that they can take part in this, that they are in the position of talking to people, building up relationships to meet positions, and to meet the reality of victims. I'd also like to mention public responsibility, because when we're talking e.g. Of work halls, it's all of us to analyze how consumers are in our daily lives, how we shop for what we are. What do we know? What do people know about their authority? What do we know about people who are coming to work for us or to build for us? So, what do we know about the people who clean up the companies we're working for, that's how we shed the office, and so on.? Today's consumers are very conscious; aware of the origin of the product, the food we buy, under what circumstances the cook is made or cultivated, etc., but I often feel that the part is a little lacking in the conversation that we as responsible consumers are also responsible for examining the quality of the people who produce the product or who provide the service we are buying. My message here is, law is good. It is essential for our success in this struggle, but it is not sufficient, for it is a good law that must follow a general policy and a targeted focus on government at any given time, on the part of a minister at any given time. I'm not going to stand here and say that the system in Iceland hasn't done anything. I'm simply pointing out that there's some big step that leads to the failure to control these violations in a way that leads to accusations and judgments. In this regard, I would like to mention that public law enforcement and more specialized research are at hand in this regard. Both components must be strong, and both components need to work together to achieve success. I'm concerned in this context because we've been talking for several times here, including... a term of treatment in the justice system in general. And now there is a situation within the police, which in itself has also been under discussion for a long time without being very much followed by the governments now ruling. This wait - for - to - day culture of the present government is not out of the question. I have found that there is a tendency here to sharpen certain requirements from time to time without following a whole course of consistent focus. In fact, this will be the next issue on a program in which temporary action is being provided, for even behind bars on the watch of this government. Judgments are growing, and I now have certain actions that I have, in itself, sympathy for, which are, of course, a direct consequence of this government's criminal policies. At the end, I'd like to mention that when it comes to a man-selling, we also have to look in order to see that there is a gross violation against the offenders. These are gross and serious offenses against violations in these matters. However, this is the case, e.g. with the Labour Hall it is an enormous social cost of the fractions to form how this affects the competition between enterprises which act on the set rules and laws and those who do not. As a result, taxes and fees do not reach the State in accordance with laws and regulations, so the manifestations and consequences of these fragments are widespread and affect all of us. So my final messages are that in addition to the good changes that are being made on the subjects of the man - made sale, it is my wish and my hope that there is a more specific step toward a minister in the case of such crimes, with the objective of bringing them up onto the surface, toward daylight, and that those responsible for them are accountable in accordance with the requirements here. The strong warning effect is that such offenders have the impression that doing so will have consequences. Sadly, that is not quite the experience today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and can agree with the points presented there. As in answer to what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, I think it may be right to say that while the bill on this subject is certainly important as far as it goes, it does not involve the complete solution of all the problems we face in this regard. This is part of the solution. By changing the dosages of 227 p.m. par. a legal law on human halls in the way this is done is to try to achieve a twofold objective, one to improve the state of violations, and the other to ease a lawsuit against those who are suspected of such offenses. So while this and indeed no big deal will bring up the overall solution to the problem, this is an important issue. Because of what? In his speech, a senator specifically mentioned how few cases were brought under charge and led to the court. It was among the indications that the bill is submitted, that with changes in general penalties, the police and the charge of further weapons could be offered to the police in this regard so that it would be easier for them to establish laws against those who truly violate in this way. Then, of course, we're working on a variety of measures based on policy measures, which were last replaced in 2019, on human anti-employment measures. This is just part of that work, an important part, but, as I mentioned above, of course, does not involve the overall solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. To make it perfectly clear, and I thought I actually said it clearly, I rejoice in this change and believe it is of the good. I was simply pointing to the reality and situation that we are facing, which is the fact that these issues seem to exist until now. as with many other offenses, victims have not come to the surface in such a way that they go to the police. I know, for example. that workaholics and the police have been on projects where they are attending home. That work is very important. However, it remains to interfere with these tests when the baseline point in the study is not that there is history and history of the fracture tolerance. The second point is he whom I spoke, that this has led to that even. that this series of charges is negligible. I think the law will help, certainly because there's the prosecution and the police have more sharp weapons and tools in their hands. But I worry that the results may be less than expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u73	Mr. President. I will just agree that this law alone does not change the overall picture. It matters as far as it goes. Of course, it must be kept in mind that institutions that have a role in this area are well - financed and have other circumstances to work on. This can be considered in a very broad context, saying that all institutions in this field need to be developed. I'm not saying that I think it's important. Of course, we need to ask ourselves, " How is money spent? ' It has been observed here at the council that changing the priorities of the police, at least to the point of making this case more space. It is hoped that it will produce results as a result of such a change of law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u74	V.E.G. President. Looks like what I'm talking about. A senator would agree completely that the change is good, and before me, it was simply a good thing as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u75	Mr. President. We'll discuss some serious stuff here. However, human hall is a complex and complex violation of human rights, which the international community has blessed with trying to survive and stop from the year 2000 when the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the important agreement against international, organized crime, which Iceland did not fully confirm until ten years later. The battle against man-selling has also taken place and has been very major in the field of the European Council, and it actually takes off when the European Council's contract, since 2000, of action against the trader, was submitted on May 16, 2005, and was signed by Iceland on the same day. However, it took seven years for the contract to be validated. Although Iceland has accepted this important international agreement, No. 227 in Common Judicial Judicial Laws, No. 19/190, have been extremely smallly converted to action. And it is really quite remarkable that only three human cases have been brought to justice, all of which were accused of sexual abuse or prostitution. The examples so far have shown that human halls have been largely seen in the form of a sex room but also in a business hall, with more attention being given to the activities of human halls in the country since 2015 as a work hall was being looked at in the report of a state police office, and the manifestations of a job room in the construction industry, catering business, and tourism, as well as for carriers on narcotics. Then there is the unbreakable bond of organized crime and prostitution, driven by a man - made dealer. This is to support the recent risk assessment report by State Marshals since May 2018, which states that organized prostitution has increased substantially in this country, that part of it has to do with the very organized activities of foreign crime groups, and that there is evidence that people, foreign citizens, are being brought in an organized way to the country for human rights and misplacement. Behind these clues and reports are real human life, flesh and blood, who are under the refuge of organized crime, criminal gangs that meddle with life and the fate of people in a horrible way. Mr. President. I would like to mention some factors in particular: First, the fact that every year thousands of children are victims of human halls. They use man - made sales in their own country, or they move from country to country, in order to be used or used in violence, whether in an illegal adoption, to make use of these organs, or to operate illegal jobs and employment halls. They are designed to beg and steal, but what is the blackest and cruelest of all is when children are victims of human halls, used for sexual purposes, and resorted to horrible sexual abuse. Therefore, children's post needs, e.g. as children who are refugees or children who are immigrants, always being secondary when such issues arise. The important thing is that children are man-sales tolerated. I'd like to agree with the children's report that highlights their review of the establishment of the human rights centre that was expected to be completed in 2020, which is emphasized by the government in human operations and other forms of practical use. I also agree to the children's tip about the implementation of a European Commission in an analysis of children who are suspected to be candidates and the preparation of the guidance and procedure for professional personnel who work with children when it is suspected that a child will be tolerated. Mr. President, this needs to be done right away. Second, I'd like to point out that despite today's bill that being an important step in the right direction could have used the approach to stop, because I referred to the interaction of human halls and prostitution and organized crime, the need to be well instructed and trained at all levels of law enforcement and in the justice system when it comes to alleged acts of adultery. They need to be assured, and they might have been a good thing to do better in the bill itself. I would also like to refer to the surveillance of the GREA expert team of European Parliaments on bilingual action against Iceland in 2012 and March 2019. That same year a national report was published on Iceland. In this report, the second, it was particularly critical that there should not be specifically a forced marriage, a forced belt, or a forced violation in Icelandic human law. Special attention should be given to these indications of the GREA team in the bill but may have been more explicit. I would also like to use this opportunity here to talk about the punishment of those who use human traders, when it comes to crime, dodoing. I wonder, Mr. President, if they need to be reinforced, i.e. making changes even clearer when it comes to the punishment done. I simply wondered if there is enough to be done in this bill to go straight, though, and I reiterate it, if it is a very good step in this bill. I also wondered if there is enough to be done when it comes to a man's wrath and the criminal element in it. In relation to this, I would like to mention one thing. The majority of the international and educational committees refer to the clearness of penalties, but the committee does not consider it to be a reason to clear up the directives, but now it is important to observe the procedure and development of the human room so that the directive serves its purpose. I'm just wondering if it could've stepped harder on the ground. I'm not going to have this long speech, but I don't think we can do anything else when we discuss this important bill here, but we're discussing funding to the police to the department and police department involved in the trades and prostitution and organized crime. We senators and I have consistently talked about the lack of extra money for the police, and I think it's time to do well and carefully with this part of the police, i.e. to increase the amount of money and to strengthen the resources needed to cope with this serious offense because we have seen an increase there. And reports, research, and statistics show that there has been an increase in these sectors of crime and that law enforcement may not have enough tools and tools to monitor as a workroom increases. This aspect of criminal activity has increased in scope. It is quite true to say that in the condition of the pandemic, when tourism grew in the unsuspecting way that it did, these components were truly the growth pain in the insuficient growth and a black spot on the growth of the fine branches. In that brain, I think the law bill we're dealing with today is a good step. They could have used the trip to sharpen certain things more fully. But I hope we agree to support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u76	President. I responded to a storyteller who was a little worried about the cost. The bill, chapter 6, discusses the effects. It says, by permission of the president: It will be assumed that there will be a greater number of persons in a police study and that there will be progress within the justice system, which will result in an increase in the costs of the police and the prosecutions than this cost is expected to be extended within the framework of the segregations. I see it all the time, and I scratch my head. When I ask a financial committee what a public job is, I get the answers: we have no idea, it's not classified, we don't have a summary of this. A few of the budgets since, 2020 reminds me, Pirantar suggested extra workforces to the police, to these persons, within the legal court system, with the police, in order to have room to deal with the increase. It was rejected, and the same suggestions were again rejected in a financial program now for a weekend. Even so, it has not been possible to explain how more projects fit within the frameworks of the languages. Either this means that there is something else being set away, not some other job, while it is clearly unnecessary, or the number of problems is simply large that there is money already. We're almost there, e.g. Reports from the police that just reached an agreement with the Ministry of Justice about 900 million due to abbreviated work week. It's a lot more capital, but it's clearly spaced within the bounds of the segregation. These costs are somewhere, however much to cope with greater challenges. How many more projects are expected? I don't see any assessment on the bill or on the committee opinion. A man would think the General would ask himself that question, for example. Yeah. A global and educational committee, on the scope of the problem, however serious the problem we are dealing with, and then, as it is to be done under the civil law, that the council would cost the solution. Now this solution is just very good, very necessary to make these changes, and I take my whole mind under it. At the same time, though, I don't want the check in later, saying: "Yes, this cost 200 million extra, best to finance it afterwards. It was not even an attempt to make a costly estimate of this assignment that I feel is irresponsible. That is so, especially in this situation now, since we are scratching each dollar to cover the epidemic and the situation there. You can be relaxed about this and say that it's only gonna come out later on and see how much it's gonna cost. But that's exactly the attitude that has led us to the point where this is in the framework of the group, that it will just get later, the Icelandic view that this is going to work out, here is never the attitude of planning for the future, maybe having a little perspective. When we have an estimate of the extent of the event, we may be shocked to ask ourselves, " How can this cost so much?'Or to think that it is a wonderful solution that doesn't cost us anything. This solution is clearly great, and it costs nothing and depends on the party, but we have no idea if it's true or not. When we receive cost analysis that a project is a small price of 200 million, is that a normal price for this solution, or can it be done more effectively? Is it necessary to consider any other law or principle in this category in order to make it more efficient? We don't know, because it's not an analysis, as always. We have to get out of this tradition. This motto for us Icelanders, it'll work out as great as it's in chapters, not when we're trying to control public money in some way. Not only may it be possible, for we have the problem that when we ask what the benefits of operating the Blood Bank are, the answer is: I don't know. It's really weird. Of course, we want to run a blood bank, and it is necessary to perform a service that surely costs quite little in view of importance. But it's very strange that we don't know. This applies to all the work of the government that we choose here by law. We receive legal bills at a council that give people certain rights, define a particular service that we as a community are prepared to ensure. To this end, we add taxes, not to finance the ministry, i.e. to economic government as such, but it affects the economy to set the laws of services and rights that people have access to. It must be handled in a clear way by bringing it to the Generals and showing what is expected of these privileges and services. It must be done. There's a reason we put it in the law: so that the executive authority, which is separate from the legislature and the financial authority, will give it to us. If we don't get it, we're giving up the budget to the Commission. I feel a little bit like we're in that position. It is up to you to determine if the Parliament's sources are consulted for financing. For example, the budget bill was not to be brought here at first, it was to be reported, it was to be moved, etc., so I'll take care of it. There is exactly the sale of the budget to the Commission that needs to explain why its use in public funds is good for the use of public funds. In this matter, it is certainly a good use of public funds to ensure these rights. However, a basic question is that we learn the scope of the matter because the scope of it can create better solutions. Maybe there's no better solution in this case, I'm talking about the general notes in this regard. Without analysis of the scope, we can never say, "Hey, wait a minute, can you do this in any better way? ' It's a passage through all the work I've been doing here, I've been on a budget, it's what both sides of the council are doing, and so are the people, for when these programs are submitted to the council, they'll be turning around. It's a white view of why people are actually paying taxes to keep their economy in order. It is fundamental that we do not allow the project to get away with saying that something is in the frame of the jury without explaining why. I would like the committee to get a memo on this, perhaps between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u77	Mr. President. We'll discuss something very important here. Of course, I welcome the changes proposed in this bill that will strengthen 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a general penal law. This change is more in harmony with international agreements that have the goal of combating organized violations, especially by man - made dealers as we are considering, and long ago it is time to set up a law like this in penalties. I have to say, I don't think the government has done a good job of responding to what was known. In 2019 a report, as quoted above, was conducted that specifically discussed this and the case of organized crime. The report was made by the State Marshal's diagnostic department, as noted in this discussion. It was May 2019, and now we are two years later in the process of trying to cope with this by law. I just think it's way too long. I don't think the government has done enough of it in responding to the terrible behaviour, if you let me put it that way, which is man-seller. It is interesting to consider the 2010 State Marshal's report on man room, with information and the police procedure. It contains examples of activities in which human hallsal may be on a journey that tells us that we need to be very alert as citizens in this country where human halls can be found. It can be very widely read and has increased in recent years. Well, one of the reasons is that it has become far more of the candidates for international protection than it has been. It has also been shown by the State Marshal, his research project, that the security system or the system we have on international protection at the time of the man trade. It is interesting to consider examples of activities in which human activities may be involved, as the 2010 State Marshal's report says. It says that human tolerance can be located all over the country, far from being confined to the capital area or to urban areas in general. I have to say for myself that I actually thought this was isolated from urban areas and capital areas. Clearly, it is not that which tells us that we truly need to be aware of this. So says the report: ▪ Involvement and slavery can be experienced by those who tolerate it by various means. So here is a list of activities that may be where human tolerance is in place. The report also says that the art is by no means exhaustive. There's street prostitution, clubs and massage rooms and hotels, and so on. and the production of pornography and the production of child pornography. Then there are organized marriages, forced marriages, household services, child - care, family business, restaurant jobs, cleaning companies, car repair shops, concrete work, larceny, farming and construction, farming, street sales, stealing, and other capital offenses, production, and distribution of drugs and organ systems. All of this is where the manal may be going. It's incredibly wide, and it tells us that it's far more widespread than I think most people realize. Therefore, it is vital that we take this matter seriously. This is where the law is being added. According to Amnesty International's review of the bill, by permission of a president: Then the department agrees with the Commission's comments on how it is clearly taken care of, in accordance with Article 3. b. The Palermo Account and Article four. b. The European Parliament's Convention on Human Relations, the approval of a victim of human hall, has no effect on responsibility if the methods listed as the a-involvement of both decisions are used. This is important because victims of human halls often find it very difficult to express themselves and admit what is going on and simply do not dare because they are simply threatened with beatings and executions if they admit that they are victims of human halls. Then there's a fine piece of information from the Red Cross. The Red Cross welcomes this bill and believes that the changes are meant to increase the right protection of people who are being dealt with, especially by the groups mentioned in the bill, including candidates for international protection. I'm only going to stop because it's once so, and it's been shown in this discussion, and we in the Central Party have identified it, and it's confirmed by the Ministry of Justice, that the legislation here on international protection is weaker than in the countries around us, in Scandinavia, and elsewhere in Europe. This is an excellent service when it comes to receiving those who apply for international protection. Of course, all of this plays together so that those who are the cause of these things will take advantage of the system, of course. This is certainly one of the easiest ways to try to get people into the country, which is then the victims of human halls, which comes here on other grounds. And then the workers use the weak conditions the people find themselves in. How we need to be on guard! We've talked a lot about taking these matters into account, that the setting here will be consistent with what is, for example. Other parts of the North. It is perfectly normal to do so. In fact, there have been varied responses, including Here at the Assembly Hall, and we in the Central Party have been accused of going through a hard line on these topics. It's not like that. It's about the system not being abused, and we should, of course, look at it as we do with our other systems. There should be nothing wrong with talking about abuse of the system, whether it is the social security system or the security system, etc. However, when you start to talk about the security element in this context, you may even find yourself talking about the rest of the world. Many members of the council and social media each in a terrible defense that they must not change anything at all, and they should rather open it even further. It is only natural, and, of course, members of Congress are also to participate in a discussion about what can be added to the system, including when it is due to the budget. How do we make the most of our money? I've been speaking about the fact that we're supposed to place more money on the institutions that help people in their area, the United Nations organization, because we're making much more money there than we're doing there at home. For example, the United Nations Department of Refugees for Palestinians, U.S.A. published that approximately One person who is helped in the Western world has 1,2115 individuals in it. We see that there is a much better use of funds, so to speak, to help people in their area. Most of those who come from war - torn lands want to return to their homes when the conflict ends and then want to be relatively close to their homeland. I have experienced this in my own life after working in this field, and I know it quite well. We need to examine all of this in this context, to shut down the ways that can and are clearly opening more here than we have seen in the past when it is time for a human dealer, i.e. how people come into the country. How important it is to review the issues and perfectly natural that we have the same rule as the other countries of the North. They know this party much better than we do, and they have much more experience with it, such as. Sweden and Denmark These countries are intensifying their rules because the system has been abused there. So at the end, here in the review of the Red Cross, I continue with it, that they believe that these are taking steps in the right direction to promote the right protection of those who are subject to the human race and that they are responsible for their offenses. I'm saying this is a step in the right direction. Surely I would have wanted to see that this step had been taken much earlier. It is written by the government that they have not responded better to what has been known for a long time and have been reported in police reports. Mr. President. I'm just going to step aside to something else with the manal. We are a nation who wants to succeed internationally and who supports other developing countries. There, in particular, our cooperation countries are in Malawi and Uganda. Then we have cooperative countries where energy efficiency and fishing are involved, such as Liberia and Sierra Leone. We are expanding our donations for developing cooperation, and that is well done. I'd like to, um... 5 billion on these budgets are developing. It leaves e.g. this year approximately 700 million direct to Malawi in developing cooperation, I recall. All these countries have in common that there is a particular human hall. Children's marriages are common there, as well as mutilation of women's genitals. We have something to do with the cooperation of these countries to pick up with politicians and rulers in these countries and ask what they are doing to eliminate it, which is a challenge to describe it. It's so tragic to see it, and I can say here that in my former jobs, I once looked in the eyes of a 13 - year - old girl who was married to a man who was about 70 years old. It took me quite a while to see it. We must use ourselves as a nation against the corruption of a child's marriage and mutilation of women's genitals. Malawi contains e.g. about 46% of girls married before 18 and 10% before 15 years of age. The same is true of Uganda. That's about it. 10% of girls who are married before they are 15 and 40% before they're 18. That's exactly what I read about a 10-year-old girl who married a 50-year-old man. She fled that marriage and then fought against child - couple ties and has become known in Uganda. Liberia has one of the highest proportions when it comes to mutilation of women's genitals. About 50% of all girls in Liberia have been mutilated by their genital organs. It's just very rich in Liberia's culture, and the numbers are slightly lower in Sierra Leone. These are all our partners in developing cooperation, and we are to put pressure on them to deal with these issues. When it comes to financing, things may begin to move. Personally, I would require funding to these countries, now I'm just talking to myself, so people can see results, that these governments will prove to be effective in fighting women's baby bond and mutilation. We have every opportunity to record this at the scene of these countries. We're here to meet, our agents in development; the Foreign Minister and Ministry are to meet regularly with the officials of these countries and ask them what they are doing in removing mansales in their lands, as well as about baby marriages and violence, and all the details of girls' sexual mutilation. In Malawi, there has been a ceremony or a publication that has proposed sexual cleansing. It is a literature that is common in Malawi, and it sees that girls'children are raped by older men. This is so pathetic, Mr. President, that you can hardly talk about it. But we can do good in these things and should do so, as I traced them here. We put a lot of money on this party and on to these countries, and we've done a lot of good things, and we have good staff out there that's done great work. Of course, education is a major factor in all of this, education to those who have children and those who come to decision when it comes to administration and such. In Malawi, children's marriages were banned in 2015, but this was only a compromise because it is very difficult to do so because governments do not follow up on it. Then, in my opinion, it is our responsibility to follow through on this. We brought money into these countries. We are helping the local governments and the people and, of course, want to know how they are going to eliminate this shame on these communities. Mr. President. I thought it'd be right to enter this case because it's a real man-selling thing and it's all about what we can do to root it out. I welcome this change of law. However, other cases related to this also need to be cleaned up, such as. When it comes to our system of international protection. Finally, I say that I really hope that when it comes to presenting it in foreign fields, we will be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u78	Mr. President. I come up here especially because I have a seat. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and I'll sign a commission and I'll be rooting for this bill. It's a good thing, it's getting better people in the middle of the man's room, and it's an easy lawsuit. It's very important. This is in line with international agreements against organized crime and human trafficking, such as the United Nations Treaty against international organized crime that is attributed to Palermo and his supplementation, the Palermo Protocol, to eliminate human halls, especially women and children. Mankind is on the move, and it has been since the last century, and it is not without its end. Perhaps it is just beginning, and people lose their homes, and people turn around and people run between countries, and people naturally try to find shelter. People are running from war. They're fleeing from bad government practices, they're fleeing from natural disasters, they're fleeing from tyranny, they're fleeing from poverty and distress, and they're fleeing from a climate disaster. But now, Mr. President, as we know, with continued apathy for the climate threat, that large areas of the world will be completely uninhabitable, signifying once again that a large number of people are being blown up from their homes, are on the streets, and become refugees, will become refugees, and thus be exposed to the kind of crime we are dealing with. Our reactions include: by law of the kind we're putting here. Our response cannot be centered on shutting and denying. We cannot follow the ostrich's example and put our head in the sand. We have to face this problem, we need to deal with it, and we need to create a legal environment in this country that people who are fleeing, people in a delicate position, can have shelter in the law, because these laws are really not about the state of the world but about our society, how we want our community to be here, what people like to be. As we know, life has many aspects. One of the most ugly aspects of human life is the fact that there are people who like it and even justify themselves using the needs of others. They can make use of the plight of others in various ways; by paying low wages or by making slaves. In fact, the way things are handled in these laws is no better than slavery, and it is a modern form of slavery. This is health issue. It is a matter of healthy human life that can never exist as long as slavery is passed on in the community. A healthy human life is also about making agreements between purchases and terms, the natural payment for employment, and the agreements made on an equal basis. Mansal is opposition to all of this. It is a matter of sexual inexhaustration, and it is difficult to think more of a healthy relationship than is sexual inexhaustration. But it's also about healthy employment. It is also about the healthy competitive environment of an enterprise, that companies can compete on natural and healthy ground but will not be able to get away with subsidies for various tasks by making payable to workers and to those who are employed with an abnormally low salary, less pay than contracts. It would have been desirable for such laws, which are, in fact, a sort of refinement work in the Icelandic legal and professional environment, to have followed a law passed on in so - called biographies at the time, and both the labor movement and the professional team had the expectation of going on here at the council, but unfortunately, they ended up in the Senate's activities and became a landmark, because I feel that this is closely related to it. Companies who play the ugly game of paying their workers too little pay, pay under point, and have even found that a similar activity at least Workaholics, have also found that practicing what has been taught about social security and such violations of a job market, which is certainly intolerable for all people who are trying to practice normal, healthy business practices. This is, you might say, side paragraph, sidebar, parallel case. But I come up first and foremost to celebrate this matter and to express the firm support of it. I remind you that the last good student was, in particular, brought up by imported, inexpensive labor force. So I'm not accusing the companies who did so good in the heart of practicing bad business practices, by no means or by any other means, no one understands what I'm saying. But I just want to remind you that we need a healthy job environment, and we need people to think that people can come here and work here, and that they can go both in good terms and in good housing, and that other minimal needs are guaranteed in a decent way. This is a minimum requirement that one society must make to itself. Another requirement that I feel the need to represent these laws is the police' funding. As other speakers before me have begun to worry about how miserable the police are and ill - equipped to carry out their legal assignments and responsibilities. These include expected increased responsibilities and tasks in this field, in the case of meningal, with increased financial needs. I'm not going to keep this whole thing any further this time, but I'm going to reiterate my support to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u79	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the change of public penalties, the opinion of the greater part of the General and Education Committee. This issue is positive in the serious case of human halls and in itself is only good for saying while the step is actually short, based on the fact that human halls have grown here, and action is needed to counteract it. It is my opinion as well as ours that this situation needs to be handled in a collective way so that the problem is brought with dignity and guided by the immediate benefits. It's a problem that doesn't have a very long history here, but, as I say, it's gone on a lot, and it needs an urgent restoration. The hall can be a labor hall and associated with prostitution, and so, as it puts it, to employ labor or knowledge in other ways. This law says it's going to be a breaking point and it's a good thing, but so I speak seamen's language, it's like when you don't quite get into the seasuit before you're done with it and just keep your boots on. That's when you're in danger of getting wet anyway. This may not be a very good metaphor, but we are not well equipped, can we say, to face such problems with this bill? It is quite interesting to also see what the police really are accustomed to dealing with this problem, such as in so many other areas of the responsibility of the police, and this is largely due to the human condition. I'd like to intercept a report by the Police Department since 2019 on the mansal language and import of the people by permission of the President: In recent years, groups of Eastern Europe have repeatedly arrived in the country solely in order to engage in organized burglary and theft. The police have a suspicion that these groups, in some case, will enjoy, at least, the guidance of the relief workers in this country. Regular crossings of burglary and thefts, such as shops, workplaces, new buildings, and summer quarters. In the last year, foreign groups have repeatedly stolen valuables from jewelry and clothing stores in the capital area. The police have also studied cases involving individuals from a secure state, as defined by the National Institute for international protection in this country. When police are able to stop the operation or to leave the country of the crime groups, the waves of decommissioned. In the summer of 2018, a group of foreign burglars went through the country, and some 20 cases have been known to have stolen valuables in small settlements. It is likely that foreignly organized fractures are involved and that groups from Eastern Europe are suspected. Data from the police file support this conclusion. The organization of these rural groups can be compared to ◯ labor groups, which include shift change, one group replace another, e.g. with some overlap during the stay. The organized misuse of foreign crime groups in public and systems: In the northern and international states, criminal organizations are known to misuse public and systems and to contribute to their organized activities. This is true of improved systems, employment services, refugees' welcome systems and candidates for global protection and numerous social services available to them. The damage caused by this activity is many; it is obviously financial and also fallen to reduce the effectiveness of public service to those who really need help and to seek international protection on legitimate grounds. Such misuse of public service on the part of foreign offenders can harm immigrants and legitimate candidates for international protection will be used as a source of propaganda against these groups. This is from the 2019 State Marshal's diagnostic report and shows how serious the situation is, this has become a fact. It'll show up in a hurry, we can talk about attacks. Because I'm referring to the police and that they have to be prepared to respond to the situation that lies before them, I think of what we're going through now and in many ways is just, but it's also called out a problem, abbreviated week of work. Not every group in the community is happy or contented with that decision, and it affects much of its profession, including the police. I would like to read a news release a few days ago, since the National Association of Police Officers is deeply concerned about the legal status in Iceland: ▪ The government of the National Association of Police Officers is deeply concerned about the situation faced by the police. All too few police officers are at work, and the percentage of learned policemen is dangerously low. Evidently, after the workweek's shortening of the last May, the situation of law enforcement in Iceland has deteriorated dramatically. Despite promises and agreements, the U.S. Marshals Department has not been funded by the government to control additional human life. As a result, fewer policemen are on duty each time. This situation greatly reduces the safety of policemen and the public. When a shorter week of work was negotiated for shift workers, the government must have realized that more policemen would need to be hired and put extra money in police education. Police officials insist on making contracts and providing the funds needed to be a proper member of the police department. That's a strong word, but it's a serious matter. You see, when you take some action that in this case is spoken of as a matter of justice - and I can totally agree with that thinking is that you have more time for yourself and your family, and you will have better results by working on a shorter day's work. There are probably a number of professions involved, but there is a lack of financial support. It's all too common for us here on Frona, with us politicians. There are good ideas about how the land is being treated, to sea and rural areas, and even to the extent of its implementation and its legislation, which lacks the funding for the success of the project. This is tragic because the purpose of this arrangement is sacred. I also have a medical example that may not directly involve this bill - or - yes, it does. Everyone needs health care. It says: That takes 2 billion and 200 employees. As a result of abbreviated work week of some $2 billion dollars, the hospital values interest money. More than 200 additional workers have to be hired at least They're talking to an assistant director at the National Hospital, Anna Sigrún Baldursdóttir. She says that there is a good conversation between the management and the Department of Justice and the Ministry of the Hospital and the Ministry of finance, but there was no need to do so. Here's another report about a doctor at the emergency hospital, who's about to retire in 40 years because he's given up under the pressure, even though he's not even older. The following will be discussed with your doctor in the morning paper: He repeatedly reviews government declarations on the importance of protecting and strengthening the health system in the pandemic, but he now says that the situation has never been worse than it is now. ▪ We've been pointing out that the emergency room is in a state of emergency today. We are sailing into the summer in a worse position than ever before. - Says this tried doctor. I just wanted to come to see how the work week's shortening affects various jobs. I can add to the fact that I know a lot of traders, and myself I was an industrial worker here in the old days, and most of them complain about this too. Those who buy the job suffer because they try to shorten their time, time for coffee, and so forth, and traders are working outside their jobs. V.E.G. President. I'm just going to mention what I said at the beginning of the talk, that this is a positive step, but just too little. I would also like to add it, because we have been told about foreign affairs, about those who come here to work, and then for those who come by special means, as well as for those who take refuge, that today's program is a matter that we have discussed much, and we are turning to equalize the service of the trustees and the welcomers. To us in my category, it's a message that they're opening up more for the oasis into the country, as we have said, for those who are seeking refuge. We do not look to the experiences of other nations, to the consequences this may have. If we look at the northern countries, Denmark and Sweden mainly, and Norway, Danir has given them a 180 degree turn, U-turn, in these cases, and wants to use the funding to help people in the place where it's going. But we don't. Rather than looking at the experiences of our neighboring nations in this regard, we take the course that Dan is turning away and actually taking in a much deeper way than they did, and this is a sign of human kindness. I said in a speech the other day that kindness could turn into its contrast when it was not a good decision. They need to be considered to the end. We can't just put out some beautiful words if they can't be fulfilled. In view of the fact that we all want to help those in need, I feel very serious, but we need to be ready to do so. You can't just be good at words, not on tables. Therefore, I hope that the discussion that we in my category have maintained with the foreign languages will have the basis for people to start talking and looking into their eyes but not in their openings. The political must not go about selling any ideas about being the best, as I put it here the other day, and making an auction for who's the most good. We need to be able to discuss this wisely and look to the experiences of other nations that have gone through these periods or that have already been tested. I witnessed to my early years when I was young and men went out to Denmark and enrolled in unemployment, and then they were just jamming and jamming, really fun, but never returned anything to the community. They couldn't afford it for a long time, just for a while. And so it is that if we are going to skim from other nations, the situation may become a problem that we do not have a bearing on. All of this is said in mind, though, that we need to help someone who is in need but so that we can cope.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u80	V.E.G. President. This case is essentially good. I find that the greater part of the committee's involvement in this case is under way. Nevertheless, I have to let it be said that, of course, this case does not go far enough when it is good. It may be sanctified because it has a longer history, since this country has been predominantly foolish and even a state of unconsciousness toward what is called human halls, whether it is a trade or a prostitution hall or what is done. I remember the time when I was serving in an international airport in the south with the sea, when the first situation was to see the day. This was the period of 1996◯2008. They were in desperate need of relief to bring up these matters, and they came to a considerable degree and were not attended as desirable because of a lack of recovery. It is tried to correct matters, both by these laws and by some other means in the past. That's a good thing to do. However, there are a number of factors that need to be done for the benefit of such laws. Let us not forget, Mr. President, that we are here talking about laws that are designed to protect violations, and unfortunately, it is in this category that those who get the most worked out because of the age are just people who are forced into a human hall by an emergency or poor position, whether it is a trade or a prostitute based on prostitution. This is an international problem, and it has come from such tragic stories from the south, such as the United States. about a work hall that has been working hard on those who suffer, especially women. Of course, we have an obligation to try to avoid this as much as we can. In the United States, there have been significant issues related to the individual sector; construction industry, tourism, agriculture, and so forth, where there is clear evidence of gross abuse and of frequent inadequacy and even hazardous circumstances. It has been observed, as is known, that e.g. Here in the capital area, there is quite a lot about new housing as a living house that does not measure up to any safety requirements, either for burning or otherwise. It is natural that in these days, we Icelanders usually offer people such circumstances. That is contrary to everything we stand for and have tried to move forward, including internationally. It's against everything we've been working on and working on in this category that it's happening here. This has been warned by the middle class, and we have warned of organized violations. We have here all the budgets that have been brought in this ideal period have been given a case to strengthen both police and customs in an effort to keep up with this violation. There is one thing, Mr. President, which I must suggest, that is exactly the aspect of the customs guard, that is the security of the border, the surveillance of those coming here, and, in particular, that due to the lack of funds, there is virtually no toll surveillance on the exports, so that the theft of the crime in this country on a precipitating route, without the fact that we're freezing because we don't have employees to go there. This is what we've been discussing here during the last budgets and special discussions, in special discussions about law enforcement and customs, special discussions of organized activities, etc. Time and again, we have faced these problems, but unfortunately, they have been deaf ears. And the suggestions we've been offering, e.g. to support police and customs care in terms of financial payment, have generally been dropped, and even not received support from all the government opposition that is very negative, to us. But, of course, that's how it is now, and it's only crystal now and has been crystalting for a very long time - I saw that the newly elected president of the Police National Association wrote an article the other day where he put it in a way that it was being embalmed by police officers, especially now because we were shortening our work week. It seems to be an independent problem, Mr. President, that those who negotiated the workweek's shortening schedule did not seem to have realized that there would be a cost to money. Today, there are many problems in various fields, showing that they desperately lack money to live up to this kind of work. It seems like that, Mr. President, when this has been revealed, they'll just be surprised in the face. And so flat, it seems to be the case with men that only yesterday, I think, proclaimed the chairman of a sledgehammer. The legal committee interviewed an interview that the police would receive 900 million. K. due to abbreviated work week. A very good statement, I make it up, but surprisingly, in view of the fact that last day and yesterday we were discussing funds and I don't remember seeing anything to support these payments to the police. And then we hear news today that the National Hospital plans to shorten the workweek at the cost of 2 billion dollars a year. every year, 200 people have to be hired. I'm asking again, Mr President, wasn't it clear in any way when this was agreed? Did they not know that this would require more human resources and increased financial resources? And now I'm still going to remember that to make one day of shift at eight hours, which is probably illegal under these contracts of a shortened workweek, in order to cover one man in a day, we need six and a half because there are always two on each watch. - Now I'm talking about 12 hours of shifts, pardoning, Mr. President, who is expected to be now illegal, since the eight - hour shifts call for a lot more human beings. But 12 hours of shift are easier. There are two on duty and two on vacations and the fourth and fifth decks of vacation time, sick leave, course service, etc. So now that we've cut the work weeks off, the number still increases in the group that is needed to complete one day's shift. This may have been better calculated before these contracts were resolved, since this clearly causes a great deal of trouble. I remember the city sheriff in Reykjavík talking about it in an interview today or yesterday that to fix this problem in this area would require 90 people. We are naturally new from the condition, Mr. President, to change a law degree in the country, which is the best case, but it was changed overnight, as one says, so there was no priors at one or more, which meant that we lost this mess two years off police officers. And despite the fact that now, with a new way for education, graduates have grown over several years to earn it, there's a two - year - old chance in graduationing policemen. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, e.g. in this row, and I've severely criticized it. We were agreeing to a new law the other day where the council was expected to be set up. It had long been passed to the police, Mr. President, without a legal warrant. I criticized it at my time, both here and elsewhere, because you feel that the four, the last five major changes in police activities have actually been made before they came in for payment. It is a very bad example when law enforcement itself does not comply with the law, i.e. It is not based on irrefutable and clear correction. Fortunately, there have been no repercussions, so I know, but it's still bad that this is happening, very bad. In this category, as unfortunately, in many parts of this government, there has been a lack of complete perspective, a lack of a vision for the future. Although the changes have been made - and now I'm saying, Mr. President, that I am very pleased with the changes made, e.g. in the capital area and elsewhere in the sex - crime studies as well as in trying to speed up their handling of matters before court. Sadly, though, we lose too many cases without convictions, e.g. ... becauseoftoolongmeditation. I'm sorry. I understand very well those who feel that they have been violated again, both in court treatment and in judicial resolution, when the supposed offenders walk free after things may have taken two to three years of treatment, which is far too long. Clearly, the angle to these issues has been wrong. Men have focused on the position of the alleged defendant, but they have not taken the offense to heart. I suspect the same thing was true in this group of languages that we're talking about, i.e. with respect to mansales. As I said before, human halls are full of organized crime, even international. Cross-border smuggling is, for example, as much industry and as lucrative as drug smuggling. We've seen it and heard that people are found in containers here and there throughout Europe. But we can be sure of that, but we don't care whether the payer will get safe on our way. This is a case requiring that we take a strong role, Icelanders, in international cooperation to put down the manor. We cannot overlook the fact that human halls and offenses against these people are particularly directed toward people who are under attack, even those who are disabled, those who are in poor social standing. In our case, people who do not speak in the Icelandic language have been brought here and cannot say their business to the authorities or to others without help. They can't tell you if they think they're wrong, so they're fucked by these people in a very decisive and cruel way. Of course, we must do everything we can to eliminate this wrongdoing. I said, Mr President, it's an international problem. It's an international project. We've noticed that in this country, organized crime has been developing in recent years. There, unfortunately, we have had the same folly as this bill is about. It is not clear enough that we have a foreign crime problem that is more organized and organized than many other things we have seen in the past. Unfortunately, the world, including Iceland, is not as innocent as it used to be. We have to face this cold reality, Mr. President, and we have to counteract this operation. We have a recent very tragic case involving just international crime, and we must strive to eliminate these activities as best we can. We do so naturally by promoting law enforcement here and promoting national security. I mentioned a tragic case that has just been accepted, but there was a murder weapon for police alertness. The murder weapon was a pistol with a sound tank. Somehow she's found her way to Iceland. She hasn't been moved into a luggage, would you think, she hasn't been brought in like this as a general mail delivery. She hasn't been legal in Iceland. That is why we, the middle class, have emphasized the added customs care. Some people have watched us with pity and have said that customs are now just a child of their day, and they are not pursuing something in tourist suitcases today. But customs patrols have nothing to do with that, Mr. President, and that's what we've been trying to prove. We have, for example. It should be noted that there has been a high number of errors in the treatment of containers and container communication over the course of time. There are also fractions in that we do not have enough drug dogs, and their roles have been spoken down in less unlikely places recently. But these are all issues that we have to take in order to stem a crime that breeds man - made halls, which breeds a drug offense that breeds murder and murder. One wrong operation follows another. It's too confusing with this case. That's how it came, e.g. in a conference held several years ago by Reykjavíkurburg to the principal site of prostitution in Reykjavík was in an Airbnbub area, which was then under close supervision. So it does not help to avoid the fact that one fracture activity follows another and in many cases strengthens other fracture activities. This is what we need to prevent by promoting law enforcement in the country and advancing customs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u81	Mr. President. We're here on bill to legalize the change of public penal law, on 227. a their song, and is about the change of mansales. The bill was prepared for the Ministry of Justice by Svala Ísfeld Ólafsdóttir, a specialist in penalties, and is done in accordance with government emphasis on human rights and other practical measures. It's been in progress some time, and maybe I'll just talk about it, about timing and that in the implementation of these cases. This is part of widespread government action against human halls to meet international agreements as well as to combat the rise of organized crime groups. This issue has been traced back over 20 years when the United Nations General Assembly agreed in 2000 to agree to an agreement against a multinational organized crime called the Palermo Convention. On the same day, the council adopted a special account of the contract to prevent, eliminate and punish for human halls, especially for women and children, called Palermos. It presents basic precautions for prevention in the battle against international organized crime, and distributions are presented in the book. That happens in the year 2000. Iceland will validate this contract ten years later and book it that same year, spring 2010. I just wanted to bring this up. Other North countries did it much earlier. Denmark validated the treaty and the Protocol in 2003, Finland 2004 and 2006, Norway validated both 2003 and Sweden, as well as the 2004 contract. So they're four or seven years ahead of us. I just want to point out what we are hovered at, and maybe I'll discuss it considerably in this speech in connection with the struggle against the rise of organized crime and crime, which, of course, is largely international, i.e. Participating in these gangs and their activities is not limited to one country. It is even the exception that the groups are appointed domestic agents. They are usually appointed members in many parts of the world, mixed and therefore difficult to possess. Knowledge and ability to hide and cover their tracks are quite remarkable because these groups have worked widely and have experience and knowledge, as it were, so to speak that criminal groups have knowledge. It is indeed, Mr. President, that members of these groups, many of them, have considerable knowledge in their fields, i.e. to commit crimes, even complex crimes that are hard to enlighten and, of course, have been able to provide bacteria, those who organize and perform them with considerable profit at the least possible risk or at the least. These are experts in their field, many of them, and they have in their midst a wide range of other members to do what they intend to do. I've found out how late we were to validate the Palermo deal and the Palermo Protocol compared to the rest of the North countries. We're very late, we're far behind the North countries. It is true that we have long since done so. But now it's showing up here. We're always far behind, and we're also, Mr. President, far behind in showing the response to the diagnostics of the State Marshal, as I've repeatedly pointed out in this chair. We're so late, we're always a long way behind, and sometimes the damage is even done, as in this case. The rise of organized gangs in Iceland has become so overwhelming, Mr. President, and I assure you, it takes a real effort to master the problem in our society. You won't be able to do a field trip. The tools and measures that we need to take must be decisive and clear. What do they call the police? She may call for a number of things, and she may mention that she primarily wants to increase the number of police involved. There's two things, Mr. President. It is not just a growing number of police officers, it is increasing the number of men who have the knowledge and ability to investigate these crimes. What's going on in there? V.E.G. The Minister of Justice wants to convince us that something is going on there. Of course, if we are to reach our tail in these materials, we need to spit our hands hard. However, there is also a need to increase the number of common police officers who are doing voluntary work, i.e. Police officers, law enforcement officers, where police officers can handle what they notice or feel about their work. Sadly, today is not the case. They are busy with all their posts and handle the issues they have on their table. As a result, this group of languages is out of reach. For the sake of this fight and for the sake of the highest order. The Minister of Justice submitted the Central Party earlier in the winter a request to the highest degree. A minister of what she would have done and what she would have thought to do to counter the rise of these groups and to work in accordance with the indications that are presented in all these reports that I am tired of witnessing. There are a number of reports that have been published for many years since 2007. It's been 14 years and it's been a constant tip in them. But the reaction has been extremely calm and extremely slow, as this matter shows and the man's affairs have been over his head. I may not be talking about this bill directly, but rather, how long it takes us to accept, as I pointed earlier, far behind the North countries to respond to the agreement made in 2000. Ten years later, we were validating him while the rest of the North countries did so very early in the process. We're always behind. Mansal is a serious offense that is difficult to inform and difficult to recognize because the wrongdoer is deeply dependent on. If foreign people are, as they often do, people are transferred to the country and have to work as prostitutes or regular jobs, some sort of slave labor on a low salary. It is bound to the perp, to its protector, or to what can be called men, it is put as slaves and puzzles and, in effect, has to pay much of its money to these criminal groups, it may be the right word for this, these criminals, or gangs of crime. This has just been growing in this country. As a result, the reports I mentioned testify to this fact. Of course, I can only turn to the latest report, but I'm just gonna use it, even if I can use all of it. I'm gonna kill down on page 18. 10 of this report is just the right to give you an idea of what's going on here, by permission of a president: ▪ In Europe's largest cities, criminal groups associated with certain ethnic fragments are prominent in organized prostitution. Romanian and Albanian groups are rapidly involved. The groups involved in many other criminal activities in Europe, such as drug trade, money laundering, and organized theft. By forcing refugees into crime, those who are actually responsible for organized crime can reduce their own risk. That's how these groups work, Mr. President. They work behind this refugee stream, which has flowed into Europe, making use of the plight of these people in their own interests and making them dependent, moving them, even costing them their transport, or flying, and then having the people paid back with some kind of work or crime, harnessing or prostitution, or whatever their name is. This operation has arrived in Iceland, according to the police itself. I have sometimes put it this way: Isn't it time, Mr. President, to listen to the police and respond to what experts tell us to do and to use the weapons they point out the need to stop this? So says the report, with the permission of the president: ▪ Mansal takes on the following factors: Getting people, moving them, delivering them, hosting or taking over. Illegal forcedness, depravity, threats, illegal deception. Sexual abuse, forced labor, organ resection Mansal is a large category of crime. The police report suggests that Iceland is the destination for human halls, especially construction halls, restaurant drivers, and tourism. In 2015/2219, the number of human affairs was 74, but what is noteworthy is that only one case involved in a lawsuit marked by this category, perhaps telling the history of difficult situations, difficult in study, difficult to illuminate. This is not usually part of the cooperation between violators and police officers. Necessary accuses, reveals not a sin of the fear of his tormenters. Even though so many cases were raised, only one was involved in a series of charges, some 88 possible failures. It may show into this world what we're talking about. We're talking about a big problem, Mr. President. The report then states: Police reports indicate that foreign citizens have been exported to Iceland in an organized way to put on man trade and misjudgment. That's where I was reading from the diagnostics. Her report in 2015, four years earlier, states: ▪ Aggressive and man-to-be could be increased, including in connection with large increases in construction and tourism. Building growth creates a risk of illegal import into workers, and there are cases where the slave of the darkness is involved. Some offenders have been found to play a role in the man - made trade by deceiving and abusing individuals who come in their ways. This will increase the risk that black employment will survive in connection with increasing activity in tourism and construction. And what, Mr. President? This is 2015. Then the 2019 report says that this seems to have been the case. The prophetic value of what the police are warning us about is very much. Predictions are very high. The police warned against this 2015, and it's actually 2019. And what does this report say in 2019 C.E.? It simply says that the ability of the Icelandic police to resist organized crime is considered minor. Is that encouraging, Mr. President, to read such a thing? We face the great problems of organized crime, major problems that lead to serious consequences in society, in people, in violations, and in the community together, not only financially but also in security. The sense of security will be reduced and safety will be less for all citizens. Serious? Yeah. Can the police? Small. Are we talking about a big deal? Yeah. Is that getting a lot of attention? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're just gonna sit there and watch this grow until nothing's in control. We're only 370,000 in the country and here in the city of Reykjavík, over 200,000. Are we going to see that there are criminal groups taking over in the community, causing huge social costs, insecurity, and going ahead, if the police do not have the ability to stop it? Should we watch it? Will we? No. I say no. Of course, we're supposed to promote the police in order to have the power to fight this issue. What does she need to fight this, Mr. President? What research is needed by the police to be better equipped to combat organized crime? It points out this in the report, for example. During the maximum period of custody, which is less than days in neighboring countries, deadlines to provide data to lawyers are shorter here, and some other things may be mentioned, which I may wait to do until later. Of course, the police need the weapons that work in this struggle. We cannot risk the safety of the cities in this small peaceful country for the fact that there are groups here, in fact, quite large groups, according to the highest standards. Ministers, several hundred men who order these groups, according to hers, and we cannot feel that the police are weak that this can grow here in our society like weeds we don't know how to remove. There are other points to be mentioned, and I may be able to use a different talk to cover it better because it is my heart's concern that the police are not at odds with this disaster, which is truly happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u82	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's comments were made in his speech, including ... toimprovethepolice. There's something I know that me and what. A senator agrees on and, in fact, on police matters, other than perhaps the need to promote the various sources that are often spoken of, but there is still more to talk about. I wanted to ask you what. In view of the speech given by the Central Party on other matters, if he cannot agree with me that it is important for the victims of human hall not to be afraid of the authorities when the manor is discovered. It is true that although manorship is seen in the food trade, transport, and construction industry, such as at the end of the day, it is the case. A senator went well, so it goes as well, for example. In the sex industry and the drug industry, and of course, some victims of human halls are in the position of foreigners and residents that it is relatively easy to send them away, which, of course, depends on the individual circumstances and background. In such a situation, I am concerned that it is harder to expose a person's husbandship and more difficult to get the cooperation of human victims when they themselves fear the authorities. There are even cases in which a victim of human hall is threatened with authority because in some way a person has engaged in some sort of drug abuse or sex industry, e.g. Pornography, or anything like it, is breaking the law of foreigners. These are lawsuits in which I have not found the speech of the Middle Party to reduce the power of the empire. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator on the subject. [[The president calls.]] Is it not part of what we have to do to change laws, so that victims of human halls need not fear us at all?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is very much concerned with these questions. I think that, if I may put it that way, the poor people who are caught in being victims of a mansal, whatever it is, are very easy to control. The fear of people with authority is, of course, a well - known and simple way to get people to the floor so that they are afraid to move, afraid to press charges, afraid to turn themselves over to the authorities. The people are afraid of the authorities. I think it is part of wrongdoing that the tormentors believe that these people are from the bad, so many of these people come from countries or territories where authorities may not be with them in the world and may be known to treat their people badly so that they are in the minds of many of these people that the authorities are of the bad. To change this view may be more general because they come to the country with this idea that the authorities are of the bad and that they should not be approached, they do not come to help, but do something else. Of course, we know what. A senator and I, that's not part of the Icelandic police.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u84	A respectable president. I'm not talking about any concern that the police might be causing these people to be violent or anything like that. I'm concerned that these people are afraid of the legislation that has been established, and the police are directly obliged to enforce, as are other government institutions, e.g. Foreign Institute. I'm going to go back to a talk that's rather unpleasant to me from 2013 that explains this very well, completely embarrassingly, since we punished a person who was a victim of a drug abuse victim, for smuggling drugs into the country. I'm going into that story from now on, and I don't expect to be. A senator will answer me about certain stories. But the reason why I ask is that without anyone checking the work of the police or the inspector, especially when there's nothing to do with their work, there's a U.S. legislation to blackmail the victims of human halls to make it possible to excommunicate them. The middle class has stood here in a pita and has fought against the increased liberality of substance drugs, even in drug abuse, and has opposed the fact that we have a more liberal foreign policy that would offer our friendly attitude, the State, the Lawgiver, to people who are faced with the possibility of being judged for drug abuse, or to violate the provisional policies, or who have no chance of having a permanent residence permit for long periods, or breaking things like pornography in Iceland, if it is taken for pornography, as an example. [[The president calls.]] In such a series of cases, where we have created some system to deal with a problem we consider bad, my point is that in our fight against a humanist, it is important that we be liberal so that victims of human halls do not fear punishment on our part for having participated in some pain we have judged so bad that punishment has begun for them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again before the questions. He's in there on land, which would be really nice to take a lot more time to talk about. I heard why. A senator may also be talking about something called the punishment of pack animals. I agree with that, somewhere I read that we were severely punished for the crime of carrier animals, i.e. Those who have been appointed to take drugs from one country to another. I completely agree with the opinion that has been tore up, that we are severely punished for it, knowing that these people are not in control of this import itself, not at all. I share that opinion, if properly understood, well. A senator was talking about these people, often dependent on their tormentors, being carrying in a large amount of drugs and receiving enormous sentences. Of course, that's what worries me. Hv. A senator also spoke of liberality in the drug law, that the Central Party was speaking against it, fighting against it. Yes, and no, the answer to that question is both ◯ and ~ We're fighting for the bill on the committee because this bill here is completely incomplete and incomplete. I just think people are starting to see it and realize that it is because this bill has nothing more to do with anything than allowing drugs to consume. We cannot accept that if nothing else is to be done. That is why we have called it the legal process of these substances, and we are not involved. Therefore, a wide range of drastic and well - thought - out measures must be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u86	Mr. President. Here I would like to consider this part of the program to focus my particular attention on a so - called worker trader. I'd like to mention two cases. On the other hand, it's a matter that's going on at the council, and actually on the program later today and on the other hand, a matter that has a bearing on the state of the aircraft and pilots in the environment we come out of right now following the Covid epidemic. So, in this case, they're moving the factors involved in a better direction, but I feel that it is necessary to maintain these factors, on the one hand, the state police diagnostic report, the risk assessment report from May 2018, and the rest of the work room report. Of course, there are many other factors, but the most commonly mentioned in this context, matters related to prostitution and then drug transport and related factors. This is as said in a report by the head of the state of police that deals with work - market violations by permission of presidents: The U.S. Marshal's Department of Unity discussed the term "Achievement Market" to be taken care of in 2017. This aims to translate a term accepted in the northern countries (n. Arbeidsmarkedoutlet). In the field of trade unions, there has been some efforts to deal with social subsidies and rights in a labour market. Social subheadings include: illegal volunteer work, pay theft, inadequate recruitment contracts, misuse of working people, breaks a period of resttime, unacceptable equipment, misuse of property property property. Without a doubt, this list is not a complete list for this list, but it may give us a picture of the extent of the problem involved. I wanted to establish two issues in which I think it's proper to draw attention. First, there is the issue without question being moved to a better source with a bill that lies here and is up to 2nd. At the present meeting, which is equal to 690, bill to legalize the change in passenger transport law, No. 28/2017. So this is a temporary move of guests and neglect. There are especially temporary visitors I would like to come in to today. It was accepted the activities of the years following the flight of the tourism service and up until the time for the Covid epidemic to start that there was a vast number of foreign operators who were employed here, where drivers seemed to operate in most cases under both foreign pay, foreign conditions, if any, and so on the streets. These people, drivers, appeared in long chapters to be living in the buses they drove, and in the long periods of time they heard reports of food being sold from the trunks of these cars, the frequent food that first traveled to the country by bus, when she arrived in the country, and in the long periods of great wonder things that came from which had not actually occurred. Similarly, when a car was taken, stopped for some reason, foreign members, guides, were trespassing about traveling with their fellow Israelites. Immediately, then, there was a family on the road and so on. By doing this, people have avoided the Icelandic rule of action and have avoided being employed by drivers of these enterprises. This is a point that is trying to improve with the bill available here and the mention sheet provided at 2nd. ... thatallthecontinentshad. The environment and transport committees are signed. However, in this matter, which I now expect to be done before the end of the council, there are a number of factors to be considered in this environment to ensure that the personnel business of such companies is in strict order, a passenger's insurance business, and so on. This is further improved by the definition of which these enterprises can operate here and the implementation is that each artist, who claims the Marketing Authorisation Holder, can work for only ten consecutive days in each Almanach month. As a result, the aim is to make temporary move but that vehicles are not here at all, possibly replaced by drivers, in the constant subheads of the domestic market where national operators need to work under them in agreement with the collective agreements and under a rule of insurance and security, and other related factors. So I think it's a big improvement, and I'm really glad that this aspect of the matter is getting better in that case. Then there is the other thing I wanted to mention in this context, just to emphasize how close we are to what is in everyday speech called social subsidiary. Social subs are very short to any of the elements of the work room being warned by the State Marshal's diagnostic department. The fact is that in one way or another this is, I'm not going to say everything, in a gray area, of course it's part of a black zone, but a lot of it's a gray area. Where there is a desire to return from the rules and to have the rights of employees, there seems to be a way. The other point I'd like to mention in this speech is the challenge of eight transport ministers published in Brussels on December 8, 2020, where the Australian Transportal Ministers, Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Holland, and Portugal come together and challenge European governments to make sure that the airport does not find itself in the environment of social subheadings following the relief of the Covid epidemic. Of course, as we all know, airlines throughout the Western world have had more and less problems during the last year because of the epidemic. So the temptation problem is huge in handling matters in a way that makes the flight crew working in a gray area. These eight transport ministers warn of social subheadings and refer to Regulation 1008/2008 in this context. I just want to keep this thing going here in view that we're getting closer. There is no reason to assume that social subsidies do not run into our shores in Iceland, although in many contexts we feel innocent and isolated. I'd like to return to the state police diagnostic report. In particular, there are inadequate employment contracts, which are part of the social subsidiary we know, and for years it has been a special objective of the employee movement, the work programme, and other parties to work against them. That's in line with the Central Party's policy on these issues. It must be ensured that there are laws and rules that are in force because it is not merely that those who flout the rules and laws that are in force that are possible for temporary gain from them but that they flaunt all competitive positions. If the party's competitive position is distorted, I don't talk about longer hours, then it's that the companies who have everything they need to clean up, operate on the laws and regulations in force, pay pay on the existing contracts and treat their employees in a conflicty manner, always have to pay more costs to perform and perform the same service than those companies in the same market that are engaged in social subsidies. It is not in any context reasonable to support such conduct, and it must be mentioned here. I'd like to briefly introduce the work board's review to this matter. It is good to tell you that the work programme celebrates this bill in its review and in its proposed changes to 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a general penal law. Think it's an improvement in the seminary. But it goes on to say, by permission of the President: In line with the role of the work force, the Agency has found it important to root out man-salter at the Icelandic labour market and to participate in the work programme. The workforce, however, gives evidence that it is possible to work even more specifically to eliminate the workforce, it would be helpful to define it better than it is currently being done. That's what I wanted to point to here. .. that there is a possible reason to improve the definition of the work programme, in order to achieve even more fully the targets set by this legislation. On with permission of the President's permission, the work agency's review continues: While there is no comment on the fact that the penalty law will continue as a whole and the general requirements for human activities, the work programme wants to highlight the importance of making such a law clear to all the relevant factors, including those involved. all aspects of the work hall. For a report on the bill, see the box on page 18. 9 is the term working room, which says: ▪ A person's room covers forced labor, slavery, slavery, or other misuse of work to the full conditions of 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a.◯ According to case one. 1.mg. Twenty-seven. a. The bill is clearly laid down for forced labor, slavery, and slavery. However, the wording does not appear in the wording of the law itself. The definition of the term "work site" thus goes further in the explanation of the provision of a report than in the terms in the bill itself. I just want to point it out. The General and Education Committee on, let the bill walk to a panel between discussions, to consider this because the rationality of what is called the following can be otherwise than an improvement in the whole case. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: The Management Board considers it desirable that the term work room in the bill's penalty code is clearly defined and consistent between the wording of the law and its explanation in a paper with the bill. Thus, the workforce suggests that this harmony will be ensured and that the word "accompaniment " will be more clearly supported by the law and will be better defined in its explanation. Here, I return to what is said in the state police chief's report on organized violations of May 2019, which says, on permission of the president: In the field of trade unions, social subsidies and rights of a labour market have been endeavored to deal with. Social subheadings include: illegal volunteer work, pay theft, inadequate recruitment contracts, misuse of working people, breaks a period of resttime, unacceptable equipment, misuse of property property property. These factors all need to be looked overall with the objective of achieving the target for which the Law is intended and the central category supports in this matter. A respectable president. I'm going to make this a good name for this in my speech, but I'm going to reiterate the matter to the committee, without my intention to make a suggestion, because I'm wrong. The manager of the case is sitting in the audience, and this statement by the Work Board will be considered in the context of the directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I didn't feel much in her that I couldn't disagree with. I listened carefully to his coverage on labour market subs, i.e. so - called social subs, and then began to wonder about the same thing as I asked a second time. A senator of earlier times is the situation of people who may be in a gray area with law enforcement, people who are not necessarily victims of human halls in the most clearest sense under the law where legal action could be used, but who are still in a particular oppressive relationship with their superiors, oppressive relations where they can include. Applying the rules of the State against the individual for things such as not meeting conditions for a repercussion or anything like that, people who may come in here and have something unpleasant or illegal in their affairs about rights and conditions but who need to be here, want to be here and fear nothing more than to be sent away from the country; wanting to take on a variety of tortures here in Iceland rather than to be sent back and live in the same tortures or worse in their own country, whether they are just incompetent or other things that fear the relevant. My point is this: When we live in a community where people have to fear how the authorities react to where they are or what they do, to things that are not serious - for example. not serious things to be in any country where it must not be serious, it is not serious, it is not serious that someone uses substance that is illegally illegal, it is not a serious offense against others, it can become a serious problem for the individual and others, but it is not serious; however, when we install our system, so that people are in a difficult position toward employers, about stayauthorities, to the authorities over our heads, it is not good if we have a state that is generally understanding toward people who are not equal, that they may not necessarily prefer serious offenses to be here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not important for these people to trust the superior authorities that we show the most liberalness in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u88	The President reminds us that it's two minutes to take an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. I get it so I can ask you a question. The senator assumes that there's an issue in the fact that the individuals who come in here, like hell. A senator expressed it, with a little unclean flour in the sachet, without a serious offense, not afraid of the authorities. I think I understand the point. I'm sure the senator will, but the senator will correct me if I'm not. I think we should resolve that those who are here, whether there are persons hired to work in the companies working here or in the people and families who come here through the cry-reversity network, which are, of course, carefully examined in a much more decisive way than the candidates for international protection that come here on their own roads -- I'm not sure that there's a very good step to form the system, so that individuals, even groups, as discussed in the report I referred repeatedly to a talk that has dirty flour in the sack -- I understand. A senator would be looking for no cause for deportation if the person is involved in some form of communication with the public system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At least I can't see the quick way to do that, but if I do. A senator will suggest one in his next speech, and I will listen attentively. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u90	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u91	A respectable president. I have to admit that I didn't want to make myself very clear in the previous answer, that time came out, and that was well done. My point is this: In a more free society, it is harder to use the State to oppress people. The more the State embraces different types of people who do different things, even things that are dangerously desirable, the more government is tolerant of them, the less it can be used to use us to be different and to have different customs, to look different and to speak different things, and to make things different as weapons against the same individuals. One such simple example is, for example. It's a drug business. In many cultures, e.g. cannabis with a similar set and alcohol in Iceland, it's not necessarily healthy, it's not good for you to use it in excess of it, but it's there, while alcohol is listed as something that Iceland would look up to groups like heroin, which is, in fact, not the unfair comparison if it goes there, alcohol is completely toxic. But my point is that there are people in Iceland who are different and may not realize when they get here that they really can lead to their being referred back to the country if they don't have the papers in order. Here people who really feel they are from their heart's roots, not taking cannabis, in the same way that Iceland does not generally consider it a matter of taking alcohol, in small amounts at all times. While we're cruel or not understanding such things in general, I'm just taking two examples, but in general, it's easier for people with other people working at work to change conditions of oppression. My point is, freedom is good. It is good to break up oppressive relationships between individuals and between companies and individuals. [[The president calls.]] I'll mention it because I've heard that debate. The members of the Central Party are generally in opposition to greater liberality. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to say that there is a connection between the state's liberality and the oppressive relationship that can develop in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u92	The president does his best to be patient with members of Congress, but that will not be much longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the most successful thing for society is that all those who live there follow the rules set. I don't think it's unfair to think of, for those who come from abroad for whatever purpose it may be, from coming here to a long time stay or to come as tourists for a short time, that the rules are the way they are. I think if we go along with it, the rules are more than just guidelines. - Yes, yes, I understand, but I think we have to watch people follow their rules just the way they are. [[That the rules are more free.]] But the fact that the rule will be more free, like a dog. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is then merely a change of community and adjustment that needs to take place progressively. So I think we'll change the definition of the Community Convention not just by giving talks that are useful, to increase the level of freedom. We must, then, do so by making adjustments in the various legalities that Porita's members do very well. It's often that me and the other members of the Central Party disagree with Pirata's approach to the various matters, but it's not absolute, and I think we have to do it so that if we really want to increase this freedom, we'll have to change it. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a greater tendency to look at everyone applying the same rules, no matter what the reason they're here in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u94	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill to legalize the change in public penalties, No. 19/190, in particular, about mansal. I would like to introduce my speech to you the pleasure of this careful and well-funded bill and thank you for the very upcoming and practical report that comes with it. This matter is very much in the spirit of our Middle Class and falls toward our course. We have been tireless of urging to respond to repeated indications of state police intelligence, especially in a report from 2017 and 2019, of the rise in organized crime and its dangers to the Icelandic nation. We have encouraged the police to increase, to ensure the necessary equipment and equipment and authority. We live in the Middle East so well that we have a group of members of the council of police and border patrol specialists. Of course, we will continue to speak for these matters. The bill includes suggestions for changing to 227. g. a general penalties, of manseal, in line with legal development elsewhere in the North countries, the international treaty and the comments of the European Council of Experts, called GRETA, on anti-managers' actions. Mr. President. An article with the bill will discuss the U.S. Marshal's assessment of organized violations. It noted that 2007 analysis departments followed the development of organized crime since 2008 and published a report almost every year evaluating the risk of an organized crime in a region. A 2015 report refers for the first time to a work hall as a special category of human halls. It is noted that earlier reports say little or no mention of a work hall. Rather, it is primarily about organized prostitution in the case of human halls. The latest risk assessment report by the State Marshal's Department, dated in May 2019, shows that there is much to suggest that organized prostitution has increased in this country and that part of it has to do with internationally organized crime groups. There is evidence, according to the State Marshal's diagnostic department, that Iceland is the destination for human halls, and especially construction halls, restaurants, and tourism. There is also evidence that foreign citizens have been exported to the country in an organized way to receive man - made sale and abuse. According to the report, large increases in construction and tourism growth have resulted in illegal imports in workers, and there are cases of individuals who slave for the Darkmen between bad costs. Says, and is also quoted in a bill article that the police estimate that in recent years there has been rapid growth in human halls within these sectors. The report shows that the growing number of trust seekers increases the risk of man traders. I reiterate, Mr. President, that the report shows that a large increase in the number of trustees increases the risk of human sales where their poor social standing puts them out, as it has been said, for abuse and oppression. The report on the bill says that when state police diagnostics surveyed the period 2008◯2019, it can be seen that until 2015, especially those in the construction and sex services, but starting in 2015, there was a change in the prospect of looking at more manor films, such as a shop, especially in the construction industry, food and travel services as possible, and the carriers of narcotics. I'm going to grab this slightly further down in the report of the state police department from May 2019, Mr. President, and must shoot it in here that you would appreciate it, and doubtless many, that the governor would release a new report now that four years have passed since the last on this subject. However, it says that experience from abroad shows that victims are not the only ones to go to the police. It also indicates that there is limited information available to the potential range of human halls in the country, according to Icelandic police assessments mainly based on information and evidence rather than on a number of criminal issues. A report by the president's permission by the U.S. Marshal's survey continues: ▪ An illegal transport and smuggling of people are involved in organized criminal organizations. National crime groups that have settled in many European countries are very active in this area. Police data indicate that foreign citizens have been exported to Iceland in an organized way to receive man trade and abuse. In 2018, a extensive human physiotherapy began. It seems that a foreign person has organized people across borders around the world and has finally moved to Iceland. An article with the bill is traced to judicial matters. There are not many, but I refer to the detailed article on that subject. As previously said, Mr. President, this bill points to a change of 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a in general penalties are subject to human penal sensitivity in order to further improve the protection of victims and facilitate a lawsuit against those responsible for the fractures. These are the two independent and important goals listed here; to improve the protection of victims and to facilitate a lawsuit against wrongdoers. According to one report, the development of legislation in other countries has been specifically considered, another report by the GREU team on Iceland, the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 211/36/EU to prevent and combat man-sponsoring and protectants, as specified by the International Jobs Agency. Mr. President. A chapter on impact assessment in the report states that the main subject of the bill is to trust even more fully the protection of the candidates, especially of women and children, who are being sold into prostitution or sexually abused in other ways. Then, economic hardships, wars, and political instability in the world have contributed to the transport of people in search of a better standard of living. It continues that this led to the need for further confidence in the security of inmates, refugees, traveling workers, and foreign workers to fight forced labor and forced labor, slavery, or slavery. The bill has fallen to further strengthen the protection of human tolerance and resist the loss of basic human rights to control one's life and body. Mr. President. The report discusses the nature of man's term and the substance of its meaning. It says in a chapter on a series of articles on the bill, with the permission of a president: ▪ Mansal is a gross violation of human rights that violates the privacy of an individual. The violations are directed against the freedom of violations and the most sacred personal rights in order to use the person's body, hard work, or knowledge in other ways. The changes proposed by the bill are detailed in the report. That's where the President's permission says: First of all, adjustments are made to the purpose of the manal. The different purpose of a man's house is to make either a person useful for material purposes or to take advantage of it personally in some way. Forms of practical use are improved according to the known mansal representations, taking into account international agreements bound by Iceland and international cooperation. Then, in the March 2019 issue of GREU's report on Iceland, it responds to what is called a special term for punitive protection to be used in forced unions to beg or to perform a criminal act. He goes on to say, by permission of the president: ▪ The special use used to perform criminal acts is e.g. Forced to do shoplifting, pocket theft, burglary, manufacture or sell false goods or to use them as carriers of drugs or to move money from country to country. In many places, children are abused for this purpose, as wrongdoers are benefited because they are not to be prosecuted for their youth. Then the servide is added in accordance with Article 3. The Palermo books and GRETU's comments. It is specifically noted that a bell bet falls below that point. It also involves forced household services, e.g. magazines to help with household chores. Then the list of slaves has been added in accordance with Article 3. Palermo books and GRETU comments - that I may allow, Mr. President, to turn to Icelandic, even though he is short-finished in the foreign language of Greta - to be in need of resources, e.g. They may be in dire straits, allowing the person to work on a debt that is not even fully supplied or in need of residence so that the person is dependent on a wrongdoer in a home. The employment room includes forced labor, slavery, slavery, or other abuse of work force to meet the conditions of 1 mg. Twenty-seven. a. Then, in particular, the sexual purpose of the human hall is set out in Danish and Norwegian penal code. Mr. President. I have now been discussing the proposed change and attracting to the purpose of the man's room, but secondly, changes are proposed to the method of action, allowing the president: ▪ Instead of the words of the person's poor position, or by making practical application of the person's mismanagements, or by making use of the situation, the authorities should make it easier to fight against the worker trade, but these are circumstances that are often characteristics violations of trust, refugees, traveling workers, and foreign citizens. In that case, higher position, e.g. It means that a person who tolerates a person is financially dependent on the person who violates him. I've been tracking materials and reports in this fine, elegant bill and I've never been able to cut down except in a few places for the sake of time. I must say, Mr. President, especially because of the recommendations quoted in the report, i.e. a statement by the State Marshal, which states that a large increase in the number of trustees increases the risk of a man trade, that there is an undeniably strong confusion that the same government is here with a bill submitted by the Supreme Court. Social Affairs Minister for changing the law on immigrants that will be considered as a mere threat in this regard, which contains messages that will not be misunderstood in the world, that Iceland should become an even better destination for the rest of its trustees than it is currently. Today, Iceland has a six - fold increase in capitalism compared to Denmark and Norway, three times as many as in Finland, so it can hardly be improved. But it turns out that the highest. A government doesn't think so. Of course, this discrepancy is not good and it is very much so. But in view of my time, about When I finish, I reiterate my pleasure with the bill, how well it's done, and instead of all practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u95	A respectable president. I can't remember the numbers exactly exactly, but I looked them up recently: In 2019, there were three hundred and some human asylums in Iceland while they were born around 4,500 children in Iceland. So this claim to over-exploited population in Iceland because of those taking refuge, because we are accepting so many takeover applications, is not true. I have to mention this right here because of what you're doing. At the end of his talk, a senator went out on this point. Well, that's not what we were talking about here. No doubt we will have more opportunities to discuss such matters and take refuge. Of course, that is a connection, and that is why. A senator went into it. The link I see is exactly the one, and here I go to the same psalms that I've gone off to at other times. Of course, members of the Central Party, that when we create a system that is to be feared by people, we also provide ideal circumstances for oppression when people in the situation that they are forced or injured to break some of the rules we have set, and they are in a very bad position toward their oppressors. I think this is relatively common, both when it comes to social subspecies and when it comes to human sales, i.e. The person is threatened by breaking the law. Hv. A member of the Central Party, Bergþór Ólason, earlier mentioned in his answer to the same question that, of course, the same rules apply to all of us. I completely agree with that. Of course, there are laws of the land, and I completely agree with that. But that's the point. The wording of the Middle Party is too much, so creating a system that is somehow more understanding to people in the situation of being oppressed for something they've done, such as. To take refuge somewhere, and perhaps to work without having the permission that is, while I remember, the places of those who take refuge, if that was not clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. Of course, it's just his words and his suggestion that we're talking about some kind of overgrowth and some birth rate and stuff like that. Well, that's not the point, is it? The point is that the world, the world, is being shaken by the flood of refugees. There are tens of millions of people on the run and the issue that we face: How should we react to this world's crisis? How can we do our part to relieve suffering and extend help to refugees? That's a question. Like others, we have only limited circumstances to apply ourselves in the matter. One is, for example, that we have only limited money. Therefore, it is our duty and responsibility to set a course that is so that the money and circumstances we have to solve benefit most people and be effective so that we can hold our heads high in the world and say, "We contribute to our efforts. " And we've done our part. That's what we Middle-class people want to do. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson cannot overlook the fact that in the north, there has been a dramatic turn of policy in this regard. They have followed a course of action for some 40 years, which now portrays as mistakes and disappears. We want very simply, Mr. President and what. A senator, who learns from their experience, and whose course of action has become independent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u97	A respectable president. There's no reason why someone else agrees with you. There has been quite some talks that this or the other group is not welcome in the world and that is why that group is not welcome here too. These speeches have not been held by men who I and I have not. A senator would really love it, just so I'll say it on behalf of you. Senator. I think he'd probably agree with me about it. Hv. A senator asks: "How do you help people who are fleeing, these millions who are fleeing? Well, I'd say, maybe by allowing these people to exist somewhere. That's why. A senator perhaps, and I hope I am not putting words into his mouth falsely, but I have concluded this from a debate. A member of the Central Party should then seek out the United Nations armamentist aid for many years. It can invite people to move to a country where they feel they cannot live. That's when you start back at the bottom of the line. It's a big deal to be on the run. The fact that there has been some change in policy in the North countries is simply no evidence. Likewise, a government fund is somehow falling apart because of the pressures of those seeking refuge. It's just not like that. There's more money to the National Church every year than to the rest of the hospice business, a lot more money, almost twice as much, a respectable president. But I don't have a why. A senator's concern and not natural because there's nothing to go around with. Way too much money, we both agree on that. But, hey. A senator will make more of a problem than is needed. Of course, it is true that we have limited funds, but we can accept more. We don't have to take everyone, I haven't heard anyone here suggest it. But, hey. The members of the Central Party say, "We're supposed to take on less people. " Don't take a little more or the same number, no, less people. That's the speech of the Middle Party, a respectable president. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u98	Mr. President. I just want to say that I think it will be best if the middle-class members describe their own policy in their own words. I must be thanking you. A senator for a lesson in logic, but I did not accidentally apply the method he said I had done. But I'm gonna say I can say the word with what. One member of the Parliament, i.e. When referring to the problems and problems that can arise in the case of the greeting workers, he is referring to the problems and problems that may arise. I assume he knows a little bit of it. But how should we use ourselves? I'm gonna let me refer, for example. To the Danish government, which is a government of equal officers in Denmark, as we know. It highlights much on the part of the government in an effort to help people in a local area or near home. These are written articles and given talks on their part. I have applied here in a few articles and will discuss the change in policy now clearly in Denmark. But the Danish fellows are not alone. Their policy is highly supported, both political and national. I'm just gonna say in all kindness to why. Senator that he cannot pretend he cannot see or notice the changing course in the North countries. She's in Denmark, she's in Norway, and she's in other parts of the North, even in Sweden, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we will continue to discuss this transformation and endeavor to listen and learn from what neighboring nations have tried and what they are now trying to do to undo the damage done and to follow a more effective course than they have so far. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u99	The president asks why. Senators to watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u100	A respectable president. We're discussing a very good and positive case, which I don't think will be opposed to a single soul at the General Assembly. On the other hand, I'm going to discuss why I'm very familiar with our representative of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Olga Margrét Cilia has not been on a committee party. Perhaps most of the reasons are found in the committee's opinion, which came from the greater part. For that matter, it means not being at the committee party of the greater part does not oppose matters. In fact, there may be countless committees, all of whom declared support for the case, but the committee itself raises questions, I must admit, a respectable president. The question is, Why could it not go further and respond to the viewpoints found in the comments on the subject? I make it clear that I didn't sit around, I don't know what was going on with them, and I haven't read all the reviews yet, but I have points and have read something about this and researched the subject of the committee's opinion. It's interesting to me that the committee opinion is not responding to proposals that might have been considered better. For example, the committee noted that it is important that potential victims of human halls are not put in custody at arrival. The committee does not respond to this indication, but it does point to the interpretation of No. 35 from 149 C.E. and a bill now available for the treatment of a committee and 718th, a case in the current legislation council, notably indicating that follow-up is needed after this matter is approved to monitor the situation and to respond to the learning that comes from a new law. My problem is that I'm not quick, I've only looked at the understanding and bill, how exactly they're supposed to respond to it. I can't find anything in these data to help prevent possible victims of human halls. Another comment that appeared at the same site in the committee opinion is that the approval of human candidates should not influence the punishment of bacteria. That's the same story. These two fine documents are cited, but I can't find anything in the person who handles the problem. That's where I get the feeling of the committee's opinion that there's more emphasis on finishing the case, a cause that's not bad, than to take this a little handsome right away if it was a pleasure. I understand there's a discussion issue. In any case, that is the conclusion I have come from subsequent talks I have heard about today. Then I hope that this will be considered a little further. I may have missed something there, I have to admit it, but it's some material I haven't read from cover to cover. But it caught my attention how this was benefited and referred to some documents, where there is no mention of the manal and these items, at least not so that I have found a text search. The work programme pointed out that in the bill's report there is a human room, including defined as it may include another misuse of labour, i.e. any other abuse of labor than those specifically listed, slavery, and so on. Sets the work board to make it clear in the bill text and define it better, even referring to the Swedish penalties in which at least two terms are defined, which are translated in English as '-human expression' and '- '-' the sub-locally unreasionable 1992s'. A respectable president. I don't trust myself to get this worked up here and now, but there's a Swedish way of thinking that people can use if they want to. But this is another thing that I would have wanted to see the committee struggle a little better and try to figure out a solution, because I agree with it basically, I now think the committee would do the same. The rational support of the Committee is that when the positive process is being extended, and I can see no better than that everyone agrees, the committee also points to the importance of making the judicial responsibility clear, which, of course, is true. However, this is a suggestion in the review of how to achieve that goal, and it was referred to the Roman Swedish penal law. Then, too, the review of the National Institute of Iceland pointed out that the concept needed to be harmonized, which the committee disagreed with, I now quote it. A respectable president. Then I have considered the warnings that I have in particular on the subject. Of course, we have not come to the end of this discussion, so we may not be able to do this before the case is approved at the General Assembly. Of course, it is possible that these points can be explained better than the person listed here has come to realize, so far. I, however, must also, in view of the fact that we are discussing this matter, and the practice and social subsidies and the like, to mention that in the bill's report, quite at the bottom of the paragraph 1. the bill, is only about the criminal responsibility of human lawbreakers. That's an interesting chapter. I'm going to start by reviewing a melancholy story that I discussed here during the last term, January 28, 2014. Then, in the news, a 21 - year - old Spanish woman had been convicted and would be imprisoned in Iceland for drug smuggling. This young woman brought a pack of alleged cocaine found in her underwear. Therefore, the vagina had been squeezed into her vagina from two men. One held it while the other trolled it in. When she arrived in the country, she could not get rid of the other package, so she was transferred to the Southnesian Institute for Health. There she was decided to move to the Women's Hospital Department, where she was put to sleep and drugs from a doctor. In the judgment she received, she puts it word for word, with the permission of the president: The charge is in line with other evidence, and her testimony that she was forced to travel is credible. The defendant is convicted of the conduct reported on, but her offense is indicted as a court of justice. (b) How can we show that we have a measure of respect for Jehovah's ways? A respectable president. There was no disagreement over the fact that the accused was a victim of a man's room and in the most unpleasant side, as I have, unfortunately, had to describe. It was 2013 that she arrived in the country, and I gave this talk in 2014. Back to the bill and the second part of it. It's just a matter of time. What happens when a person's victim joins in a criminal act like the one I described here, which was a drug addict? Will we, then, punish the victim of the man's hall? Now I think that everyone thinks it's wrong, and I think, in fact, the lawyers and the police who were involved in it in their time did not. Of course, they are the same as he is. The details I find in the bill why a person's endurance does not take responsibility, see, for I feel that he is not right in this timeline. The bill's report points to a change in the law of No. 149/2009, but in that bill, the article is referred to in more detail, paragraph 26. A contract that requires annuity from punishment. According to it, victims are not punished for their involvement in illegal activities, as if forced to do so. Then it says: ▪ Here you can look at 74. g. a general penal law. A respectable president. In fact, there are laws that I am not quite sure that I really understand myself, but those regulations were applied to that time and were in effect in 2013. For example, in 2018, February 21st, a news report was published in Science that described carriers having had insufficient protection as human tolerancers. They review it, and they speak to the South's Police Alda of Hrönn Jóhannsdóttir. It discusses that those who receive animals here find this difficult, but of course, the prosecution is deciding on the charges and the courts. No, that's the right answer. That's the way the police are supposed to work. The problem, says in the story, is legislation. As far as I can see, the same problem already exists in current legislation, including 74 p.m. a general penal law thought to offset this, and it's important to meet this and get this straightened out. Again, I'm going to give myself the notice that the case is not over at the Council and that it may be possible to correct it. However, I would also like to point out that this is not necessarily the case in itself. This case can totally go through without our handling it. However, these are related factors. This bill is only about the criminal responsibility of a human being, but as is so often when we're dealing with problems in our community, we're going to go through a lot of trouble with the workers, but we're going to forget about the wrongs and forget about victims. It is very common in discussions about things that are supposed to be punished or supposed to be punished, not only in human halls that all agree, of course, to be illegal and punished for things they should be punished for, but also when it comes to people in the sex industry or drugs or other problems, real as well as the alleged ones who want to react under penalty laws. We will often place so much emphasis on the doer and the possible legitimate hatred of the doer that we forget the victims of the situations we are trying to fight. Of course, I hope that it's going to be all right. I also wanted to bring up another subject, and I have only more time than the unique answers I've made so far. This is not in itself relevant to the subject of this bill. It is more about how I think it is important that we create a society that is as free as possible. I know as we all know, and I don't have to give a tenth to all who embrace freedom for the millionth time, that as far as freedom reaches only the freedom of others. That's obvious. It involves it and should not have to be explained, let alone the same thing as it is done, but we should try to live in the most freest society in which we may at least try to control people. It is because we hope that we abhor the efforts of people to rule one another in an illegal and unjust way. That's what human halls are about. It is also so in our society, despite the love of freedom, that we need to control people to some extent. We need to force it to pay taxes, for example. We need to force it to follow traffic laws. We need to force people not to hurt one another, not steal from one another. We do so by force. That power is necessary. I can't keep it in a democracies community. But when we try to deal with problems, such as the sex industry or its negative consequences, drug abuse, or negative consequences, we tend to find a sense of justification for making our society less free. The link there with this and the human room in general is that each time we make people less free to the authorities, we have an ideal situation for the oppression of individuals between us. The more free society is to the authorities, the harder it is to use the authorities as an oppressive tool toward others. Of course, this is also true when it comes to human ethics and social subspecies. Whenever another person can be threatened by going to the police about something that other than that would never come up, there are circumstances of oppression. Freedom love may be little more than a loathing for oppression, and that's why I think it's bad. That is why I believe that having the community as free is an independent and positive goal. We need to reason on what areas and up to what extent it is likely. It's just our job, and we have to do it, and the fight for freedom is never over, it's never over. But we're supposed to lean on the direction of freedom. We are to make people who are involved in some kind of oppressive relationship, whether with an officer or with a slave girl or with another person, a mate, anything that is easier to break free from the oppressive union. The more authorities have to offer such ones and the less that the authorities have to threaten them, the better. You see, it's all connected. While people have always, probably before we became the animal species we are, trying to blackmail one another, forcing jobs that they don't want to work and that they can't even win, we are bent on making rules for our community. They can be good, and they can be bad. We sometimes place wicked laws that promote oppression, laws that reduce people's freedom, freedom to action, not only against the State but also against one another, and it's bad because of the same reason, in the same way that we hate the manpower and oppression, we must love our freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. That's one thing I'd like to get a little better at, you know. Senator. In the conclusion of a series of articles with the bill, we will discuss the responsibilities of menial failures and refer to a European Convention on Human Use. Twenty-six. That contract is required for annuity from punishment, so as such, victims should not be punished for their involvement in illegal activity, for they had been forced into it. That too is quoted at 146. the treatment of criminal cases allowing the prosecution to fail the prosecution if the defendant has caused unusual suffering for himself or other special reasons would recommend a loss of the prosecution, as it is necessary to feel that public interest will not require a lawsuit, as it says the report concludes in those words. Thus, both criminal law and general penalties are included in the situation of victims in this situation and under the recommendation of these laws. I would like to ask him if he believes that this material is not enough, to take in a legitimate way the responsibilities of lawbreakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u102	A respectable president. It doesn't look like it's enough to do, considering the data I've been looking at so far. But that's right, the conclusion of the report will comfort you a little if you worry about it. It looks like it's a good place in the 74th floor. a general penal law and a record of 146. the treatment of criminal cases. My problem is that those laws existed in 2013 when the man's case took place that I discussed earlier. The Southnes police still thought this to be a problem in 2018, so it appears that at least the Southnes police do not use these laws so that they themselves would like it when it comes to drug carriers. So I think it's still a problem. I'm not quite sure how this would represent the Supreme Court. I looked for the court case, and it seems to me that it was not appeald in its own time but that the County Court of Smoking pronounced a sentence against this woman, she simply went to prison, and the matter was discussed no more than that. However, it is evident from the 2018 report that the Southnes police, at least, still feel that the project is this way because of the law, so there is a misdemeanor somewhere. Exactly where it is or exactly how to fix it is not completely clear to me. But, yeah, I think it's clearly a problem that needs to be handled in some way and, again, nothing necessarily with a change in this bill. I think this is important because when it comes to eliminating bad things in society, it is so often that we forget to look at the victims and break down and what the consequences of our laws are for them. We get caught up in punishing the wicked one, but let us forget to consider the interests and rights of those who are offended.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u103	Mr. President. There's another thing I'd love to do. The senator will leave as soon as I thank him for the answer. It is this: When a person repeatedly points to experience, to form neighboring nations and nations, he has responded. A senator, and last before most of this discussion, is that this is a disorder because someone has some opinion, somehow, is not a reason for that view to be correct. Of course, referring to the experience of others and evaluating policy policies, to governments in neighboring countries, is just a normal method and has nothing to do with logic. It does not say that such reasoning is illogical. A senator is saying. This is the most natural thing in the world, learning from the results of others, and learning from the mistakes of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u104	A respectable president. I am thrilled to learn from the mistakes of others, for I could not do much without them, even deeply appreciate the mistake, of learning from them. But it is not quite the same to address a problem that everyone agrees on and then some solution that everyone agrees on and apply to some problem we have here. The paint I'm hearing is, there was some problem out there that someone used law-changed to keep us going, and we should do the same. As soon as we get into something exactly, the only problem is to start talking about the refugees who come here, that there's a problem, that it costs too much money, and then, of course, the social troubles I've sensed that people don't talk about here in a pita because that's the least of a problem. That's what we're supposed to be talking about, not that socializing in some northern country has concluded that they're so popular or gay. A respectable president. I just didn't choose these classes in the North, and I don't care what they think, I'm just not a part of them. That's why it doesn't give me anything to work with when I'm due. A senator talks like that, doesn't give me anything to work with. I have nothing to say to you, that makes me feel that this is a lack of logic, a respectable president. We'll discuss this later, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk, it is always interesting to listen to his point of view. What I just wanted to do is that the purpose of these changes in the penalties, regulations 227. Gr., is trying to match a man - made trade and to be more in line with international agreements that have been made in that area. But the question is: Does this adjustment of the law really come about by itself? Will it reduce the number of cases involving mansale? Because tolerancers in these areas show great distrust to both the authorities and those who offer assistance. It is a natural reaction to these individuals who, in some cases, are in a human room, whether in construction work or prostitution or whatever, have negative experience in dealing with the authorities. This is shown in a report made by the U.S. Marshal in 2010. What I wanted to go through with that. A senator is how he provides for us to work on these matters. Here's the adjustment of the law that's a step in the right direction. How, though, can we work on these matters so that it is easier to analyze the person's room and get the victims to cooperate with the government and try to eliminate these people, the bacteria in these difficult and difficult matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u106	A respectable president. It is likely to be a two-, three- or multiple problem. Part of the problem is that people come from different cultures, where governments differ in different ways. In some parts of the world, corruption is rampant in society, and in some places it is small, and, of course, its forms are very varied. There's a catch. I don't see how that problem will be solved differently than by credible instruction, which, of course, may be a problem because of the above - mentioned distrust. But the second is that it has to be clear to me in dealing with the authorities at all levels that working with the authorities will not cause the human sacrifice to fail. There are two persons whom the human sacrifice might fear; on the one hand, the doer, the slave girl, or what we call them; and the potential authorities. When we were not well aware of the laws surrounding the failure of a man's ability to break the law, I think it's hard to build trust. If we are completely clear about that, it may be easier to build it up. But in the long run, and I realize that this is not a magic solution, it is most important to me that the community in general sent the message that it is difficult to blackmail people with threats to the government of people. If my workman eats cannabis and I find out one day, it's better that the person doesn't fear being arrested or disembarred or whatever for that. It weakens me as an officer who would want to oppress the person by using the State as some kind of threat to behavior that the person has shown, forced, or not forced. [[The president calls.]] I believe in a general free society, that freedom is an important part of this. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this is not a unique or simple problem, and there are many things to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is excellent. That's a very interesting discussion. There is also a public wake-up, that the public can identify these things independently. This is a growing problem, as we know, and there have been cases of severe ill health, e.g. foreign workers who come here. I would have felt that learning had to be improved, as was the case. A senator rightly mentioned, that is a good point, and also in the case of law enforcement, but nevertheless, that the public has been aware of how many situations this can be handled. A report by the State Marshal lists many areas. [[The president calls.]] It's all the community, and it's all over the country. [[The president calls.]] I don't have a direct question, but this is an introduction to it as a dog. A senator came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u108	A respectable president. Hv. A senator did not directly direct a question to me, but I still appreciate it. Recently, I heard from BBC World Service the story of a man from North Korea who had fled to South Korea. His story was the same and is usually in that situation. The South Koreas treat their siblings a little strange from the north. That has always left me with a measure of heartache. I thought about it a little, and I thought it would be odd if I lived in an overly free society, but then there was another community on the other side of a very thin border where the same nation had the same history until relatively recently, the same language that was in a disgusting situation. And people fled the circumstances and entered a society that was basically healthy, but they were not friendly and would not be welcomed. Now, we don't live in some kind of North Korea/Correu situation in Iceland, but it's our siblings who come from oppressive circumstances that speak strangely in our opinion, may not know the same things we do, but they have a different kind of experience and other ways of living and other ways. I find it extremely important, in the community sense, that we are tolerant of it because the only way to free people from such affliction is to offer them something better. [[Mr President is sorry it didn't take about one minute. (Pray forward.) There's no need to ask an answer to that question, to be clear.]] There is no need to ask an answer to that question.)
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. The senator is just as reasonable as always. We're talking about some adjustments, if I put it that way, i.e. Some things are being added to victims of human halls. But what I want to ask you is why. A senator explains whether he agrees with me that it is also important to strengthen the law enforcement officers as we seek to improve the rights and the environment in which victims of human halls live, when such ones come up, or when individuals turn to us as victims of human halls, or when we find that they are victims of human halls, any sort of manage that they may be, there are many kinds of them. That the police and possible border control, as well as the rest of those who monitor and try to prevent or expose mansals, get possible if necessary, raise funds, tools and tools, sources, and the like. I know what you're doing. A senator whether we can do better in that area, i.e. might pull into the country sooner, informing of more human affairs, preventing more criminals from getting away with smuggled into the country, or bringing them into captivity in our country, by strengthening the law enforcement and the defensive environment that we have?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u110	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Hjaltason Gautiçi, quoted earlier as saying that we are not doing well enough when it comes to giving the police what they need to do to fight a man - made dealer. It lies and in itself is not controversial. It may be possible to debate how we would like to respond. I personally agree with the above. A senator when it comes to strengthening the police in order to create funds, training, and the like and to give her a right to strike, just as an example. You can see that if the executives for the rules we set do not have the volume to enforce the rules, they will reduce their impact and will be sought in other ways. I often take it as an example: If two police officers meet ten people who are in a scene and need to be addressed, the officers may take the weapon more personally than if there are six police officers involved in the same group. Having the police, and including the border guard, well-finished, well paid enough, and educated enough to deal with the problem is a key factor in the ability of legislation to work. Then, of course, we'll debate how liberal the rules should be. I'm not particularly fond of quoting Davíð Oddsson, but I have to tell him that the rules are meant to run, but the game is supposed to be free. That's how I see it. We are to have the smallest need for law enforcement and for these institutions and the items we use, such as prisons and border guard and the kind of force we use. We need this, it needs to work, and this needs to be well financed, but we should use it as little as possible, even if we can achieve the desired goal. It's not necessarily simple. But just to answer that, I believe the fact that the police and the border guard are sustained enough to fulfill their role.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u111	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. You see, that's a very good thought. We should have clear rules and good rules, and we should have them so that it is clear what is within these rules so that the game can be free. But I'm at the place where I think that, in view of the reports I've read, e.g. From the Marshal's office, it's also important that these of us have potential more extensive sources. I can't explain exactly what it takes, I make it clear, but that the police and the people working on these matters have sources, whether there is more cooperation with abroad or some sort of premeditated authority, or what it is called, I now saw some new name on this the other day, I can't remember what it is, but at least it can be interrupted sooner. That's what I want to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u112	A respectable president. I'm very afraid of premeditated authority, especially in general, of wanting to take on such drastic measures to solve the problems. There will always be a problem in our society where none of us ever want to see any offense. At the same time, however, we also live in a liberal democracy and should no longer want to live in some different kingdom. Pre-active research warrants and comparable means of creating aside ways by the citizen's ability to protect his rights too reduce these liberal democracies in my opinion. And that's why I'm against it. I'm just going to leave them for me. But it's always there, and it always will be, and whenever the authorities want to go too far, which I'm not saying these authorities want to do, but whenever they want to do it, whether it's in Beussland or Poland or Hungary or in the United States or wherever, it's because of public safety. That's always the safety point. Sometimes problems are created, and sometimes problems that are not as large as left, and sometimes they are misapplied to some health problems such as drug addiction are turned into criminal problems to justify the entire follow-up and intelligence program. But it's a certain saltwater on which I don't think there will ever be a complete solution. At least I feel that the first step is always to finance and train enough, at least to get to that place first, I think it's a key. All of us should agree on this and should be able to get there, and then I will happily continue to reason with that reasoning. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-02-105.u113	Madam President. In many respects, the discussion here has been very interesting. The subject has been discussed in an issue that does not endorse much. Actually, the right environment is being improved, or legalized, for the tolerability of the man's room is an enormously serious lesion, and not just for our community, but in the world's society. Of course, it's a huge concern that it is such a big business, let's say, for criminals to cheat and cheat people, to abuse them, to sell them into slavery, and whatever we call them. This is a subject that many international institutions have taken to heart, as we know, and much is being discussed, but it is going badly. I don't have the solution to root out human halls, but we must want to do something. Of course, we need to improve the rights of those who tolerate such crimes. We also need to try to prevent such crimes and capture or catch up the criminals selling people into slavery. Such parties need to be prosecuted and judged. It's a lesion in every community, it's clear. But there are also many factors involved. People who seek a better standard of living on the run are ideal victims, as it were, those who practice human halls. We also know stories of and even cases of kidnapping, especially of women and children, and of some kind of slavery, whether of slavery, prostitution, or abuse. All these horrible stories we read, and all of us need to pay attention to our young ones in the elimination of mansales. Some years ago, I had the privilege of meeting with the then secretary - general of the United Nations Refugee Organization, who made mansal a special subject and warned of the man - made refugees, especially children. When children are sent forth, perhaps from poor homes, even some children, in quest for a better life, they often become, at least examples, from criminals, from plunderers, or from some form of slavery known as human halls. At that time, it was being warned that countries became special advocates of accepting such individuals, i.e. not to induce children to go, and at the same time urge for criminals to observe and try to get to the point of those who care for them. Therefore, it is very important for us, that my knowledge, to be completely clear in our language and, of course, in our action, that we do everything we can to prevent people who don't want to be here, may be sent here or somehow conned, that they'll come here with us. Maybe it's better to land here than anywhere else, they can have an opinion about it, but we should try to stop it from working that way. I'm also going to take a few minutes to mention one thing that I think is important to the whole case, but it's that police and people who monitor and try to prevent mansales - and I'm trying to stop them from happening - have the capital and, of course, those who work to try to find out how to abuse people in this way. I agree with that. A senator who spoke before, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, in terms of funding and good training. We also need to give these authorities permission to investigate, sources to prevent, if possible, that such a violation may occur or to intervene sooner if the offense cannot be prevented. It may take money, knowledge, experience, or some form of knowledge to have increased cooperation. I'd be happy to admit that I don't know it well enough. The big picture must be that we watch this lesion from the overall context, what we can do with the picture in mind. We need to have our place clearly in all of this. A clear message has to be sent from Iceland regarding everything involved in organized crime. A U.S. Marshal's report has pointed out that organized crime has to be closely linked to these human activities, the lesions of human beings, and therefore we need to look very strong to provide funding or to open up the means by which our law enforcement agencies need to intervene and to prevent the development of organized crime. Mr. President. I'm sorry to say that it seems to me that the present government has completely failed in the efforts to prevent further legalization from taking place here. I'm not saying that such an operation has begun in the past of this government, not at all, but the footprint seems to be greater, and the scope seems to have increased greatly. Of course, we also need to do our cooperation abroad through our relationships and our contacts or institutions, the embassies for that reason, or international institutions, we need to be strong there, come in strong enough to get knowledge and to share in preventing and dispensing such activities in the same way. First and foremost, I want to emphasize here that we continue to discuss openly all aspects of the miserable business of human beings, that we continue to improve the tolerance of these crimes, and that we will do everything we can to keep international crime organizations from opening up any further roots here than is expected, and that we are working closely with our fellow workers abroad in preventing and eliminating the activities of these organizations. Sadly, we have recently seen a picture of this activity, when individuals have died because of some type of enterprise or what it is. We need to shoulder responsibility. We need to keep our legislation clear, and we also need to send a clear message to the world that Iceland is not, and that it will not be a place for crime to grow and thrive, and there is no greater responsibility than the State's authority. Of course, if we have a problem at the General Assembly, we need to shoulder that responsibility and give extra money to the people who are dealing with it. I can't imagine how envious it is to be the employee of these good law enforcement agencies that we have and deal with this operation, which seems to have grown very fast and much, even though our good people are doing their best. I'm not gonna have this much further. I think it's kind of in itself. I would have chosen to have the need for additional funds and stronger law enforcement officers answered and needed supervision to eliminate these activities. This would improve, and it may be, if the case is taken up between discussions, that there will be a follow - up visit. To say that, Mr. President, I thank you for this discussion and do what I say.
