ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 4th, including Smoke. s., Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir, says she'll be absent in the near future. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of Pirata, in the southern city of Reykjavík, Olga Margrét Cilia.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Ministers of Social and Juvenile Affairs, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u3	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said this weekend that there was a water divorce in the fight with Covid. What he meant by this would likely be one of the insoluble mysteries of politics, for at the same time there will be reports of a severe setback with the appearance of a new group of infections. We do not need to review the sequence of events surrounding a minister's Regulation that was condemned indiscriminately. It expected that the required arrivals from a specific area for a few days would stay in a place of infection. Following the sentence, the government fell from these plans on the border and appears to be guarding great divisions in the government's affairs despite the proclamations of the highest level. Prime Minister about something else. But the situation is this: The government has been reassigned with the actions that she once considered necessary. The border is full of holes, and the control of contours is in an asterisk. At the same time, the government announces a further opening on May 1. Last night, Víðir Reynisson us that the new government monitoring rules, to form phone surveillance, had not prevented the situation that exists today. The driving of people to a deportation facility on arrival in the country would be the most effective way to do so, but since the directive's lack of improvement would be necessary to strengthen the law. So the question is simple, tops. Prime Minister: Does the government think so? What measures will the government take to prevent the growth of the epidemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for this inquiry. I think it is important to maintain the level of infection that we now see can be attributed to the transmission that came across the border, of the uninhibited person, came here to a country by April 1, both to the implementation of the regulations for the environment threats as well as to the implementation of the regulations under which it was condemned. So we need to keep in mind that it is difficult to draw too much conclusions about the current measures from this particular infection. But this does not change the fact that we need to look at how we can ensure that the rule we have had on the border, which is in many ways very efficient and good, i.e. twice the screening requirement for a negative PCR test and cross-infection is respected, since, in reality, this infection does not revolve around the system itself, but that people do not follow the arrangement. And that's very sad. It is only natural that all of us here at the Council now sense resentment for those who seek to follow the rules and now see the consequences of such offenses. Hence, it was decided to take action within the current legal framework. And because I was asked somewhere whether the legislation was some kind of mistake on the part of the Lawgiver, I don't think so. I think that the lawgiver then spoke clearly. So the first reaction of the government was to examine how the box could be developed within the current code of law. What I've said, however, as well as the highest. Healthcare Minister is that if we do not measure that it is inadequate, we are, of course, ready to examine the laws to ensure that these incidents do not recur. It is, of course, a great damage caused by one such offense, and it is utterly unacceptable how much damage such a offense can cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for I must ask myself, " How long will the government take to determine whether these changes need to be made? ' It's the highest. The prime minister has provided support for such legal procedures in the administration? Although it tells itself in the media that there is much harmony in that home, I do not know whether to refrain from heeding a number of government officials who say they will not support it. But the United States is ready to take the heat away from the government, and we are ready to have a bill for changes in the treatment laws allowing Ministers to oblige people who come here for a stay in a diseasehouse. It's based on Þórólfur's proposal. So I ask, is it the highest? If it is immediately and ready to continue listening to our experts, would the prime minister be willing to support such a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u6	Mr. President. I haven't stopped listening to experts, so I'll tell you what. A senator made that clear. I had an excellent meeting with a health care professional this morning, since we are in almost every day's relationship when things are the way they are now. In short, I would like to answer the question so that since the court order was not supported by a health minister's regulations, the task was to consider what could be done within the current legal framework. This is already done by extra surveillance and inquiry at an airport. We see that the disease - control hotel is being used to a considerable extent by people who come here and choose it themselves because of the lack of circumstances to maintain the environment. However, we have been considering the possibility of a change of law. That work actually began as soon as that judgment went down. But the nature of the matter, we wanted to look for ways within the current legal code first. These decisions, such as all others in this pandemic, have been continuously reviewed. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to tell you exactly what the outcome is, but I can assure you. A senator that the objective of the government is to do as well as we can in choking down this epidemic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u7	A respectable president. I've been coming here a few times and talking about my economic situation. I have identified the dangers of foreign borrowing the government, which they decided to make at great risk for the entire nation. We know the consequences. We also know that the route of the government is even. making room for more seas. The restoration has pointed out other ways that, of course, are attacking the root of the problem and linking the crown with a constant currency. All I want to do is talk about our government's latest business in the economic hardships we face. There's a lot of good things the government has done, but I think we'll all agree that even so. The debt of a state fund and how we can make room for employment to run faster so that economic growth will ultimately be greater than the interest. The priorities of financial programmes are that growth is low. Now everyone is predicting that interest will rise. The government's budget to 2025 also points out that inflation is changing slightly, as is true, that the course will continue. There is, of course, strong evidence that this concept of the government will not be maintained. Well, then she's planning to come here for the council, with the advantage of using national pensions to finance, we can say, rather lean on government funds for a long time. And by the time we see the calculations, it's really a silly failure of a pensioner. So I would like to ask: Did the labor movement first consult? Second, were they consulted with the Fégage of senior citizens and pensioners? Was there a single interest in this case at the government table? [[The president calls.]] Was there a solid agreement to form in the council of the left green on this matter, and were there no priors on the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The inquiry, which, in fact, came on quite a few things. I must begin by saying that it is a very ridiculous hearing to argue here in the General Court that the government is about to begin. Hv. A senator remembers as much as I do what the situation was like before the country went into the 2008 currency capital, when governments had no control tools to deal with money flows between countries other than the UN Bank Management Fund, which were raised to 18%, which was the only control device that could be used because there was no national receiver available in the legislation. I hope so. A senator doesn't want to go back there because I don't think that's what anyone else wants. You see, the bill is like that. However, the principle that currency exchanges, as well as payments and capital movements between countries, are free and undisputed, is based on the principle that any person in the international discussion has developed an increased understanding of the need for some kind of means to limit money flow in some way. The values here for the 2008 collapse are on the decline, and this is why it is of particular concern to a small economy, such as ours that there are certain national communicators that can weaken the motivation for capitalism that poses a more serious system risk. And such measures are always much weaker in nature than in order to form the oceans set here after the collapse. Hv. A senator noted that the solution to this is to link the crown to euro, and let us see what this will mean, and we are also familiar with that discussion from this time on. I was also a member of the embassy who went to Brussels and requested that we be allowed to adopt etrusively or enter a constant love relationship with that medium without joining the European Union and receive a strong negative answer. But, actually, it's a much bigger deal, I think, and it's no reason to follow any other decision that Iceland will walk in the European Union, which I wouldn't think. [[The president calls.]] I'm just gonna get to the pensions and set down the special property here in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u9	A respectable president. Prime Minister did not get out of his habit, nor did he answer questions. The government's counsel is to use currency princes without a democratic approach, and we're pointing to it. No one is talking about returning to 2006, 2007, or 2008. Nobody. They're talking about and pointing out that Iceland's government has a completely different route than any other nation facing the same virus, the same crisis as that of Iceland. However, inflation is eight times higher in terms of e.g. correspondent in Denmark We have more unemployment here than anywhere else, a relative increase in unemployment due to the virus. Let us keep these facts in mind. I reiterate the question: Did the labor movement have a consultation on the matter related to the pension fund and the failings, the chicken failure, for pensioners? I've been consulted, and I'm praying to the highest. The prime minister to notice, on the labor force? Did they consult with older citizens? Was there a monogamy at the government table at the hearing? [[The president calls.]] Wasn't there a senator's left-hand green on account of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u10	Mr. President. Hv. A senator says that I will not answer questions but will have to accept that this is an answer when she claims that the sea is being set. Such false information cannot be ignored. Then I wonder, " What is it? ' A senator is witnessing a bill to legalize the currency because it has been claimed that the plan is to place a head on the pension fund, which will reduce the benefit of pensioners. That's not what this case is about. It's about being used here for special, unexpected situations, not to apply a pension fund or other general limitations. In case of a moment. A senator is referring to the calculation of insurance in another bill on the specified special property, I'd like to say that there is another sort of case that I believe is about the fundamental principles involved in the pricing and insurance bills. [[The awards.]] While no special warnings were given on the basis of the two panels of green green and green, we believe it is very important that the basic change in terms of sharing and speciality is discussed in that bill, and I expect the committee here at the council to oversee it in detail. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u11	A respectable president. Unfortunately, it's what you fear most, because the virus has come a long way. Twenty-seven Korean virus infections within the country, 49 this weekend. Of the 27 who were diagnosed yesterday, 25 were infected. This is misleading, however, because most of them went to an environment on Saturday. 386 under aseptic conditions and 922 in a screening environment. At the same time we're being completely overrun, Australia and New Zealand are opening up a free flight between countries. Free flight, no masks, nothing wrong. Two island nations that showed exactly how to fight the virus. But our government has nothing to do with plan B or C, it's about you, æ or Ö.. People with underlying diseases are finally being vaccinated. It is some 30,000 people, sick people who have been isolated for months and who have not been able to follow a meal, let alone order online because of poverty. Oatmeal in the morning, oatmeal in the evening. An amazing number of oatmeals can be bought for the rise in child repairs, said the highest. Secretary of finance. It's the highest. Does the prime minister agree with him and not consider the time of the poor to be here? Is the government on its schedule now to do something for this small group of poor people, such as the highest. Secretary of the budget thinks they're the group? If their time has come, what is being done? And if not, why is there no part of the government program for this group today, a sad situation in which it does not represent the date of the month?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I thought why. A senator asks about two things, and I'm going to start with the first one regarding the situation in the epidemic. Of course, Mr. President, the Icelandic government has done a tremendous job in this struggle, and this is primarily because of the wonderful professional we have here in a country that has given us advice and, on the other hand, because of its solidarity in this struggle. I don't think we're supposed to belittle how the situation's been here if we run, for example. Just with other countries in Europe. A much less efficient approach has been made, here has been an efficient national approach, and here has been based on the ideologies that we trust people. Of course, when people do not prove to be trustworthy, it is frustrating. It takes so few people to do much damage, and it's sad. But I believe that we should not lose our trust in people but always take a measure of moderation in what we do. We have done so, so we will always have a clear view that we are going to protect the lives and health of the people of the land. For those who have many, like otters. A senator points to, naturally, very recent outbreaks, and because of underlying diseases, I rejoice that the practice of immunization is in a way that today we see that older people, people with underlying diseases, and forward - to - earth people are gradually reaching safety. There's a lot of news now that makes the situation so much brighter than it was before. in that respect we can see that we put these fragile groups to safety, that the damage caused by infections gradually decrease in our society, and that all of us can begin to have things that are getting closer to normal life. In later years, I'll find out more about it. A senator asked about the economic situation of these groups. Of course, we've talked about it many times, and it can't be said that we've made it easy, for many of our measures have just been reversed to improve the position of the most efficient groups, as I will go over the following. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I can't agree with her. Yeah, we've done some good things, but we should be in the same place as New Zealand and Australia, we could do it easily. If only we had followed the experts back then. They're talking about what we were doing now before April 1st, it didn't matter because it was before that virus came in, but we were supposed to have done something long before. We were supposed to have taken care of it a long time ago, and we thought it was being done at the time when we were putting the new Center for Disease Control. I'm repeatedly asked if I haven't had a shot long ago, vaccination. I say no. Then I am told the government has received a vaccine, but I have no idea. But the other questions that people are asking about are the remaining extra doses. Has it entered the board of governments who receive these extra doses of vaccine? There was one person who said to me the other day: I was called in, I was supposed to get vaccinated, and I have no idea why, I wasn't in any priority group. She got an extra shot.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u14	Mr. President. I could count a few things, including. improvements for the most income-employed microenergy pensioners, how we have reduced the decline, whether we have reduced taxes, especially in the most lucrative groups, reduced health costs, increased social housing support, and adopted new credit classes for those buying their first apartments. All of this aims to meet the more efficient groups of income. Two as good as any. A senator says that I think I also have to answer: Hv. A senator said that we had not listened to the experts in the border. It's just not right. The system we have on the border is consistent with the advice of experts. The decision at the time to pick up a simple screening - at the same time, with experts'advice. The decision to look to green areas at that time - in the beat with the advice of experts. The decision of August 19 to record a double screening and quarantine - in line with the advice of experts. A negative PCR test - in the beat with expert advice. There's no way to say something if they don't have an opinion, and it doesn't hold any opinion. Finally, Mr. President: No, I have not been vaccinated, and of course other ministers have not been vaccinated nor have they been vaccinated, and I'm still a long way off by age. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll wait a minute till I get my turn.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u15	Mr. President. Information is valuable. Whole corporations are only working to get and share information. There is a close link between information, knowledge, and power. If everything is known about individuals, groups, or even entire states, it is easier to control or influence them. When it comes to information, there are conflicting interests. Economic differences can be a threat to the security of the State and to the public. In some cases, information can determine the outcome of the future of countries and nations, certain causes of security, or threaten national security. It is important to strengthen a regular work in this country on information collection and sharing. It is no less important to be aware of who owns the companies that collect information. Where do you lie, e.g. The boundary between intelligence and intelligence? How are scouts defined? Are they allowed in some case? When is the situation crossed, and what is the penalty? In this country, there is a law on international investments in business, No. 34/1991. They are already in their years and have not been updated for a long time. They take into account the traditional industry in Iceland, the energy, the fish and property. In recent years, world tensions have increased, and the technological revolution has indeed taken place where both technology and information become ever more important. Still, the laws have not been updated. Therefore, a business with technical companies which may be necessary for the safety of Icelanders or companies with vast amounts of information, e.g. about the Icelanders, not about the mind or the limitations. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of Justice whether it is not necessary and whether it is being done to revise the laws on foreign investments in business, especially in the light of what I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I don't know any better than this law doesn't come under the Ministry of Justice, but it's for the sake of professionals and innovations who handle these laws, the case area is under the order of the President's decision. There are, of course, some important factors to consider in terms of intelligence and the storage of information. But because of him. A senator specifically asks about these laws, I now have to refer it to another minister, since the legal matter does not cover these legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u17	Mr. President. That's how it's answered. A minister is natural enough to make a difference. Has the highest. A minister does not believe that this matter is a national security issue? Then it's going to be the best. Ministers to have a view of the need to revise the law even if it does not hear directly under a minister. I must say, Mr. President, this answer will surprise me completely, I must say just as it is. Perhaps this indicates that these matters are just not all right with us at all. We've heard about it and we've seen it like that. in March that a foreign enterprise fund bought more stock in a large company in Iceland that collects information on Iceland and the company collects tremendous amounts of information. We see that foreign people are gathering information here, and that must be national security. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, since she answered completely crazy in the previous answer, what's the bottom line? A minister is to say that companies that collect information on Iceland are fully owned by foreign sources? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or is it not within the task force of a minister's reply to that inquiry? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u18	A respectable president. I don't know any better than that. A senator asked if it would be appropriate for the Minister of Justice to examine these laws. Therefore, I replied that there is no consideration for the Minister of Justice, since these laws are not subject to the Minister of Justice. For these legislations, I'm sure it's true. A senator that this is part of national security and is being carried out as a whole policy in terms of all the legislation to be considered for national security, national security, domestic and non-consistency, and how well the state needs to keep information on its table, as well as what it is. There's a senator coming in. I trust that there's an opinion in the Department of Professional Road and Development if there's anything in this law that has to be taken special care of. Of course, a new law and policy on national security is an extremely important tool to keep an eye on all these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u19	President. Now that the fourth wave of the outbreak appears to be coming upon us in this country, there are only 11 days before the arrival of tourists in the country with the government's colour code set up in an unfashioned, disease - control system. It will be unchanged on May 1. Then travelers from so - called green countries, yes and orange countries, will escape the epidemics on the border. If they return a PCR certificate to their destination, they will have one scan at their arrival and will escape the contingency. The prime minister has previously said that this system takes into account the situation of the epidemic, which is good. The risk of traveling from green countries is low, it says, the green color is a kind of health certificate. So I ask: How will the government make sure that people have only visited in green countries and orange countries, not before? People are misinformed about it, as if it were broken under siege. Now, we know that the PCR test was that a PCR certificate was issued at the exit, a lie in the country, an aseptic bed for five days, and a screening. There was a possibility of letting go of this contour and screening, but the fact is that 6% does not return, does not comply, breaks the contours. That's why we get back this infection. How can we keep the process based on what has happened today? We know they've changed. Throughout the world, experience shows that the lives and health of the people and the economy of the state, the livelihood of the households, can be protected by certain restrictions on freedoms. The choice that we seem to have is to place harder restrictions on the borders or more severe limitations within the country. The best way to protect normal life and the possibility of a traveler within the country is to increase the size of the border. This is what is in the balance; civil rights of people within the country, people's right to have a normal life and real Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] The only chance we have is to tighten our borders, but this color code opens them more and beyond what we know is not advisable. [[The president calls.]] What will prime minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson before and I think he's having two things in his query. On the one hand, that is what we've been through before in this time of inquiry that's broken down. I don't think a color code really has anything to do with it. As in the situation today, everyone should go for five days except for those from Greenland. They are the exception of measures, since they are estimated from the low risk zone of our disease - control doctor. Of course, this is difficult to deal with, for most people respect the rules and keep the environment disease under control. It is very important that governments find a way to control those who break the habit, keep the rules, and cause untold damage by their actions, without necessarily affecting all the others who are doing their best and conforming to the rules. This is a solution we are facing and we are working on ways to approach, including with which the decision was made to follow the conviction of the Regulation and to take military action, but there may be other ways of doing so, as I mentioned earlier regarding possible increased legal rights. Then there is the color encoding system, which has caused considerable debate. I think it's important to keep it in order that when we talked about trying to enter such a system with spring, it was, of course, the first thing about the epidemic situation at home and abroad, second of the implementation, and second, we need to see how our risk assessment measures conflict with this color code system. There are also problems where the changes can be very faster and quickly, let's just look at Iceland, which was green, but it's stopped being green. [[The president calls.]] Third, it is the pleasant change we see, i.e. that the people with the proof that is coming in and through a simple scan were on the first 12 days of April, a quarter of everyone who came to the country. [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is a very pleasant change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u21	President. It's two things, but I'm mainly focusing on the color encoding system. It is the process of tightening the disease prevention, which seems to have to be done because it is not enough to take the lead, with the PCR certificate at the exit, in excess of what was, i.e. this scan, five-day shunts and screening. But that doesn't seem enough. Then I wonder, " Why are the late screenings in the country and also the epidemics for those from green and orange lands? ' This area is not merely tightening the risk of disease, they're removing the contaminants from green and orange countries. I know why they started this thing. Thus, a PCR certificate was published at the exit to determine if this route could be used by the color encoding system, to eliminate subsequent screening within the country, and to monitor for some groups. The fact is, though, that it does not work, so we cannot proceed with a system that was founded on its ability to work and work for the prevention of disease. It needs to be postponed. I can only see that it needs to be postponed, because otherwise there will be forced action within the country. That's what's in the balance. That's what I'm asking you about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u22	Mr. President. I want to say that part of what we've been working on is our own output. It is very important that we place an independent risk assessment of the chromogenic system in the European Union. That is what we have done, and I mentioned Greenland earlier as an example. Of course, something else important in this process is to learn from the evidence. It is of concern that we are seeing cases where there is a negative diagnosis in the previous PCR test, negative for the borders of previous screening, positive for subsequent screening, and then even break the risk of cross-infection in the meantime, although they are in force as well as we have talked a considerable deal in this question period. What I can say. The senator's honesty is that we're going over these matters, and we're planning to land them this week. We have a clear view of how we're going to proceed, and I can assure you exactly what to do. The senator that we are primarily looking to the experience we have gained and the benefits we have so that we can continue to follow what we have done so far, which is, of course, setting the priorities of public life and health in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u23	Mr. President. The 2nd. We expressed concern that electron committees were looked upon as examples in other larger planning decisions. This point will be considered in more detail when the environment and transport committees are addressed between the 2nd and 3rd districts. In view of this, I have decided to withdraw the adjustment that I made to the 2nd River. ... aboutthiscase.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u24	Mr. President. I'm not involved in any more part of the environment and transport committee in this case. This is because of one reason why it is called the electron Committee. It allows a minister to request the executioner of electrical energy transport systems to appoint a special electron committee with the role of preparing, introducing and accepting a battery of functions in the electrical transport system covering two or more rural units and granting its implementation. Thus, a joint planning decision across rural boundaries is taken by the electronic committee. I believe that this is a dangerous precedent for society's own decision-making rights, each in his own territory. Besides, I simply cannot see that this new arrangement will solve the problem it is intended to solve. In many cases, I feel that the State's authority is pushing more and more into the self - determination rights of the local communities. I don't think so. So I won't vote on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u25	President. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came up with what I was going to draw attention to, i.e. to 2nd. was called for a committee between 2 and 3rd. I took my whole mind into it in my speech, and I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the matter could be settled back there. My study is that in a committee party. More than a proportion of the environment and transport committees are well-foundedly aware that this is not in any way an example but is only responding to the situation. Let us remember why we started doing this. It was because of the storm and only because of the storm that we decided to take these steps. But it's going to be settled, like any other point, in the Environmental and Transport Committee, between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u26	V.E.G. President. We discussed this bill last week, Wednesday and Thursday. I want to celebrate the bill that's presented here. It is, as noted, the initial response to Adventist Storms in December 2019, and the campaign group, which provided a number of suggestions for safety following that weather. We've got electrical energy treatment up here and how we set up lines, one pass on the line layers. I want to reiterate, since the bill goes back into what? The environment and transport board between discussions, to consider this, that human understanding is, as shown in the bill, that this applies to the transport systems of the electricity of the Landsnet, so that the directive applies both to the core transport system and then to the national part of the network, individual lines from the ground line that are on the landnet, especially to the storm in December 2018, so that it becomes clear what the environmental and transport authorities want to do about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u27	V.E.G. President. This is a matter of reform, and we shall vote for it by my council. However, in early times I requested that the bill be included with the committee because there are things that are unclear and that we would have wanted to have more information on. As far as it goes in my sense, this is a good bill, but I would have needed better explanations of various things, which are adhered to in the bill. That is why I asked for a committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u28	Mr. President. With the media, we support the effort to be a minority protection that is primarily involved in salmon and trout. However, I wished that the bill would be taken into account, especially by the regulations of Article 3. who appear to be ill - fitting to members of the Committee on Assessment. We do not see grounds for such a situation in a committee that deals with the terms of a fishing partner's legal involvement and the need to exercise complete security. We've appointed members of the Central Party to suggest the adjustment of the proposal to a-part 3rd. ... hedied. Mr. President. I believe I have reason to believe that there is a possibility that the committee could come up with an agreement on this point and therefore bring the requested modification proposal back to 3rd. So we're not going to vote on 3. ... anddoesn'thold 5. which we think we need to discuss further. Otherwise, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u29	Mr. President. It is one of the right symptoms to attack a monitoring facility and weaken the members of the P.R. The present government is no exception. Before the Korean virus struck, she had made the SEC a share in the Federal Bank and was thereafter taken to weaken the Contestance Commission. Although there are still some changes to worry about and to need our first evaluation, we members of the United States protested and improved. The smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee made serious comments on the fact that too little time had been given to write the topic on the Secret Bank and the SEC and felt unacceptable that the administrative part was throwing it into the hands of one of our most important and most powerful institutions. The review of the Federal Bank and the hearings repeatedly stated that little time had been given to create the bill and would have needed more time to examine the changes. Any problem that might arise would have to be diagnosed and evaluated, rolling with each stone. Will independence be stronger for the financial watch to cope with future traumas? That question was not answered, but the smaller part doubted it greatly and suggested other and safer ways. The above concern was that once the Federal Bureau of Economic Affairs had arrived, individual companies could be threatened by the SEC as a branch in the Federal Bank. The evidence is this: We all have to look to that fact when the Sentencing Banker used the Department of Pension and then the issue between Samherja and the bank manager. All that harms the bank manager himself is harming the Federal Bank, for it is of course vital that we trust in the Sentencing Bank, and especially when it is so large as it has now become with the changes made by the government. The smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee and here at the council developed changes, and through us every five years an assessment of how Iceland's Federal Bank has been successful in meeting the steady price targets, financial stability and the implementation of financial monitoring. Other factors, such as planning, operations, and authority, should also be considered. But it was about the S.H.I.E.L.D. Then it's the Contestant. History shows that strong and active competitive surveillance is essential for competitive employment and consumer protection. In a small and small market, the path between size management and active competition must be followed. Most markets are looking for a few races, and this calls for a powerful and efficient competitive surveillance when such a situation makes us a small system, such as this one in Iceland. The changes proposed by the bill at the beginning surely indicated that consumer interests had not been given sufficient attention, and the same was true of my party's position and protection on the market. But the smaller part on the Economic and Business Committee and here at the council brought its dissident to prevent the most serious changes in the bill for Contestance Control. But still there were changes that contributed to large fusions are not announcementary and I feel, Mr. President, there is a very bad change and weakness in the competitive surveillance, especially in the state of the current labour market with a number of small tourism companies who will not trust themselves to get started again; that is evidence that large parties are subsidizing many small companies and thus contribute to the promotion of travel services. However, in their efforts to cut their teeth out of the clinics, the administrative body continued. There was the Secret Bank, and the F.O.B. was here. Contestance watch, it's been weakened. At that time, neighbour's office was weakened. A consumer clinic was organized into an institution. She received an assignment and gave vague messages in the bill's report that the Navigator Office should be fully canceled. There was no thorough investigation or analysis in the consumers and consumer organisations' activities prior to the proposed bill and no objective assessment of the activities of the consumer clinic or of the transport projects was performed. Icelandic consumers have long been in weak position because of the position of the manufacturers and traders of goods and services, and they have every reason to strengthen the position of consumers rather than weaken them, as was done by the Nitet Lab bill. The Norwegian countries have a powerful consumer protection and were allowed by governments to look into these patterns and look closely at the pros and cons of a consumer agent's office having authority. The consumer rights field, for example, could be under such an office, but that field is the only thing left to do as a consumer shop. The laws adopted on March 16 will include the following: that the construction and construction services will carry out tasks that are large and different and with them small. For example, the Agency provides housing loans, oversees the implementation of legislation control systems for SMEs and monitors toys and sledges. Government policy appears to be to cut down money on consumers and reduce the number of institutions, all in the name of convenience. The application follows the obvious risk of being fused through the system and the monitoring reduced with the expected damage to consumers. President. So, it's SEC, the Contestant and the Neytendau, the law is here. Now we're talking about the 3rd. to reduce the teeth of an tax investigator. So, with the bill we're discussing here, the office of the tax investigator should be putting down as an independent agency and making tax research into the tax department at the tax company. To combat tax losses, we in the United States have spoken for the increase in tax research and for the increased independence of the tax investigator. This would result in much more tax returns. When large and complex issues arise, like a study of Panama's documents and the Secret Bank investment route, the population has been in charge of a lack of money and a person's resources. One way to hold an office down is to gain money. Another way is by putting the office down just as the present government would like to do. The bill also suggests changes to the level of fines instead of prosecuting more cases. This will enhance the assessment of the seriousness of offenses and bring in criminal offenses against present - day tax laws. The reason seems to be that the prosecution's performance may not be sufficient, but the evidence, President, is not sufficient for such changes. I'm surprised at the board of directors that they accept such logic in this major case. I criticize the inconsistencies of the bill and that key questions about who should not be answered in a serious matter. Questions arise on whether to disappear from the local programme where an actual investigation will be conducted by the tax investigator and will hide it from the local district attorney or if the investigation is intended to continue for the tax investigator but under the control or at the request of the local district attorney. In order to assess the severity of the event, there is uncertainty about the criteria. If the amount is to be considered, it should be borne in mind that in most cases they will change during investigation. Depending on how an investigation is conducted, a matter that initially deals with small amounts of money may begin to revolve around high amounts and vice versa. Thus, problems may arise between enterprises with the potential for double pain, cost and inefficiency if the bill is approved. Decisions in question, whether or not the case is under tax examination or tax control, are proposed to be in the hands of the head of the tax, not the head of the tax. An tax investigator points out that these are basic and the basis for the independence that has been built and guaranteed for decades. There is also a limit to the independence of the office, which will depend on the government taxpayer's decision on funding, human resources, and all activities. Also, the government taxpayer will appoint the head of a tax research project rather than a minister for the present time and the General Assembly, which has the legal authority, find it harder to monitor whether enough money is provided to investigate serious tax laws. All fractures, regardless of their severity, are now investigated by the same person, i.e. tax investigator. This ensures that all suspected fractures are handled, consistent and consistent with the testing and application of study tools. The goal of tax research is twofold, one of which is the basis for reevaluating taxes and the other. Thus, cooperation takes place on issues involving the tax system and on the other hand, the justice system. It may be that the same events as studies have been carried out in a tax investigation may recur with the local district attorney in another context. It belongs, for example. we need to know when money was considered to have taken place while we're under tax law. The investigation of money is entirely by the district attorney. In Sweden such double action is prevented by providing tax authorities with authorization for the investigation of money. Sweden should be considered in this regard. For over 25 years it has regularly been called attention to the need to eliminate the obvious double action in a tax fraud and economic crime study and the publication of the charges on that subject, both in Congress cases as well as in many reports and analyses. The situation in this country is slow, and it is costly, and it is not in favor of the government or the defendant. Moreover, with a long period of treatment, the risk of a legal case that leads to a milder judgment or even to a more extenuating act, as we have seen. However, instead of uniting the office of tax research directors and government tax managers, it would be much more effective and efficient in serious tax fractions to promote tax research and to prosecute the tax research authorities on the issues of the government's investigation. Thus, double action could be prevented, contributing to a shorter treatment period, and at the same time create a better integration in the study of serious tax fractures. The guilt of tax law requires special knowledge and expertise, both in research and in the prosecution. It helps to be efficient that the same person cares for both. Such forms are known in other countries and including Germany. The pursuit of public life is not easy to identify by cutting out your teeth from tax research in the country. What for, Mr. President? Who is that who is making money out of this puzzle? Later today, I will recommend my bill to grant prosecution to the head of the IRS. That case has been here at the council, and it has not been established. I will advise because the matter that we address here has not been voted to be clear in the press and may be discussed here at the Council, on the other hand, by putting down our office and, on the other hand, by what we in the United States would like to do, strengthen our office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u30	Madam President. I'm sorry about 2nd. and will therefore try to take up what I have to say at the present time. So we start with the positive side, it's a matter of some extent, at least by name, of preventing double punishment. That is an excellent goal, and all can agree that it is the best thing to do. If it was just the case, there may be no basis for any further discussion in the 3rd district. Under normal conditions in a court state, it is normal not to have double punishment, but we should remember that double punishment is not quite the same as the fact that a single investigation takes place within one institution and then moves toward another in time. It's not a double punishment, it's not even a double investigation. It's the transfer as nature changes. So my review of this bill is mainly about two things: one is that support for the operation of putting down the tax research manager's office and creating a department with some comparable roles within the fictitious office is not strong enough, and the other, it is likely that this will reduce the capacity of the institutions of the State to investigate taxes and perhaps mainly the bigger ones. It can be noted that in most countries, the number of taxes is very high, but most of them are small and can usually be solved in a relatively simple way. But more complex and larger fragments are those that are usually difficult to track and process. As a result, it is not unusual for those in bigger tax fractions to simply get away with it. In fact, there is some line, some dot, where people simply start to pay for taking the risk of a major offense, if they have enough complex companies and similar behind them, especially if they cross borders. Perhaps I'll talk a little more about that aspect afterward. Let's just talk about the reasoning first. The reasons for doing this are efficiency and saving, but at the same time, they should have somehow greater and better capacity for a united organisation. You can agree that some form of cooperation occurs when people work at the same agency, but I don't know that it's always hard for people to communicate across institutions. In fact, it is very common in the establishments of the state that institutions are directly designed to have great and close cooperation. These factors may have been resolved. What, then, will be spared? What's the savings? Is it overcrowded? Yes, perhaps, to some extent. But if that were so, it would not be possible, for example. Unites remuneration units and similar activities, reduce overages with the transfers and increased cooperations? Is the rent being saved? Well, maybe, maybe not. However, the evidence of efficiency and saving cannot in itself be too strong unless there is some kind of staff failure and there is only a very limited way to say that there will be a greater possibility. It is obvious to everyone that the decrease in the number of people affects what you can get a lot of work done. The number of tasks is reduced unless there is considerable self - efficiency. In fact, it is quite a specialist, and it is worth discussing how good our tax system is about computer technology and self - efficiency and what is missing so that we can identify the obvious tax collections by some kind of computer diagnostic method. But the other thing is that this is part of the decomposition pattern established by this government. Like what? Harðardóttir Just before, however, a few institutions have been laid down, and many others have been weakened during this term. There are the New Creation Centres of Iceland, which do not know how to sound like a major monitoring agency in the minds of many, but its role in chemical analysis and construction research still had considerable significance there. Also included are the neythians lab, which had a specific surveillance role toward, e.g. toys. It's been added to a Housekeeping and Human Resource Institute, which may not be a specialised candidate for it. It has been put down to some kind of magic analysis there within the house, as an independent agency. This arrangement is yet to be proved. Many of the things that have been warned about in all these demolitions or combinations have either not been given time to examine or have proved to be bad. In such disputes, it may primarily be about the question of whether we should have a few very large institutions, which, in fact, have little specialized, cover a wide range of languages, or very many small ones, and perhaps even beyond the powerless institutions. Of course, there is the right answer somewhere between them. It's easy to say, let's just move all the taxes, especially the big ones, under the district attorney. But the district attorney has a wide range of topics on his case, and if not, the support and support of the district attorney's office, which does not, Mr. President, is likely to be just one more case, which is scarce and does not have enough resources and resources. Remember, there have been complaints from the district attorney's office that there is not enough money to be available to investigate, for example. It's a good deal. This is a concern, especially when the Spanish government, which has considerably less money between hands than the Icelandic government, seems to be successful in researching that matter. Let's put it in perspective with bigger lines. Increasing global globalization has made it necessary for state and law - enforcement to continue in its borders as tax demolitions and tax evasion and any other systemal abuse of holes in national order has increased considerably. It has become so that companies work worldwide very often to adjust their tax issues. Sometimes it is completely legal and even completely natural if they have a job in many countries, but when companies have companies and subsidiaries and even the motherly communities in taxes that have the intent to avoid reducing the taxation of an area and even elsewhere, it's a problem that agencies need to have the ability to do research. It's now about five years since the Panamas were published. The Panama Documents were an interesting project. I worked on their investigation for almost a year before their release. During the last five years, it has revealed that in many parts of the world, there is little room for investigation or lack of interest. It is not likely that this lack of ability and apathy will work together. If you don't want to mention some specific countries in this context, but if you imagine a government in one of the many countries that were discussed in the Panama Documents that covered the powerful rulers, and they might be interested in defending their interests over e.g. People's interests, then, would be one obvious, reasonable step to protect the base interests of setting, for example. the office that has investigated such tax fractions. It would be a great way, especially if the projects were to be named to the other institution, which, in some way, is to take some form of investigation but certainly does not have enough money or authority to cover all that is being done to her, even if she has full and good intentions to do so. This pattern is harmful. We know that this is harmful. In this country, there are examples of harmful behavior. There are cases from abroad that this was harmful. Entire books have been written on how much harm it is to weaken control capacity. When we're making laws, we have to be able to follow them. If we don't follow up on them, they're at best. It's because of this that I say that the logic support for this operation is not sufficiently strong. If efficiency and savings and increased power were to be true, this action would have been followed to strengthen the local district attorney, to strengthen the government's office. It's missing. It's just that way. I don't know what else to say about this, but I'm for my part, I'm bored with the amazingly painful efforts of this government to weaken the entire government's surveillance system. I'm sick of all this vandalism that's going on with the state institutions and I don't think it's going to do any further damage in almost years. But it's an election year now. It may be possible to turn off this wicked path.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This bill is of two ways, including two, like a oar. A senator came to the beginning of his speech. On the one hand, there are changes due to double punishments, which respond to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and to changes in institutional procedures and treatment of tax lawlessness. I want to ask you why. A senator if he doesn't agree with me, how confusing it is when things happen. The senators will proceed with this, and they will make such an issue so important that this is a barrier to double punishment. It's just that the establishment arrangement has nothing to do with double punishment, nothing. It's a personal decision. I feel like a whale. Councilmen highlight the response to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in order to avoid being overly critical of the change of institutions. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he will not agree with me or whether he feels it's not critical that government officials should use this procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u32	Mr. President. It is quite easy to agree with this statement at any given moment. Senator. It may also be interesting that the bill is called double punishment. There's some other word here, but there's nothing in the bill's name about putting down an institution. You would have thought that when you are deciding your name on your bill, the main factors of impact should be followed, the most impact on the subject. There may be minor things in relation to the large things, just like the dog. According to one senator, the debate on the part of the discussion is being bypassed that this issue is, in fact, a small part about preventing double punishment and, to a large extent, about changing the local tax research arrangement. So you're going to say something about this double punishment and put it in context, it's very interesting to read the latter statement by the district attorney on this case because it's a warning not to interfere with something that could change the arrangement of the current events. Actually, I haven't completely figured out what the solution is, other than just not doing anything, at least for now. At least I don't feel clear that these comments have been made by the district attorney, who must be a key figure in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u33	Mr. President. Hv. A senator also came in his speech on a study of the Panama Documents. We had the questionable privilege of worldwide recording many of their landmarks, but we certainly did not have the world's reputation in investigating the fragment of taxes. The last thing I heard about the Panama documents was that there were still about 200 unscrupulous cases and a tax investigator, and the tax didn't have the resources to get through them properly. The same can be said of the Society's investment route. An tax investigator did not have the resources and resources to get through that matter properly. The district attorney doesn't have people, and has said it in the media, or he's saved to investigate fast and well the Samherja papers. I was turning in a financial program for the 20222,226 years ago, and there is also an overview in 2021. These changes are not to be expected there. This is not expected to strengthen the office, whether it is the district attorney, the tax research department in the tax office, or the taxpayer in the whole. These changes are not expected to cost something. Then there is the claim that by making these changes, tax research is being done in Iceland. There's such a misdemeanor. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u34	Mr. President. It may be nice for me to say that my participation in research on the Panama Documents turned to various countries, Russia, Azerbaijan, Czech Republic, Ukraine, and others, but not to Iceland. And it was a little interesting and surprised me on the day it was published how many Icelanders were in these documents, how widespread and broad the problem was in no greater power than this. Most of the cases in Iceland were certainly considerably smaller than those in some places. In Russia or Ukraine, where people had billions of dollars in their accounts, here in the country the largest I know of a few million dollars. The fractures are certainly larger abroad, and the interest in holding back may be lower in countries with a more questionable democratic tradition than Iceland, but that is perhaps because of the reason Iceland should do better. I've heard the same number as what. A senator, that some 200 cases are over. I can't confirm that, I don't have access to better data, but if that's the case, the discussion should be about strengthening these institutions, strengthening the tax investigator's office, so that these matters can be completed. Now I may be exposing my ignorance about these matters, but I expect Iceland to be just a little better when it comes to such a situation than Russia and Azerbaijan, with all due respect for the fine countries. Surely it is the right way to strengthen these institutions rather than weaken them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u35	Mr. President. I would like to start my talk by giving commendation. The delegates of Oddný Harðardóttir and Smári Mccarthy for standing up in this matter and for their well - worked committees'opinion, informative and clear, and nuclear concepts actually distinguishing the core from the man himself, seeing that this is a weakness of surveillance agencies as well as the study of tax frauds that have truly proved themselves in an unscrupulous way to further the development of Iceland. The bill suggests significant changes, as has been attributed to members of the Parliament's speeches, on the established arrangement and on the other hand, treatment of tax fractions. It is of utmost importance that the Council give a clear message that there will be a strong emphasis on the pursuit of tax collections. As noted in the review of the tax investigator, and the 1st lower part of the Economic and Business Committee points out in its members, the World Council's emphasis on anti- fiscal struggles, increased tax research, and improved the independence of the tax investigator's work has played a significant role in increasing exhibiting and protecting the category. It is incredibly important to keep going in the same direction and on the same path as the need for strengthening and growth. It is also very interesting, as stated in Committee 1. A smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, that the benefits of the Union's cohesion with the tax against the benefits of tax research are at the hands of an independent office. What kind of work is it, Mr. President, when such an enormously important bill, based on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, that homework is not accomplished and that the benefits of partnership are measured? It's a good thing, Mr. President, that the fundamental work isn't done. There's also a bit of a routine here, like a cot. Councilmen have arrived in their speeches, some form of motivation for political vision rather than on the need, i.e. to weaken surveillance institutions and lay down institutions, unite them with others, enter other institutions, in order to actually check the excel document, as in the Management Board of Organize centres, without sufficient basic research and analysis work. It's not a good government, and it's not good politics, and it's reprehensible and critical. The bill is unclear, and key questions about who should investigate serious tax offenses are not answered in the bill. It is uncomfortable, Mr. President, when offered a similar important bill, that they have questions about the purpose of disappearing from a local program of personal investigation by the tax investigator and concealing it from the local district attorney, or whether the investigation is intended to continue for the tax investigator or what. Disagreement on such a serious matter is simply not acceptable. This is also sadly so that by the change in the tax investigator's application of government fines to the head taxpayer, it is an assessment by the manager that much fewer cases are going to be prosecuted. Thus, the severity of offenses and mild penalty of violations against taxes is a significant factor. Is that in harmony with the inventions that have occurred in the Icelandic community over the past few years? Is that consistent with what we found in the Panamas? Is this in harmony with a global awareness that it has to be eliminated from taxes, tax collections? No, I wouldn't count it, and the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee doesn't think so either. This is a fundamental translation of the possibilities of those who have to investigate tax charges that have been prepared explains the possibility of doing so by law. It is not just some feeling that this is not going the right way but that reports have been published and that the charges are being brought to the tax investigator. These include the 2006 Federal Reexamination of the Commissioner of the State of the Police Department when the prosecution of Economic Crimes was exposed to it. Also, project management of change and improvement in the tax system from 2016, which reached a similar conclusion to a previous report about ten years, to prevent double injury and to contribute to a shorter treatment period, is essential to create better congregating and heavy in the study of serious tax fractures. I wholeheartedly agree with the two senators - Oddný Harðardóttir and Smári Mccarthyr - that these views really apply today. There is also a time when a tax investigator has knowledge and experience to investigate such a criminal case. She's there. International connections, international cooperation, experience and knowledge. It is also worth reminding us that it takes expertise and expertise to investigate and condemn in tax laws. It is more efficient that one and the same party treat each other. It is customary to form in countries such as Germany. Nor is it necessary, Mr. President, to remind you of how tax laws relate to other crimes, the money-thrusty to photograph. This is known and is reported in a report by the financial action group and the official official's risk assessment. So the severity of these offenses is great and is also associated with other crimes. It is also interesting that in the Supreme Workgroup report. Financial and economic ministers, a report requested by the Minister to be made in the wake of the invented Panama Documents, returned in September 2016 but not published until the end of the election was 2017, are identifying the mutation that became the flow of funds from Iceland to national and low tax areas in the first decade of this century. The report says, with the permission of the president: ▪ From ancient times, some foreigners who have been in a position to do so may find that they are seeking ways to export money either in order to avoid taxes, to hide their wealth, or to hide their worth. The report stated that since 1999, a large number of African companions owned by the Icelanders were 30 times old, Mr. President, and until collapse. Sadly, though, little or nothing has been done to restore the tens of billions of people that were shot back in this way or, in reality, to make this happen so conclusively that it can happen again. How sad, then, to see this bill, which would have been an excellent opportunity to respond to the Court of Human Rights' judgment, to use the journey to ensure protection against tax subsidies, and to strengthen the surveillance agencies that have performance, experience, and knowledge to continue in one place of research in this important and important profession of tax efforts. We'll be able to live after the events of the past few years to give a clearer message than what is found in this bill that there's no tax collection in Iceland and we're not gonna make the knots here that Iceland will be waiting for another vote on international scale like the Panama Documents of its time, Tortola of the North Atlantic, we want to be that? No, except for all the damage to the Icelandic national economy, to lose all this money from a country that could be more useful in building our community, building the infrastructure, the welfare system, the health system, the education system, etc. Instead of allowing this bill to go through as if it were nothing, and continuing to reduce research and surveillance, let us take the lead in strengthening and strengthening the tools and tools we already have to pay for tax collections and taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u36	V.E.G. President. After listening to this talk, I have serious problems with myself. It is in this situation that pride can flare up in normal people. The talk was filled with ignorance, a mixture of different things is being made, but let it lie in one place or another. I hope my speech misheard me when it happened. A senator said - or some misunderstanding - could be with me or with me. A senator, of the important expertise of this class - that of the same party, the charge and conviction. I can't believe it wasn't fair. But if not, I'd like to know more about it. If we have arrived there, we are in perfect condition. Besides, it's amazing to have to listen to the fact that different things are involved, as if the surveillance is being weakened. There are differences in opinion as to where an institution should care for the prosecution and how tax research should be conducted, but no one can say with any conviction or reason that this arrangement weakens tax research. That's never been true. This is produced by experts, only to improve the efficiency and efficiency of tax research.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u37	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son can save himself a word about presumptuousness. He can certainly flare up, but there was no arrogance in my case here. For his inquiry about investigation and charges--yes, if I have said anything different, I mean, of course, research and charges, but not conviction. I think I know the difference. But we what? A senator simply disagrees. We do not agree that the bill we address here is designed to strengthen tax research. It so happens that the tax investigator agrees with me and the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, and it can be read in the reviews of the case, so that the data are sufficient. As I quoted earlier and can also be found in a committee list, there are some strong evidence to support that view, and that includes. The Director of State Review of 2006, and project management of changes and improvement in the tax system from 2016, will reach the same conclusion as the State Reexamination Commission, which suggests that the investigation will only be done in the treatment of the tax investigator who will get the prosecution, to make this clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u38	V.E.G. President. Pride - I wasn't pointing it to what. A senator is on my own, dealing with his own pride. That would be the problem after this speech. Of course, it is all right to have some other opinion about how to do tax research in the country. I don't care about that. You can have any opinion about it. I'm just saying there's no evidence to say that this is a weakness of tax research. This bill is not instigated by the Independence Party as it is being suggested or instigated by those who want to promote tax fraud from justice. This is derived from an expert staff, including The taxpayer, the tax research programme, how it becomes more targeted and efficient. In this regard, it is always being suggested that this is something to weaken tax research. No one has claimed it except for the members of Porta and the members of the United States Congress, not any man. Of course, the office of the current tax investigator is shut down, but tax research is not missing from the administration. It's just within the IRS, which is very normal. It's just gotten bigger, bigger unity, more knowledge, just like members of the UN and the Federal Bank. There is no purpose other than to strengthen these studies, to strengthen tax control, to strengthen the proper use of the flesh, and to bring charges and judgments to justice. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u39	Mr. President. I'm sorry, I can't help you. paritaprevir The armourer of the son of Níelsson, in taking hold of his own pride, as he was speaking of earlier, that I may not answer him. A member of the body in a material way can handle him. [[Up front.]] But it is so interesting that the question is made. A senator, that he is fully convinced that this is a fund of research and control over tax fractions and tax evasion even more when reviews of this bill speak differently and mention other things. In case of a moment. Brynjar Níelsson is so concerned with strengthening research and monitoring, why is he not more concerned with strengthening the office of an tax investigator rather than moving it into a ward of some sort to another office? Rather, should we not unite in putting even more money into tax research, more human beings, and more human resources into returning the funds that have been submitted and preventing them from being shot back? I think that's what we could do. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son unites, if it's our common vision and path. I'm excited that we'll get together on something, me and him. A senator, but there may be one more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u40	V.E.G. President. I must declare a special disappointment in the United States case and Pirata in this matter. I feel that it is characterized by the most incredible ethic to just to dust people's eyes and to assume that these are the government groups that weaken the IRS and turn men away from justice, another. What is being done here, and was done at the beginning, is reacting to what had been a long time before, and had been criticized, that in the present arrangement this double punishment was. There would be indiscriminate research, incorruption, and no one would know what the other was doing. Therefore, according to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, it was decided to adapt and correct this system. Therefore, funding the surveillance and research with the tax authorities, which, of course, are major - most of which have come from and are finished there - were being strengthened by an agency to monitor and test the tests needed to take care of them. Another case considered a major offense is criminal treatment, and this is done by the prosecution. It's not done within the individual institutions, either the Skattti, the Secret Service, the United States Association, or the National Guard or whatever we call it. There are other experts who take care of it. Of course, it is based on the data of these institutions, such as the Tax and the tax investigator, which are collected as part of research data. In the violations of penalties, when the tax law is a crime, there are large offenses, and there are probably other offenses, but there are more than a violation of tax laws. There are violations of money thefts, violations of other laws, which, of course, are not available to an tax investigator. That is why people are being caught up in the eyes only by suggesting that a tax investigator get power in the hands of a bigger and more tax-laws. It is so absurd to intend to go that way because judicial proceedings are not at the disposal of individual employees in the institutions of the state. That's a lot of expertise. That's why watching and reading this motion of the Convergence and the Pirata are very painful and painful, since it is so dramatic. [[What, what, what.]] [["Yes... dramatic."]] To argue that this is a weakness in the way the Thomson is being observed, it is also completely preposterous. Of course, the Agency is being strengthened by uniting the tax and the tax research as used to, it was only a research unit by 1997, or whenever it was converted to a special institution. Of course, having small institutions all over town caring for the same roles that others can take in instead of uniting them is to do all of this inaccessible, inaccessible, and inferior. We're supposed to use tax research and IRS within the same agency. That's all it is to strengthen it. It strengthens this institution to ensure that the application is correct and that everyone pays the right taxes. That's what this is about. It's not about anything else. There are, of course, such cases that people are in the first position, in real violations, and in violations that many need, many other offenses. They will not be paid for by the Tatteur or the tax investigator on charges. It's off and on. In my mind, this bill is one of the best bill that's been observed for a long time where it can be said that it's a reimbursement, a significant requisite, in which we can assume that a court of justice will be fair to those who are accused. She'll be normal, she'll be more efficient, and she'll be more efficient. That's the law we should put and, preferably more often, instead of being here to dust people's eyes and try to claim something else without any real moisture. It's a rhythm known at the council, and it's not a credit to anyone, and it's no use to anyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u41	Mr. President. I explain to you members of the Committee on Environment and Transport, which is about a drinking camp. The bill is making changes in the law No. 52/1989, which includes a new target protocol in line with the so-called cycle economy, changes in expenses and fees, violation of the authorization of Ministers for reduction of expenses, etc. It is being cleaned up in our environment that we know so well when we bring in a drinking camp and collect our fees. The committee received ten visitors, and seven reviews were received. The aforementioned opinion begins with a specific declaration that I shall have to read, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Agency welcomes the fine results obtained here in its land on a disposable drinking package. The Commission relies on the responsibility of a drinking product to be responsible for the use of environmentally-friendly and renewable packaging. Paper, plastic, and aluminium facilities have been extensively submitted to recycling in this country. The result is noteworthy and in the spirit of the circuit economy. Otherwise, the Committee's opinion is first focused on a composite package outside the return system. Commenting on the bill, it was noted that in the community it was an incentive to use an environmental drinking container, but those who carry a return fee, as the value of the product may be lower. These are mostly plastic and aluminium packs together or of paper and plastic. To answer, the Committee feels strongly that the manufacture and import must be taken into account and that the packaging of such mixed materials should be used into the economy and that these materials should be taken into account. The committee noted that recently a bill was put forth about the so - called cycle economy, which included the same. you will discuss handling wastes and laws on recycling and return costs and other items. It suggests that cardboard and paper packages, plastics, glass, metals, etc. will be placed on paper and paper packages. and a detailed discussion of the so - called manufacturer responsibility. It is very exciting to say that the Committee celebrates this and encourages the Environmental and Resource Ministry to continue working, such as recycling the mixed drinking package, and to see if local footwear can be suitable and whether or not, and to what extent, multi-use dressings can be considered. Furthermore, recycling of all glass waste is being discussed. Then, with Mr President's permission, I'm going to read on here: E-T-O-N-Y-Y-Y-Y- 1st. The bill is presented as an increase in administrative support. This increase is due to the planned start of glass recycling in 2021. It will be more expensive than crushing glass in a filling or as it has been. A review of the bill showed that this is merely a process of recycling on a glass container of drinking products in a delivery system. On the other hand, recycling of another container would still be financed and recycled, which would be the responsibility of a community. This would not include the same requirements for recycling of a glass camp. The committee rejoices that recycling on a glass container of drinking products is being started, but they also say that there is a reason to consider how this can be done first so that all glass waste can be recycled. This means that there will be a payment for such a glass product. In this article, we will consider the interest paid to the shareholders of Recycling. It has been criticized that recycling is being made profitless. It is then bound to the c- team 2. gr. The bill that moderate interest in shareholders can be returned to the stocks they have put in the company. The committee points out that according to Article 1. Section 4. The decision of the Member States shall be made on the basis of the Commission's ability to cover the costs of the operation and to provide moderate money to the stockholders. This suggests that by changing the law, there is a modest amount of money to be paid between articles and make it clear that it is there. Recycling is a private partner with over one third of government involvement. Significantly, the work gives some profits to earn for investments and to earn money in case of loss of business. It's happened, there's been a period like this. And even now, recycling of glass needs to be invested in a considerable amount of equipment. So here's what Mr. President says, by permission, all of them last in this section: In addition, part of the profits that are set aside for shareholders are natural so that they can make any amount of money from their investment. In the treatment of the case, it was suggested that it is reasonable, as it were, that reimbursers will be put on a drinking package that carries due fees and repays to consumers. It was difficult for the committee to agree with that proposal without the careful review. There are a number of problems with getting a large number of sellers to return a single-use drinking package to Recycling with the related costs and volumes. In addition, the hardware that reads barcode labels and tightens the package together would be essential for sale to receive and pay the return fee. You will need to figure out who will pay for your installation and use of such hardware. The conclusion was that there would be an assessment of the cost of buying and renting such equipment and his business before further discussions or stages would be taken. There are two adjustments made in the Commission opinion and I'm going to have a president read them directly, that's a bit of a complication that they're trying to sort out. F- team one. The bill suggests that those who sell passengers and crews of international goods from a tax - free trade as they leave the country should be placed and paid according to 1 mg. as if it were sold within the country. It was noted that drinking supplies are provided in a single-use container in equal amounts, not in the refrigerator, but only to a very small extent and are not offered to pour them into glasses. So there were exceptions that such packages would come to Recycling but would not leave the country. For this reason, it would be unnatural to add recycling bills to a packaging that takes consumers abroad and that the price should be limited to sale at restaurants where drinking at the site is offered. This was the compromise that the committee agreed on and feels the need to find an intermediate means to reduce the amount of drinking stores that go to recycling from the desert without a return fee and, as far as possible, to prevent reimbursement of a drinking product that may be expected to leave the country. It is not easy to understand, so, of course, there is a course that is based on a very rough plan of numbers involved. Finally, by the permission of the President, the proposal stands: Therefore, the commission suggests that a drinking container for light and strong wine sold in the airport exits will be reserved for the price. Whether a person is at a restaurant or at a vacation store and buying a light or a strong wine is not a bill on that package, but anything else that is bought at the airport station, water, soda, or beer is due. The second adjustment proposal states: F-T-T-T-E-T. The bill is suggested that currency also applies to the emissary and international organisations that import goods into the currency package. After receiving a tip for the treatment of the matter, the Commission feels it is proper to remove this point from the bill. The evidence is that this is thought to be a problem with 23rd degree. legal on Iceland's involvement in an international political agreement, No. 16/1971 called Vienna Convention. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that the embassy's office, and the chairman, be free from all taxes and fees to the state, to the country members, and to other districts of the embassies of the province. In addition, there was information on a potential for customs authorities to enforce such regulations in which immunity applies to the current deliveries. It is not allowed to go and count the bottles or what they may be. It is simply suggested that this article fall from the bill. I'm not going to read the modifications here. They turn to whether people are buying light wine or beer, soda, and water. In other words, there is a difference between a return fee, a return fee is not set on light wine and strong wine, but the rest. Again, this article, with the exception of legislatures and international agencies paying their fees. Hv. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason will sign in advance that they intend to make an account of in speaking. Other than that, the group who sign these words are thought to be: Bergþór Ólafsson, president of the Committee, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who stands here, Gudingon Brjánsson Brunsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Kolin Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Árnason Savarsdótir, and Vilmállállnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct child protection law change. The bill is a factor in making big changes in the interests of children. These extensive changes are the product of work, which is based on a wide range of cooperations and participations. The program was launched with a conference in the spring of 2018. In time, five ministers, as well as the Union's member, signed a declaration in order to break down walls between systems, improve child - care services, and create a paternal society. As a result, the Board of Directors on Children's Management Board was appointed. In the operating group, representatives from all the stewards who signed a controversial declaration of will have been assigned. At the same time, a transnational Senate committee on the subject of children was assigned to representatives of all members of the General Assembly. The Parliamentary Committee has actively participated in the project across classes and can be said to have led to this work. At the same time, in the spring of 2018, I appointed a team to shape a vision and direction in child care until 2030. The staff won analysis of child protection status and returned to its destination in October 2018. The decision to revise child - protection legislation was set in the stage, with the intention of establishing a new child protection law. Then, in February 2019, the Department of Social Affairs sent a letter to over 600 recipients throughout the country, where local work was brought to attention and encouraged those in attendance to submit indications and to offer their knowledge, including groups of open meetings. One of these categories was particularly about child - protection laws. After the results of the two groups, they were reassigned to a conference in cooperation with the Young People's National Association. A conference was held in October 2019 under the heading ◯Preparations for children's benefit. At that conference, the key results of this discussion were presented, including plans for a full reexamination of child protection. Work on the full reexamination began at the Department of Social Affairs at the beginning of 2020. The review has been performed in close collaboration with a group of experts and members of the Senate Committee on Children's Environment. At the same time, extensive consultations have been made with various groups on the general review of child protection. Here, in particular, I would like to mention consultations with children appointed by children. There has also been extensive consultation with rural areas throughout the country in connection with the implementation of these changes. The work at the full reexamination of the child protection law was found to be so extensive that by the end of 2020, it was decided upon in consultation with a Synod on the subject of children to switch the review of the child protection law into two phases. The bill includes the first part of the overall child protection analysis. Work on the latter part of it is scheduled to end later this year. A respectable president. I've agreed that criticism of the order of child protection committees and child - care districts has been observed. Criticism has pointed out that political emphasis should not determine who will be selected for decision - making on child protection. It has then been criticized that little child - welfare problems do not have the possibility of providing child protection services that require much expertise and close contact between small districts can have negative effects on the development of child protection. So the bill suggests that child - welfare committees will be brought down and child - welfare programs will be enlarged. The NTSB is replaced by the Children's Protective Service and Special District Services of Children's Protection, who become professionals, not political representatives. It should be noted that these ideas were developed by a group of members appointed in 2020, including some of whom have been appointed as members of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses. Committeeed representatives of the European Union and the Directorates' Association for Health Services. National Child Welfare Service is responsible for the implementation of child welfare services on the field of rural society. This includes some. The management of Child Protective Services and all decision-making agencies linked to child protection and is not particularly hidden from district councils. According to the bill, the district council will determine certain burdensome measures in child protection. The district council is a member of a local community and is appointed to be a lawyer, social worker, and psychiatrist with experience in child care. District Command is scheduled for five years, and it does not fit into the ideal period of the government. The bill also suggests that children's minimum size will be 4-fold, or from 1,500 inhabitants, to 6,000 inhabitants. This is in line with the results of the task force, which believed that 6,000 citizens of the Child Protective System had a general basis for maintaining a professional child protection work based on available data on the average number of employees and children's protection. However, the bill suggests that rural communities that do not work on child welfare services with neighboring communities can receive a reserve of minimum population size if they can demonstrate adequate knowledge of child protection. A respectable president. For what? The welfare committee is now treating three prime radios, which, in my opinion, include some of the largest system changes that have been involved in children's affairs. It contains the highest bill for a new overall album on the integration of services for the benefit of children. The bill I recommend here for the change in child protection laws is provided with a series of guidelines that connect child welfare to integrated services in the interests of successful children. Their goal is to explain the status of child protection services at integrating and to promote the overall integration services provided on the basis of child protection and other laws. The bill's proposal means that if there is a parent's request and after child's attempts to integrate services across a service system, children's welfare services from the beginning can participate in teamwork and planning. It is then recommended that different child protection services be integrated according to the level of the case. During the survey, it is expected that child - welfare services will be involved in the integration of child - care services. If there is reason to resort to deliberation on the basis of child protection laws, the child - welfare services take control of matters and leads teamwork with those who provide their child's services. In cases where there is no request for integrating services, the bill assumes that child protection services provide effective guidance on integrating services, and so seek cooperation with parents in the support of their child's services. If child protection services with the access of the Children's Environment Council feel the need for integrated measures, it is suggested in the bill that specific authority be given to determine that integration will be established. It is then assumed that the child's service is integrated regardless of parental position if the child's care or custody is received by the child's child's child's child's security services. A respectable president. As I talked about, the bill is... based on viewpoints observed in consultation with children. The bill suggests that children's protection laws will be changed in a way that will give careful attention to the participation of children in the treatment of child protection. Among other things, it is suggested that the right of children be specifically told to obtain information on the subject in a child - bearing manner. Then the changes are designed to strengthen the care of children in matters that concern them. Children's protection laws already include those of 15 years of age and older who are under child protection when it comes to saving a household. The bill suggests that support measures can be taken without saving with the approval of 15 - year - olds. A respectable president. In agreement with a full reexamination of child protection law, there have been indications of failure on current child protection laws. Therefore, there are some changes in the bill that have the goal of responding to these indications. Among the changes are the reinforcement of resources for unborn babies. It is, in fact, there. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is suggested that the Children's Health Department of Child Services be able to determine the preservation of children for up to four months, but under the current child protection laws, members of the Child Welfare Association have the authority to determine such provisions for up to two months. The bill also contains regulations to support the plans for a joint database and digital solutions in child protection. The objective of these digital solutions is improving the registry, facilitates data collection in child protection analysis and development and ensures a better integration in child protection services so that there will be no interruption or delays in the treatment of children and families moving between child care districts. These are proposed to include changes in the simple procedure of certain measures, including Children's Protective Service is advised to address matters directly due to the expulsion of a household and the restraining order of police instead of a rule in a current child protection law that allows a child - welfare committee to impose such claims themselves before the court. The bill also suggests changes in the implementation of legal charges and the changes to the legal requirements for child protection, child protection and family and welfare. A respectable president. As noted earlier, this bill is linked to large system changes in the interests of successful children. All the bills are expected to take effect at the same time, at the beginning of the year 2022. It is then suggested that the part of the transition towards the decomposition of child protection committees take effect after the next spring's rural elections. I have strong faith that these changes will benefit children and children in Iceland. A respectable president. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u43	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in the financial law of political organizations and candidates and their information rights through subsequent changes. Besides me, the transmissions of the bill are still cool. Councilmen Bjarni son of Benediktsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Mnfjön Gunnarsson Hrafn of Gurnar, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and Sæland Góland, representatives and presidents of all classes of the General Assembly. The bottom line of the matter is that on April 4, 2018, I appointed a representative of all the political parties at the General Assembly, together with representatives of the Ministry and Justice Department, in order to establish a set of regulations for the entire political community, creating a comprehensive legal arrangement for their activities, such as in the establishment and registration, a violation of political organizations, a financial settlement with the wear off. At the same time, the goal was to further promote democracies and transparency in political organizations, securing the independent and democratic activities of such organizations, and the unopposed public access to their active activity. At that time, the commission was assigned to investigate the position of political organizations in terms of the new laws on personal protection. The commission marked a continuation of work that began with a order called on a review of these same laws that I ordered on February 8, 2018. The work of that committee ended with the contract of the bill of law No. 139/2018, the change in financial agreements and candidates, and their Enlightenment, No. 162/2006, with subsequent changes. This bill suggests that certain changes in the law will be made in order to shape the entire legal structure of the political organization on the land, with the aim of further transparency into political struggles and to strengthen the basis for financing of political parties. Thus, the bill further supports the primary objective of existing laws. Newer in the bill is best: Since the day when the election has formally been announced for elections to the Allied Commission or government president of Iceland, as well as for the published national regulations, advertisements and other costs intended to influence the outcome of elections should be marked by an advertiser or a responsibilities officer. That's an additional 12. The current law, which requires that political organizations, their elected representatives, and candidates as well as personal candidates be forbidden to finance, publish, or share in the publication of material or advertising in connection with a political struggle unless it is published that the material is published by or by their involvement. Thus, the proposal takes further steps to counteract anonymous election years that have been held in the elections of the past few years, especially in community media. In order not to go beyond an urgent need, the bill suggests that the directive applies solely to the release of materials, which are lost to influence the completion of elections. It is proper that, according to the expression, the law does not apply to the way individuals share under their names, e.g. on a personal social network network, material or advertising linked to a campaign resulting from anonymous sources. Thus, the obligation to give up who has a pay factor applies only to those responsible for the manufacture and release of the material. The provision is not intended to limit a democratic debate in the ensuing election end, but an unorthodox public debate in which voters are able to take an informed stand on the candidates and to promote the fundamental part of democracy. If so, it is not intended to limit right individuals to promote false or misleading facts. This new duty, however, contributes to a state of transpiration over the origin of costing advertisements and the interests that may be behind them. The limitations of the arrangement need not go beyond the limits required and are permitted according to the freedom of expression by 73rd. The constitution. Then it is important that the ban almost exclusively for a specific period of time, but it is assumed that the value since the date when the election date has been formally announced due to a campaign. Then, as the election draws closer, it is seen that it is often a hard fight. During these last weeks and months before the election, the most important debate is being made up of voters. Hence, it is reasonable to take a clear view of the possibility of intervening into the shelter of anonymity during this marked period of time. The bill assumes that political organizations, whose objective is to submit in the elections to the Council or to the Continents, will be registered as members of a special political system made up of the government tax authorities. This is only a warrant, not an obstacle to the democratic involvement of political parties in elections. The right political organization to offer in democratic elections will not be limited by the bill and will then be seen as their goal to create a platform for exchange on important social issues and, rather, to reflect the views of their members on such issues, either in public discussion or through an elected political representative. Thus, political organizations will continue to be able to offer in elections without having applied or enrolled in a political organization. In the bill it is assumed that the terms of an organization qualifying are that the purpose of the organization is to offer in elections to the World Parliament or to the countryside, that their approval is in accordance with the regulations of the bill, and that other documents follow. While there is no mandatory registration, there are certain right effects involved. The bill thus assumes that registration will be a requirement for financial contributions from the local government as well as the conditions already found in the law. The purpose of allowing the registration and making it a requirement for the intervention of public funds is primarily to strengthen the foundation of the control and transparency of political organizations and to seek to increase the confidence of the citizens in their activities. Thus, the regulations of the bill help to increase the transparency of political organizations that accept public contributions, where there will be certain to have set minimum information on the activities of the political organisation, such as those involved in the organisation and their internal organization. The bill assumes that a political organisation should be published publicly on the Iceland Management Board's web, along with data. Mr. President. The bill provides detailed guidance on the authority of political organizations to keep partnerships and the authority to treat the personal information contained in it. In addition, the sources of political organizations to work with personal information about the common people, to use business files in their activities, and to work with personal information about voters and the general public. Sources of political organizations in these areas have not been clear enough until now, especially after approval of new personal protection laws and alter the environment of the political parties in this new legal environment. In this connection it is suggested that political organizations are specifically forbidden to use personality formats to direct individuals' content and advertisements in connection with political struggles, which involve the need to avoid using their voting rights. The bill also expects the addition of new laws to elections to the Council, No. 24/2000, county election law, No. 5/1998, and the U.S. President's Act on Pronunciation, No. 36/1945, access to political organizations and presidents of the Presidency to their polls. It is assumed that Iceland's National Registry provides electronic access to a total or, in part, to the approval of an election by the political and executives at the Presidency. This is in line with years of implementation, in which the National Constitution of Iceland has provided markets for political organizations. In view of this, the Persian Protection Board of March 13, 2014, No. On the other hand, 2013/8228 points out that the law has a lack of authority to hand over agencies to the political institutions. It should be handled and further checked for submissions to political organizations and candidates, and treatment should be prescribed according to years of implementation. The context then suggests that the terms of the election will be adopted into the law by the list book of political parties. The agreement with the bill was thus made by the Committee on the Treaty on the Communication Act, requested comments from the Ministry of Justice, Federal Protection, the Media Control Committee, the National Security Council on Information and Covid-19, the General Group for Re-Electment, State Advisor, the National Publications Index of Iceland and other Member States. The comments of these parties, as well as the above, were taken into account in a paper with the bill, but the main weight of the bill was carried by the executive director of the political parties who have been taking over it. Finally, I'd like to mention that they were listed in a report, that was Björg Eva Erlendsdóttir, Þórður Þórarinsson, Helgi. Haukur Hauksson, the daughter of Karen Kjartansdóttir, the daughter of Fjóla Bjög Björnsdóttir, the Erla of Hlynsdóttir, Birna Þórarinsdóttir, and Magnús Þór Hafsteinsson. Along with these executives, Hjön Helgason was a lawyer designated by the Ministry of Justice, and Ágúst Geir Ágústsson, an office director of the Ministry of Justice. At the time of the committee, changes were made in her order that Jenný Guðrún Jónsdóttir took the seat of Birna Þórarinsdóttir and Elsa Kristjánsdóttir replaced Erla Hlynsdóttir's daughter. Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion referred to the management and monitoring committee and 2.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prehistoric prime minister. In my opinion, this is a very important matter, but at the same time, I want to use this opportunity to thank the executives of the classes who have been involved and have been working on this for some time. It is clear that there is a significant difference, yet it is happy that a transnational agreement was made to introduce the matter into the council. So I'd like to agree with the words made by the Prime Minister here in the pool earlier. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how he sees the progress of the situation, what the time line is. We are slowly entering the campaign, and I ask the prime minister to see that the environment will then be altered in some way and if we should not rejoice that the emphasis given in the bill will be realized for these elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u45	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator to thank the executive of the classes for a good job. Indeed, it is true, as it were. One senator noted that it is not as if there were no differences between the classes, but the executives certainly made efforts to resolve the disagreements that arose. Yes, I think it's very important that this case be fulfilled, both before elections in the fall, to form in terms of anonymous propaganda, in which we are sharpening further on the terms we agreed before this term. I also believe that it is important that laws on forming the interaction of these laws and laws on personal protection be made clear as soon as possible. It will, of course, come up because political parties are not commercial companies but groups of partners who need to be able to communicate with their partners, but at the same time, it is important that they be careful about how they communicate, that those rules are clear. So I think it's important that the bill succeeds in explaining the lines around political parties to their partners, which, of course, are the basis for all the subversive activities. In view of the great work that took place in preparing this case, I hope so. The board of directors and patrols put this case first and we can end it sooner than later and hopefully only this May month.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for these answers, and she agrees with her that it is important that the committee take priority in this matter. Although political emphasis is from being small to being anyone, and not necessarily in this matter alone but in general in this room, it is characteristic of this matter that we all want to do our part in order to make the democracy work. We see in the campaign of last year that it is possible to form a field of anonymous propaganda, which seems to me to be accepting, which I celebrate. I think one of my first inquiries to the highest level. As for anonymous propaganda, I want to say that I am happy to be trying to touch it without the freedom of expression. I think it's a good way to go, but I'm giving it to you. The committee's going to go through it. I want to celebrate. In my opinion, democracy is being strengthened by these changes and this proposal, so we all have to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u47	Mr. President. I think you're absolutely right. A senator and I think I remember the inquiry. Hv. A senator has been tireless in his assignment to establish these issues, and I think that there is also full reason, not only for the examples we have of our small community, but also for the examples abroad, of how personal information is used to promote a particular propaganda against certain groups, often not under the name of one or none. It's a big deal, of course, that I hope is a thank-you for the democracy. We have tried to move gently to the earth so that we are at the same time setting clear limits without paving people's freedom of expression. I really hope this will benefit from an Icelandic political talk. I can't believe it otherwise, when all classes join together in this matter, but it becomes an excellent sense when eight groups fall apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u48	A respectable president. I hereby gladly recommend our proposal for requisition to be agreed on by the European Council of Ministers on the cooperation of currency and mutual punitive control. It's just that everyone knows that this is related and consistent with both this and then what I'm going to tell them to decide for the continuation of discussions about the European Union, but to a certain extent, a new approach. This is done in the light of circumstances, and especially because of their debt, the importance of our being here with a constant currency, a constant success that contributes to our spending more chances of maintaining growth and inflation - all of this is a cloud now. This will help us to get out of the circumstances that the debt fund offers faster. It must be said, as is the fact that the government budget for the next three years shows that there is great optimism that growth will remain unchanged, inflation becomes low, and keep going. There is evidence that we need to take other steps, and this is our suggestion. Our proposal does not come on the way of the government, which seems to be running for a living, a currency stand, as we had experienced in the past, without the new Lawgiver's arrival. In my opinion, it is most risky to suggest that there will be a significant currency crisis here. It will severely impair our competitiveness of Iceland, so I'm not talking about another subject recently on the program here at the council on pension bonds. It is worth considering that one of the government's donations to address the economic situation is a proposal that somehow involves the failure of the men to a pensioner, i.e. The cost of a pension is being replaced every month to make it happen every year. This means that to a pensioner's decrease of about 70,000,880,000 a year will no doubt be easier to engage in the pension fund in some way, in one way or another, in financing the funds of the state and in the way of paying off it. It's a matter of opinion, I think, and we need to have all the alarm alarms upstairs. However, in this matter we are simply suggesting that the Allied Council agree to hide the government on the basis of Iceland's Member States's Member States to the European Economic Areas requesting a discussion with the Council of Ministers for cooperation in currency and mutual gang care, in order to ensure stability in the currency market, strengthen Iceland's competitiveness and promote innovation. We know that through the last year and year of this massive leap that the innovation needs in order to become a full member of the international world that the obstacle there is finally the currency, i.e. not to have a constant currency. It doesn't matter who you talk to in the Neo-creation sector and the procrastinator, but we also see that large companies in Iceland, in industry, do not grow up in Icelandic dollars, but in euros or dollars. The bill for financing 2021 and a budget plan for the 2021/225 years assumes a significant increase in the budget of the state by means of a sliding business. Its aim is to face the economic breakdown caused by the pandemic of Covid-19. There is a broad agreement about making good economic status available in Iceland to take action to soften this crisis. At the same time, it is clear that when the pandemic is over, governments need to look for all ways to ensure a new balance in income and government expenses. There are ideas on how this goal will be achieved. Clearly, the scope of the government in order to achieve such a balance without harsh maintenance and income action depends on the economic development of the coming years. The more economic growth that will follow the end of the epidemic, the less burdensome the measures will be to regain the balance of government management, and the more likely we are to remain under our welfare system. A steady gang supports the economy, according to our opinion. The primary premise for growth in economic growth is production. Trends can be enhanced by measures such as investment in technology, education, infrastructure, motivation for innovation and responsible economy, which ensure economic stability. During the past decade, the government of the Icelandic government has been responsible. The debt status of the state's funds is good and has been achieved in building a historic large - scale currency reserve. We know it was even. Because of certain monopolies, the camp paid large sums of money to the state funds. However, there is a single intervention. Nevertheless, we still watch a dollar become a source of instability. Her gang has been much more swinging than the currency of most neighboring countries. In today's crisis, she has given much attention, despite a very large supply of currency and limitations in the currency exchanges of her pensions last summer, as we had experienced. The Icelandic economy is highly dependent on international trade, so such fluctuations in the economy are difficult and expensive. Compromise is very negative for the job and for the homes in the country. It causes uncertainty and unpredictable fluctuations in income and cost. It makes the whole project difficult, weakens the competitive position of export workers, leads to prices, and promotes inflation. Remember, Iceland has up to eight times higher inflation than e.g. Denmark We are, in fact, the only land in Europe where inflation has exceeded plans. The only land. The currency and its instability are then the dominant factors in a growing stage in Iceland that are higher than in neighboring countries. High interest rates increase the cost of business and construction and reduce the financial resources of companies and individuals. - It's a down-priority investment in companies and individuals. Thus, a steady currency is one of the key priorities of economic stability and the improved competitiveness of Iceland. In order to attract a foreign capital for innovation, for sceptres, in our basic working roads, the key is to obtain a stable currency that in the near future gives us a sense of urgency. Iceland's secret bank published Iceland's options for currency and gangs in 2012, which evaluated the options of Iceland's currency. It is, in fact, there. As an option, consider the filming of Euro, which aims to link the gangs of the crown with euro because of the scope of Iceland's business and the European countries. The report discussed two possibilities, one - sided recording and the other direct involvement of Iceland in the European Union's currency union, ERM II. The conclusion of the reports is that one - sided uptake follows significant defects that make it unwilling to do so. However, Iceland's involvement in EM II requires entry into the European Union. Transporters of this proposal still feel that the most promising option is to complete a European Union contract process, and I would like to stress that it is the most reasonable way. But we also know, and I'll find out when I move the other case afterwards, that it takes more time. It takes a lot more time, and we don't have much time to start a valuable creation and press on to produce, which needs to be very fast in the months ahead and miss. Therefore, in view of the economic pressures we now face, we do so with the urgent need to receive a constant currency. We'll do it, even if we do it. This is our way. Because of the importance of ensuring stability in currency, we propose the compromise we address here, that Iceland knows the possibility of a two- sided agreement with the European Union on cooperation in currency with the European Economic Convention. The media responds to this urgent need but remains open to the possibility that later the step will be taken to the full. Some documents have been written this way, including of Magnússon, professor of economics, and Már Stefán Stefánsson, professor of law and chief expert in Iceland in European rights. They have noted that nothing in the European Union laws forbids such cooperation. A model for such agreements could be applied to the fronts of ERM II, the European Network, the EMS and the European Space Association (ERM). That arrangement was adopted in the European Union in 1979 and completed when ERM II began its role. This system was designed to ensure stability on European Member States' currency, which is the exact objective of this proposal. In a recent article in the Morning newspaper, Stefánsson Barsson, a law professor and Már of ethics, Kristófersson that such a two - sided agreement with the European Union can be an example in Dana's currency system. The Danish crown's gang is held within a narrow space in gangs toward euro. The stability of the gang is guaranteed by the close cooperation of Europe's Secret Bank and the Clubs of the Huns Bank. In the planned development of Iceland and the European Union, the crown would only be allowed to swing in a very narrow distance towards Euro. A steady score would be spent together by Iceland's Secret Bank and the European Parliamentary Bank. Although the European Union's stability towards euro is a very large economic interest issue for Iceland, the economic interests of such a contract are not very high, it must be said at the moment. However, the European Union has taken many steps over the years to facilitate trade within Europe, despite the lack of economic scope and many examples. One of the most clear examples of this is the EEA Convention. The EEA Convention aims in particular to provide four freedoms and natural competition within the European Economic Area. The parallel evidence was fundamental to the ERM system at the beginning of the 1980s. The exact same logic could be used in treaties between the European Union and Iceland in currency, as it is evident that the constant success of the European Union towards Euro would make it easier to do business and increase the internal market of Iceland and other European countries. The European Union's statement from the European Union is likely to increase the EU's political interest in closer cooperation with other countries, which would shed a positive light on cooperation with the relationship. The credibility of Iceland, which we are dealing with, is very high and most likely at the expense of the European Union. Economic management in Iceland has been much better than many EU Member States in the past few years, and Iceland's currency supply is relatively large. It is most unlikely, therefore, that the cost would outweigh the benefits of increasing trade. This is exactly where the size of the currency supply is, how it's used. And because it is the big thing now, it is just an opportunity for us Icelanders to have a very progressive discussion with the European Union, political discussions, not government talks, but political talks. Iceland would no doubt have to submit to demands for responsible economic administration in the form of a government policy on government and government debt. However, it has already been done by the government's law on government government's affairs so that the additional cost of such conditions would be minimal. In view of the above, it is evident that the benefit of cooperation with the European Union in currency and mutual protection would be considerable. If this were to happen, it would be a loss to ensure the European Union's stability of the European Union and stimulate mutual exchange of the EU's internal market. According to the movers, it is accepted as one of the most important steps the government can take to promote growth in the postnatal period, one of the most important steps we can take. This is our way of trying to secure the instant stability of gang affairs that can help us keep our growth here low and that can lead to some relief from the inflation. But the way of the government is to announce possible currency capitals and other means, as we have noted, i.e. accessing borrowing here within the cost system, which is supported by restoration. When we supported the government's actions, we believed that this was the basis for our being within the financial system. But then the government changed the course and decided to take a great risk, a success risk, with foreign loans that are of great concern to the state funds and to the interests of the households, the companies, because me and the Icelanders have never experienced an era in Icelandic economic history that has been without the tremendous rhythms, with bad and difficult consequences for the homes and businesses of the country. This is our suggestion into the present situation, and I hope, of course, that it will be well received.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u49	Mr. President. I especially want to celebrate this discussion. I think we need much more talk about Europe in this room. The senator standing here is convinced of the Europeans and has been that for decades, so to speak. It is important to us that Icelanders take the full step of applying for full involvement in the European Union, and I think it should be our goal. I know why. The candidate of the proposal agrees with me in this regard, but he plays this interaction or compromise in this way. I'll pay the price for these ideas, because I think we're changing the line talk to see if we're going to go this way instead of a full share in the European Union, which must be our primary objective and must be our common struggle as a Europeanist. In this regard, I would like to go back a little. Then, in 2008, I was also a member of the Parliament, the government of the Independence Party and the United States. After that government was formed, a special committee, called the European Committee, was set up, and I was chairman of that committee with that then senator, Illugi Gunnarsson. The commission included representatives of all political parties, as well as members of the labour market. For fun, recall that the current prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was on the committee. There were 12 individuals in this committee, and we took a special look at the approach here. to discuss whether it would be possible to start cooperating with the European Union on the scene of crime. We examined the two - sided video of Euro, as well as the one - sided video of Euro. We went to Brussels, and it's most recently reported that the reaction there was Dr. I just want to review what happened in Brussels at the time, and I have no reason to believe that this has changed for the European Union. We who went to Brussels talked even. to the head of the economy, Almunia Joaquín at the time. We had repeated discussions with Olli Rehn, director of the enlargement business. We spoke to the Executive Director and the Ministry of International Communication, we went to the European World Bank, etc. We tried talking to heavyweight officials in this regard. Iceland's potential for recording euro on the basis of a two-sided contract based on European legislation was discussed in these terms. We took a special look at the currency agreements made with the European Union at Monaco and the Vatican and San Marino, and it is most recently reported that we received a clear message that it was not a model that the European Union would look upon when it came to Iceland. There was also a review of how fast, and this is interesting, Iceland could record EUR by EU Member States and see if the European Parliament could support Iceland during the application period in order to maintain a stable gang. The responses of the European Commission, such as the European Commission, were that Iceland might become a member of the European Union within a relatively short period of time but only six months after membership, and these are responses from the European Union, could become a member of the currency capitalism, ERM II, who attached the crown to euro with these 15% gaps. In fact, some countries have been involved in ERM II one to three months after being in the EU. This was shown in the case of a representative of the European Union. Therefore, Mr President, it was believed that Iceland could record the euro within three years of membership, as Iceland would have been two years in EM II and, of course, met the Maastricht conditions. In this field of conversation in Brussels and elsewhere, it was discussed at the Committee that a recording of euro on the basis of a two-sided contract would not really bring the Icelands into force to EMU but would be comparable to the one - sided version of Euro. We'd get one, for example. not sitting in the bank council, we would not be allowed to share in so - called mint profits and not access to the European Bank as a lender for disaster. It matters. Oli Rehn, director of enlargement, told us on the Committee that the single - side video of the euro was also not in the spirit of the good relationship between Iceland and the EU and the European Union would not take it well if Iceland tried to do so. No one would want Iceland to record the euro on the basis of any two-way contract. Almunia Almunia, executive director of the economy and finance, specifically stated that it would take only 30 minutes for the European Union's lawyer to find that the euro's record was for the European Union's member countries. When asked, the managers said that it would not change anything, although the whole EEA would unite to go this way, there is, of course, no such possibility as the situation in Norway. The European Commission's representatives were therefore extremely clear when they told the European Commission that the micropowers in Europe, Monaco, San Marino, and Vatican were not examples for the Icelanders, since they would have had countries that had the old currency of member countries before the euro was adopted. The European Union's representatives also believed that there were chief political reasons, and it is important that against the two - side European Convention in Iceland. The current currency agreement should not be an example, as mentioned earlier. The EU would have no benefit from such contracts where financial legislation in Iceland would already be in accordance with EU legislation on the basis of the EEA Treaty and, perhaps, the big thing, that Iceland could still become a member of the European Union. The European Union has repeatedly told the European Union that Iceland is indeed welcome to that group. I found this an interesting opportunity to recall the answers we had at the time regarding such a currency business. Of course, it is most tempting. One of the most important options for being involved in the European Union for Iceland is the euro, I'm sure I'll figure it out. The Icelandic dollars is a manual currency, and history shows that. Let us not draw a feather over it. Icelandic kooks are an Icelandic form of a job, and they cost a fortune for Icelandic homes, that is known to all who have observed Icelandic espionage. I don't want to tear this conversation apart. I don't want the discussion to start with: Yes, let's try this compromise route, pick up the euro, whether in a single-sided or two-sided field of some kind. Instead, let's take the debate I know the next Congress case is what it is. A candidate is about to resume contact with the European Union and aim to take full part in this. Mr. President. It is neither coincidence nor stupid that almost all nations of Europe believe they belong in the European Union. It is based only on cold interest values, and the benefits are indiscriminate to me. In short, so I'm tore up, it's been a long time since I've been conducting a European debate here, and Iceland's main benefits are to take part in the EU and the production of the euro increase stability. It's lower food prices. It's less than growing in the long term. It's less gang hazard, less gang swings. It's less inflation. There is an increase in foreign investments and thus an increase in competition. This is a more reasonable agricultural system for consumers and farmers. There is an increased impact on the rules that are currently valid for the EU. We work very hard in this room to stamp regulations from the European Union without having anything to say about how they are being done. Member States that the European Union would have less cost of business, improved social rights, no general insurance, etc. But then, Mr. President, we must not forget the big thing, that Iceland is a European people living in a community of other European countries. This is our cooperation nation for hundreds of years, and that is where we should look for our interests and interests. This is our family. It's all that recommends the involvement of Iceland into the European Union. It's economic stability, economic expansion, it's an impact on one's own community. But it is also part of this family of European nations. Mr. President. How sad it is that the big corporations in this country, whether in the fishing or in the rest of the country, are the only ones who can secure their interests by settling in euro or dollars. Meanwhile, Icelandic homes are let down a soup by a fluffy currency that calls for ploughs. In fact, there are ministers in this government who consider gangfalls to be a reasonable economy. We must never forget that gangfalls always happen at the expense of the public. By means of plagiarism, we are losing our value and respect for the currency of our value. [[The president calls.]] So this is a huge question, as Europeans, no matter where we are, we need to be resolved in the future and convince the nation of the benefits of Iceland to the European Union because they are unequivocal in my opinion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator is eager for the introduction and that the Conspiracy will enter this way into the discussion, for there is no reason. A senator, in effect, was the most determined person to speak for involvement in the European Union. This is correct, and we specifically state in the report with the proposal that it would be best to apply immediately for membership, thus ensuring direct uptake of euro into the European Union. However, in view of the fact that we are not further along with the European Union as painful as it is, I think we have to admit it and say: We need to take more discussions on the European issues. As you and I in here have to contribute to that, and out of it goes on. The next proposal, to become more informed about the subject, to introduce to the nation the pros and cons of continuing discussions with the European Union. That's the suggestion. However, I would like to say that circumstances - and I thank you for the 2008 review - are just quite different from what they were in 2008. I have no doubt that if anyone had said to the same group, wait, the British will be out of the European Union in ten years. Then everyone would have said, "No. " And it's a big difference to us that are in favor of continuing our discussion with the European Union. We have to find out that the European Union also needs to take something to stay at home. I think it will help us to be flexible and realize that there is a bigger picture to consider, a more political picture to consider now than 14 years ago. With all due respect for the committee that went out at the time, it was especially the case with high - ranking officials. I believe there will be a lot of success in these talks. [[The president calls.]] You don't work in Lotto unless you play along. We've got to try this, because it's faster than the way we've got to be good at it, and it's going to continue with business talks in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] So I say, the way we're going to deal with it is to try to do everything we can to get here a constant currency with respect for homes and businesses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u51	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator may agree more and less with this matter. Let's just spin some pies together to introduce here a deeper and better discussion of Europe and Iceland's involvement in the European Union. In part, we're going backwards. The reason for reviewing the history that I led the European Commission of the Government in 2008, along with Illugi Gunnarsson, is that 70% of the Icelandic industry lives behind the conclusion of our report of applying for involvement in the European Union. Under that conclusion, ASI, Iceland's Business Council, the Association of Tourism, Industrial Organization, Business and Service Organization, and other members of the employment community. At that time, heavyweight operators in Icelandic society and employment were ready to make up with the policy of applying for EU membership. I also ask the question: Where is the Icelandic job life when it comes to that big question? Where's the business? Where are the companies responsible for this unstable currency we have and bleeding for him? Why can't we hear more of them? To whom is the money primarily to serve? A commercial situation in which a dollar is swinging like a croissant, where there is no experience, where an Icelandic company needs to be experts at the scene of currency exchange. It's just not acceptable. This cannot be just a political project. Icelandic employment needs to be heard along with the labor movement, as those phenomena did nearly a decade ago. The question, in fact, won't be bigger than this. It's about the New World Translation. It's about the business opportunities and competitiveness of Icelandic companies. It's about Icelandic business and employment and homes as good as their homes and businesses in Europe. [[The president calls.]] That is why the question is so urgent, so much so important that we respond to it and seek involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] This is the big deal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u52	A respectable president. I'd like to take my mind off with a bang. Senator. I have asked myself, " Where did the Icelandic job life go for ten years when it was one of their most important interests and the Icelandic public with the labor movement in the placenta? ' Hv. A senator offers urgent questions. Of course, you feel that there are conflicting views in your job life. But we also feel that those who are loud and want to keep the dollar high, i.e. wants to change currency, get a constant currency, a little cut off in the workplace. I'd like to encourage the economy and the industry, all the companies, the wand companies, and the labor movement that calls even. ... theprecautionswill be removed. It happens with a constant currency. It happens by recording another currency. And that, of course, is where we are looking. This is an input to tear down the conversation a little bit from the chaos it has been in. The European and currency debates have been closed, and it is as if no one were afraid to talk about the exact issues. That's right. That's right. A senator said here earlier, one of the biggest interests of Icelandic and Icelandic enterprises, and especially of our young people. Icelandic youths are something different than e.g. British? 70% of British youths, 25 years of age and younger, refused that the British would abandon the European Union. That's a very clear message from young people. Young people see the world as open, not closed, as a large group of governments like to have it. It's just to be put here at the end, close and read. I don't like it. [[The president calls.]] We are trying to keep this discussion alive. We are setting up the nation's most important interests on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u53	Mr. President. Did you know that last year's currency was one of the most vulnerable, the most dross? We are among those with Kyrgyzstan, Mozambique, and Georgia. Remember, when a dollar gets sick, imported products become more expensive and inflation is increasing. Let us not forget that the value of the common people is stored in this currency that constantly falls in value. In fact, he is not permissible anywhere else in the world. Can you imagine? How is it that we have governments and political parties who order this government that wants to keep the public from benefiting from a stable and safe currency, below interest, and without insurance? At the same time, the government sees nothing wrong that big business and rich people make their case in euros and store their cash in foreign currency. Mr. President. The crown - and now I'm going to be a little dramatic - is really for the rich, not the common people. That's why I don't understand why weight is no more in this regard. People are interested in the sovereignty - I'm going to use my final words to do this - but Iceland's sovereignty is not at risk with its involvement in the European Union. Do people believe that France is not a sovereign state or Denmark? It is, of course, a sovereign state. With cooperation, we trust our sovereignty. Do people of North Korea think that they are the greatest sovereign power in the world? What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We need to ensure that our sovereignty is involved in the European Union where our main business interests, our moral interests, and our cultural interests are involved. That's what it's all about, and that's what we are. Senator agrees, Mr. President. That is why we need to consider this discussion. Therefore, it is to be given full force to convince the people that this is the right way. I reiterate that it is not by chance that our major cooperation nations with whom we share so much in common consider their interests to be much more valuable in the European Union than in other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u54	A respectable president. Our crown is the least independent currency in the world. A small currency, such as our dollar, is more sensitive to fluctuations than others. At times, to her praise, she is told how swinging she is, but they may not seem to be a factor to commend people, that they are highly swinging and fluctuating. Her ability to fluctuate is primarily that it can be cut down, and it usually falls at the expense of the public. This situation reduces awareness and encourages high growth. The fluctuations in which our little dollar frames are difficult realities and negative for the commercial life of the country and the homes of the whole country and the people. Therefore, I feel that the more difficult this discussion is, which is fundamental to life, and that we subtract to the table and into this conversation of young people, the young generation, which seems to be a matter of government policy, should continue with the reality of the Icelandic currency. A steady currency is the basis for stability in Iceland's economics and better competitiveness. Of course, Iceland's competitive attitude is a better one and should be a goal and a future mouse for all of us, but, of course, it has the most basic translation for the younger generations to come. The European Crown's situation has been particularly prominent in the crisis we face, its root cause of the pandemic season, and its contours. The crown, as we all see, has given much attention despite a very large amount of currency reserves and despite the limitations of the currency exchange of pensions. Despite these measures, she gives in to her defense. Because of the importance of ensuring stability in currency, we now recommend that Iceland examine the possibility of a two- sided agreement with the European Union for cooperation in currency, in connection with the EEA Convention. They would respond immediately to an urgent and urgent need, keeping open the possibility that later the step will be fully taken in terms of participation. In fact, I think it's also a conversation that young people, children, younger generations deserve to be planned, the conversation of membership, of Iceland in the national community, of the country's vision for young people. The two- sided agreement with the European Union now on cooperation in currency may be an example in the currency system we know at Dana, where the Danish crown gangs are held within a fixed frame, a narrow space towards the euro. Thus, the stability of the gang is ensured by the close cooperation of European Central Bank and Denmark's Secret Bank. In the planned Iceland and the European Union, the crown would be given sufficient space to swing within a very narrow distance towards the euro, and thus a joint effort would be spent by the Bank of Iceland and the European Council Bank. The result would be the sought - for stability that we so desperately need. Iceland would likely have to, or almost without a doubt, submit to certain demands for responsible management, regarding government regulations and government debts. As we already know by the government's laws on public finances, additional costs of these conditions should in itself be negligible. In this regard, I also feel that I have the right to mention the requirements of responsible economic management. Of course, that belief is a matter of general interest in itself. The responsible management that would be required in this regard is, of course, only a desirable goal, i.e. something that is not to be feared but that is to be sought. A respectable president. The European Union's benefits, the European Union's benefits, the benefits of cooperation with the European Union in terms of currency and mutual policy defenses, would be, I would like to say, huge. The benefits would be from ensuring the stability of the Icelandic crown, which we are eternal because stability is simply not part of our reality. This would ensure stability of the Icelandic crown to euro and stimulate mutual exchange on the European Union's internal market. The proposal suggests that her approval is one of the most important steps the government could take to promote growth following the tribulation the pandemic has led to. A respectable president. To me, the answer to the question of what the benefits would be simply that this is one of the largest biographies for the entire population in the country. The result would be lower interest rates and a lower cost for the homes of the country. Again, I would like to mention the reality of young people in this regard. As a result, it would be less expensive to own property in Iceland. We know the reality of the situation that Iceland is paying off its high price as a result of its currency. The result would be a more favorable job construction and export conditions, but we desperately need a job structure now, but also in the long run. The result would be the stronger situation in Iceland in the international market. The result would be more diversity in the workplace. There is also a significant point here that has been discussed and discussed in the position that it will become and must be a future mouse to protect the job by not wearing all the eggs in the same basket. The result of this course would be support for innovation. A respectable president. We are here setting up a set of basic questions, a matter that is very clear to me that is a matter of interest to the entire public in the country, and this matter needs to be discussed. It also has to be reasoned that in view of the interest they are facing, they are seeking all ways to avoid the conversation, because they also need to be reasoned with why they are not going this way. In fact, to me it is quite clear that the burden of evidence is on those who want to keep their plans. You see, the benefits are very clear to me, and the public deserves proper attention and attention to this subject. My argument goes one way, and I look forward to the discussion that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u55	A respectable president. We'll discuss a Parliamentary decision from a council group in which to adopt euro in cooperation with the European Union. I must admit that when news of this council resolution came up, I thought, " Well, it's gonna be fun. We can start discussing these issues with a sense of urgency. Some reverends have said that they should not speak. Of course, that's not so, a respectable president. This is all, and it is permitted to present Congress laws and bills, almost as much as they would like. But this is the first time since I went to the council that such a proposal is available, as I know. I have at least a few minutes. such discussions have not been encountered before. This may well be done in view of the time when the election is nearing its end. I think it's important that the voters know what the groups that are offering to the Council represent. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnuldóttir, who spoke before me, said that the burden of evidence was really to be with those who want to change. I have to admit, I think it's a little strange a approach. Rather, it should convince us of why we should change. So far, there has been a difference. Congress officials have failed to convince me of its value. I have to say, though, there are some things in the report that I can agree with. For example, the report says, with the permission of the president: Achieving growth in economic growth is the increase in production. Trends can be enhanced by measures such as investment in technology, education, infrastructure, motivation for innovation and responsible economy, which ensure economic stability. - I can agree with all this. - The government of the United States in the past decade has been responsible. The debt status of the state's funds is good and has been achieved in building a historic large currency supply. - Everything's right. The equivalent of a dollar is still a source of instability. I have to admit, a respectable president, that at least what I've learned in economics cannot argue that the dollar is a source of instability, but it takes a dollar swing in harmony with the economic situation, for of course, all currency may take rhythms, even though it is true that the fluctuations may vary. It is a trait of the Icelandic crown that it involves more rhythms than many others of currency. As you continue reading through the report, it is quite clear that it is a natural attachment to the existing proposal and is expected to be discussed below, i.e. to the European Union will agree on business negotiations. I'm sure I'll take this opportunity to discuss it, too, but it's a suggestion that I don't agree with. Although these ideas did not get much time in this hall since I sat down at the council, they have often been discussed since I began to participate in political activity, both the entrance into the European Union and the taking up of another currency, or connected us with a foreign currency. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was having a nice speech earlier. I can't say that I agree with his conclusion or his vision, but it's just good and blessed. That's the way it's supposed to be here, too. But it is really unrealistic to intend to associate the Icelandic kroner with euro if the European Union is not at the same time targeted. In fact, it can be read very clearly through the report and in the language of each article. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, who gave a talk earlier and also responded. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson Perhaps I thought that the debate would be about the pros and cons of the Icelandic crown and the pros and cons of recording or connecting us with another currency. Of course, the discussion has been about which currency would be the most wise thing to associate with or record. Then you might ask yourself: " Why is there a suggestion to connect us with the euro? It is not as if the euro are our biggest business countries, although they are certainly large in that context, it is the United States and the United Kingdom that neither EU has. Over the years, the debate has gone out with some suggestions to link us with another currency. However, I view this discussion as taking us to the place we are today, just to be with the Icelandic crown of our own Icelandic crown. In view of what was said in a talk earlier on about the members of the board - and I'm not speaking for all but whatever group I belong to - I would like to say that it is exactly the clear foreign policy of Iceland that we trust in international commerce. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs has assigned a number of reports to the council and how we improve their status. In addition, there is the highest. Employment ministers have also developed policies on how to trust the state of the Icelandic industry. In this context, we have often been called the increase in knowledge, innovation, research, and science. I think we've had a lot of important operations in the last few years to improve the interests of these sectors, which are of utmost importance to us. A respectable president continues: What are the reasons for recording or connecting us to the euro? I think the only evidence is actually the context that we'll soon discuss in the discussion on whether we're going to become members of the European Union. Perhaps it is the big question and normal, since there is not much left of my time here, to spend time discussing it. The report and the recently heard talks have no compelling reason for why it should be euro. Why not other currency? And what about the benefits of the Icelandic crown? Yes, they are significant indeed. I'm not gonna say it's perfect, and of course we've had the problem of swinging it, but just because we've done well in the last business of the economy, we're seeing an environment that we've never seen before with a very low interest level, a growing level that's never known before. I don't know why. Senators who speak for this - this is the joy of having more people in the hall to observe the speech - believe in itself that if we associated with the euro, Europe's supply of action would take into account the economic situation in Iceland. Is it likely that the fluctuations in Germany or France are completely comparable to those in Iceland? Of course, these are the big countries and the larger economic areas that Europe sees. A respectable president. Although there are many things to agree with in this fine paper that speaks of Iceland as a trustworthy spokesmen who truly are and our responsible management in the last few years, it is difficult to read into the argument that this is the way. As I said earlier, I rejoice that the matter has been discussed, for I have been bored with the presentation that people here are afraid to take the discussion. In my mind, this matter has been discussed a lot and a long time, but I'm quite ready to take it back, and I'm here with you. But at the same time, I say, "Someone has a why." Congress officials have failed to convince me of the value of what is suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u56	A respectable president. Observed, including In the Federal Association of Money, there is evidence that the dollar is swinging, not swinging, and the incidence fluctuations of the Icelandic flag are higher than typically in other OECD countries; therefore, the fluctuations of the gang's gang effect may be larger than in other developed countries. It just means extra spells in the homes. We have fallen, blessedly, but we still have three to five times higher interest here in Iceland than anywhere else. We have far more inflation than in any other place since the viral epidemic. Then you wonder about the messages the bank manager sent to the store. They were pretty clear to me, he said: "Low prices, my dear store, or the late bank is getting bigger. " It was pretty much the basic text that came from the bank manager the other day. I say, "If we had a fixed currency, it would not have to be used in this way to one industry above others, since interest and price would also be low. ' I want to ask you why. Senator: Why is inflation higher here, eight times higher than in Denmark at viral time? One of the main arguments, including The Independence Party for having an Icelandic crown has always been that we defend ourselves against the pursuit of unemployment. I realize that the virus is the most effective solution to tourism, yet we are experiencing the biggest unemployment in the nation's history, and long - term lack of work is growing despite the crown. I'd also like to ask why. Senator: Why do big business, that I remind you of six of the largest fishing companies in the fishing road, into foreign coins? Why do the largest companies in foreign currency make up? Why do the public need to spend time with the Icelandic crown while an Icelandic company is able to settle in foreign currency?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. She asked about unemployment, and I'm sure I'll worry about it. A senator of that. The unemployment rates we see today are totally unacceptable. Yet, they are the numbers we have seen in Europe for a long time, but for us, this is a completely new and hopefully a temporary situation that happens precisely because of what happened. A senator said, dropped travel service in Covid's time. V.E.G. President. I haven't understood the argument with a new currency since unemployment. We have been fortunate here in Iceland to have little unemployment. I believe that we can continue to do so, and it has to do with the action we are in right now, and we need to plan even further on the next two stages, to live well in Iceland so that they can recover from the virus. The evidence in the New World Translation has been that she works with economic swings, and it has been noted that we have reached low unemployment. I think it's showing, and the short time since Covid struck, and the unemployment we see right now, can't be a reason for the opposite. Hv. A senator also introduced increased spells in Iceland's homes and our paying higher interest, and this is an inflation that has not been practiced in our opposing countries. In fact, in many places there has also been an inflation that is not of good quality, and at the same time, some minimal inflation may be possible rather than the other. But that's true, and that's one of the things I mentioned in my speech, and we've certainly seen, that we see the fluctuations that have become inflation. Yet, we have achieved tremendous success during the last year, just as the report from what happened. A senator does a fine job, and this is our greatest project right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u58	A respectable president. We've had the crown, and we've been saying, "We've got low unemployment." Until now. The crown is not enough for us in this crisis, in this time of crisis. But we have said, "Yes, we have little unemployment, it's just the beat in our society, but against them, dear public, accept your expensive baskets and expensive housing." Consider an example of 40 million. K. An apartment that's bought here and 40 million. K. An apartment purchased in Denmark at the same time. In the end, the Danes pay 49 million for the apartment, while the Icelanders are 84 million. That's 35 million dollars worth paying up one apartment. I think it's a little bit of money, especially for young people who are putting up housing: This is the big movie we want to draw out. I'd like to reiterate my question: Why would a Icelandic company choose to settle in euros and be authorized, or dollars like an industrial firm, some of whom, while the public is stuck with the risks of the crown itself? Why is that so? This is what we're drawing out. We will continue to draw it out and ask why it is so that even though interest levels are now low, they are still being warned about the future financial burden. The bank manager even draws it. so that when people buy housing and borrow money they need to pay from the coming decades, they need to remember that the money they earn is now low but will not be in the future. Homes are taking enormous risks, but government funds are also being drawn into them and taking enormous risk of success from foreign loans. [[The president calls.]] It is a change in government policy from the beginning of the pandemic, when the government first decided to go to finance a debt fund and we supported it. [[The president calls.]] But then the government scrambled and went to foreign loans, and it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u59	A respectable president. I apologize for not being able to answer the question before about the enterprise's development. Like what? A senator entered a large business with permission to settle in foreign currency. But just like what's-his-face. A senator came in not all of them in euros. I think this is one of the natural things in Iceland's small islands allows their international companies to do because they work in a international market. I can't quite figure out the context of something that goes with it. A senator, as if it would change everything, even if we were with Euro, if these companies wouldn't want to settle on dollars if they've chosen it so far or any other currency. A respectable president. Hv. A senator also spoke here about the loan costs of the homes. I can totally agree, and it's one of our major tasks to make sure that inflation is low here and growth is normal. They have to say, as it is, that they have done very well in the past and difficult to see that they would in some way change and be better if the euro were here. Hv. A senator makes up arguments that are very useful, that the diet is less expensive in the European Union. Yes, it is. We know, me and Icelanders, when we travel abroad, that we get a considerable amount of money. But it is also natural to pay in Iceland is much higher than in most of the European countries, so there is no less money to buy, better if there is, and I know that it is. A senator knows very well what he has done for us Icelanders from a global point of view or because we have the Icelandic crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u60	Mr. President. Here is a small challenge: Which group wrote this text? The highest advantage of developing closer cooperation with the European Union is, in view of most of the economic stability in enabling to adopt the European Union's common currency, the euro. And only further into this same text from the same party, by permission of the President, he calls it XXX: In the context of Article 18 of the economic programme that remains to be agreed on by the Icelandic government and IMF, it is considered that at the end of the programme, the Icelanders can adopt EUR as currency. Which one wrote those words? It was the 2008 Independence Party. This is the special opinion of the Independence Party. This is likely the policy of the Independence Party. Senator. I wonder, " What has changed? ' How is it that the independence party, which thinks they are the terms of an Icelandic job life - which, in my opinion, is one of the biggest lies and misunderstandings of commercial life -- how do you know that this large category, which now goes by phone, all the way during our lifetime, has completely turned aside from the interests of the majority of Icelandic companies? Why is it that this class, the Independence Party, has the main interests of a very narrow group of companies in mind? It's the fishing business, it's the bus companies, it's the aluminium companies, and it's the property companies. These are the companies that settle in euro but profit from the crown. It's a business that's profiting from the gang crash. Remember, with a plagiarism, the value of the crown is dwindled. Then we are moving valuables from the public to the export. [[The president calls.]] This is a clear example of this class's special interest. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: What changed from the fact that those words were written in 2008 when the Independence Party wanted to pick up the euro? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u61	A respectable president. I don't know exactly which piece. A senator refers to, but the Independence Party, as a class, has not concluded in a way that he wants to pick up the euro. On the other hand, as I told you earlier, this discussion has been going on within the Independence Party, as well as in the probable other categories and in the community for a considerable period of time. This isn't a new discussion. The results of this discussion have led us to the place where we are today. And like a cot. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came in so well into his speech earlier, it is unrealistic to plan to adopt the euro without joining the European Union. I couldn't understand a word of it. A senator better here than he was talking about it. It was carefully examined in its own time, and voices indicated that it might be preferable to connect us or to pick up the euro. But there was also a discussion about it, and that was even. Check within the Independence Party, whether it is necessary to examine the Canadian dollar, the Norwegian kroner, or the euro. Of course, the pound and the dollar have also been mentioned in these materials. So this is probably one of the most widely considered cases. But there's another case coming. Of course, I aim to dismiss it altogether. Although the independent party may be smaller than it should be, it is still the largest category at the council and the largest category in recent surveys.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u62	Mr. President. Recently, the head of the Independence Party made an interview and blamed the public's pay raise on inflation, which is the third largest in Europe. It was a very suitable and peculiar statement, especially when you consider the cause of the inflation in Iceland today, which is what? Yes, the crown's gang drop. The crown is the framer. Last year, when the U.S. dollar falls to EUR 15%, it is quickly infected with inflation. It becomes a so-called gang leak. This has a direct effect on these matters. The cause of inflation in Iceland is a dollar, not a public raise. We see that there are more than 200 companies in Iceland who make up in other currency and the euro is the most popular currency in the world. Quartets are to ask themselves this question: Why are capital owners, our billionaires, and the supermodels are prepared to defend the crown so hard when these groups either renovate into a foreign currency or engage in vast gang control that is out of range? The reason is obvious, Mr. President. These people profit from the crown. If you have money, like money owners, you have lots of money, then high interest rates are good. The price of money is the price of words. If so, insurance is also good, for it protects the budget for inflation. In fact, inflation is not bad for rich people. When it comes to the development, she is regularly helped through the gang fold. Walking means more currency to the fishing project. It's a mass transfer of value from national and public to the export sector. It's all about money, Mr. President, and the independence party's interests are so masked in this regard. Therefore, I proselytism, this old party, let us call it, for good works, and to hide behind the general interests of Icelandic employment. Icelandic companies need stability, they need the same currency as their rivals in Europe. Thus, we strengthen and promote the competitiveness of Icelandic professional life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u63	A respectable president. I have a problem. I did not notice any direct question, but that was certainly an encouragement. Now I have to admit that I thought it was a problem. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson's simple economic theory was quite significant here when he spoke of the inflation earlier, especially because I remember having been in time with him. When he was a teacher, a senator was talking about economics. In this discourse, he decided to take only a very specific part and to take advantage of his language. A respectable president. The last word is what it's about. A senator is certain to be words I would have signed and spoke some ten, fifteen years ago, probably since, i.e. The Icelandic company needs stability, I agree with it, and it's important for all of us, and even if an Icelandic company would have to be able to settle or live with the same coins as business countries. That is why the opinion of what would be the most suitable currency for Iceland was so reputed. A respectable president. As indicated in the speech of two. There's no way this is the answer to a senator before that. Taking up euro one - sided isn't a solution, it's just unrealistic, and it's not even possible. Whatever it is. The senator is actually suggesting and those members of the Parliament who make this suggestion are joining the European Union. And that should be the discussion: What are the advantages and weaknesses of walking in the European Union? I have no doubt that we will take that discussion below, not that she has never been taken. It has been taken very often, and the interest of Icelandic voters has been very small in walking in the European Union, thanking God.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u64	A respectable president. I'm going to begin by celebrating that these matters are being discussed in the Hall of Congress, i.e. In general, the currency in general has to do with the economy. It is also true to say that the person standing here is totally free of any criticism in these matters, so if you allow yourself to be accused of such things, the one involved here is striving to be professional, modern, and not least open - minded, so you take to heart the terms that are used in the discussion these days. I'd like to look at this discussion in perhaps a little more context than just a little discussion about whether it's worth a dollar or the European common currency of many countries, Euro. Of course, it is proper to keep in mind, and it will not be avoided in this discussion that all coins swing, all currency. They struggle with the economy in countries where they are most used. There is no single example in the Icelandic crown, including the euro and the rest of the world's currency. In that way, there is some competition in the world between the mint areas. One large coin area relates to a U.S. dollar, a specific currency area, which is actually not only bound to the United States but also to other countries using the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar may be the currency that can be said to be the largest currency, most of all, because it is used worldwide. But then we have the euro, the Asian market, and so on. So there's a certain advantage in such competition between areas, between coins and coin spots, which I think are proper for humans only. This Parliamentary proposal for starting discussions on the film of EUR here, i.e. attaching the crown to euro and may have little difference, but there is some difference between absorbing the euro completely but attaching it, it is proposed by foreword that such a solidity would create stability here on the land. Of course, there is a need to reflect on a steady balance in the field of success and to consider, as mentioned at the outset, that the euro is also swinging, not in terms of the Icelandic economy, but in terms of the economy of other countries. However, it should also be kept in mind that little is so bad that there is no good at all. The flexibility we have had in the Icelandic crown has made stability in other areas, although the instability that has been observed has been linked to the value of the crown. I may mention the most important thing, and that is the professional level in the country. I think it's undisputed that we've managed to maintain a level of employment here as a constant and low unemployment, and, of course, it'll be at someone's expense, we figured it out. One of these factors is exactly the flexibility of the Icelandic Crown, where we have taken a certain cost of keeping away from us Iceland's massive lesion that the European Union has experienced and have had in years of permanent unemployment, a continuing high unemployment rate. I think it's very important that people keep this in mind when they talk about the crown and its instability and swings. You see, it's swinging for a reason. And I'd also like to draw out when people mention the connection of a cent to Euro that others have. People before me have mentioned that it may be, if they want to tie the Icelandic crown to some currency, that the euro is not necessarily the most convenient thing to do. Instead, we should put our eggs in many baskets and connect the crown to more currency, and especially to the currency on which the Icelandic foreign market is based, both import and export. It is not necessarily predominant in the European countries and may even vary from time to time. It may also be useful to associate the crown with other resource costs, with countries that we do not even have much foreign business with, but based on a similar economy as ours, i.e. on natural resources. Iceland's foreign store is diverse, and there is no single currency in the future. In this regard, the future of the euro must also be in mind. It is also good to remember that predicting currency is some risk factor that goes away only less with currency that is linked to other currency. In the end, though, I want to mention what matters most to me. These global challenges that I think we can all agree with are certain challenges, the instability that may be, and we call the gang-related challenges, have at least the currency itself to do more than much more with the international economy and the economy in the countries around us, but especially the situation here at home for us, the government of the state. The swings of our currency and other currency are the result of some problem but are not the problem. It must not be overlooked. I'd like to finally say, because I started my speech and my case, let's just say how far I'm open and that I'd like to indicate that I just want to propose an idea, which I think the authors of the Parliament-sense proposal should just wonder, "Why tie themselves to one currency? Why not just walk away from the freedoms of men, homes, and businesses of the land to use the currency they choose? Thus, people choose with their own wallet or with their purse or with their legs or what they want to call it. I recall that long ago, in the last century, where banks saw mints, they were competing for currency, and it was just a fairly stable currency that was achieved for nearly 100 years in many countries. I think it would be interesting to take more discussions about this in this room, the question about why we're leaving the state to strike coins or, as political paraphernalia wants, leave it to foreign states after cutting coins or affecting the economy of this country. Why not - I was going to tell you that I'm going to cancel the Icelandic crown law, but I don't think it's necessary, but it might need to revise the songs that are from 1968, if I can remember, and allow other currency to be allowed to settle into foreign currency if they want it and thus get some competition for the currency. So it turned out, they'd be very far in the open vision, and I'm not gonna force such vastness on people, but I'm gonna mention this here, that the next step would be the question of why we were letting the government itself beat the coin. Of course, others could, and we have suggested it in all kinds of electrical coins that are about to surface. This case, I think, should be here on a far greater scale in the conference hall, not from such a narrow perspective, as is the case in this council arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u65	Mr. President. It was an interesting speech. A senator and a lot of fun there. I can agree with a lot of things, e.g. has basically spoken from an institution of the Piratars in a positive way for the establishment of the media of various types and for the granting of a currency, in a more consistent manner. But I wanted to be curious about a few things, and one thing is wrong. A senator spoke about the risks of prophesying. Now there are quite a number of countries with some sort of career goal towards another currency, some other currency as an anchor. There are 38 countries worldwide with the U.S. dollar as their anchor, 25 countries with an anchor, and eight people with some sort of coin basket as an anchor. These include both small countries and a small amount of countries, such as Iran, Coovo, Bosnia-Herovia, Sao Tome, and Principe, etc. I wonder what. A senator has studied these countries, one of those countries who are doing such an anchoring thing. If this danger of prophesying is so important - I agree that it exists - why do these countries go this way? Is there not some protection that makes anchoring up to another currency more acceptable in the case of 60 and even 70 countries that do this in one way or another? Remember, too, that there is more than one way to bind such an anchor. [[The president calls.]] It's not just hard as it is, it's a crawling arrangement and other things like that. [[The president calls.]] And that's exactly what I'd like to say, just because it's a last word. Senator, I disagree that this is a simple suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to start with a correct guess. However, a senator I thank for the counter, I did not end up with my case calling the synonym simply, hopefully I wouldn't use that kind of speech. However, I mentioned it as an example of a discussion of these matters from a narrow angle, a narrow angle. [[Yeah.]] I would have encouraged the move to look at the currency in a much wider context, as I was referring to earlier, and therefore wonder, if the Icelandic cent is still being tied to some currency currency, whether it was closer to looking at other currency at a time or at least in this synonym, however, why does it involve tying the crown to euro, not some other currency that might take more into account our economy and our fluctuations? I can't tell you what currency it would be, maybe a Norwegian dollar, maybe the Canadian dollar, or any other currency in countries that have a lot of natural resources, I mentioned it as an example. Now or the U.S. dollar, there's the most experience in the world with some kind of connection or at least the use of the U.S. government, although it may not have the will or the particular consciousness of the government there. Hv. A senator specifically asked me if I knew the countries he mentioned. I just answer right away: No, I don't know how they've made it, those who have established their currency in this way. But I remember that Britain and the British pound were attacked by fortune - tellers at the time when it was in some currency business. I just point out that prophesying is a threat to the entire state. [[The president calls.]] All currency can suffer such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u67	Mr. President. With that. A senator mentions Britain as a famous example. I think it was 1991. There was a small technical difference between the two, so it wasn't necessarily the tie that caused that propheticness to work. However, there are many countries, some of which are natural developing countries, and not necessarily desirable that we are following too much of their footprints, but also large and stopped countries, such as Singapore, who rely on such a sophisticated arrangement by linking with many currency. I can totally say that maybe we should be watching some kind of technical connection with a coin basket that would consist of the currency we're most using. Then I have to admit that I find it a little strange that the focus is at hand. A senator is on a dollar and a Norwegian dollar, but not on the euro, which is exactly an excellent currency that we use in our business in this country and that is of great importance. But I still understand the goal of what's going on. I don't suppose a senator is knocking the euro off the table. I hope that's not the right thing to do. But, anyway, I think we have to remember in this conversation that it's not just about a free dollar with the inflation goal of picking up Euro, but it's so many points in between, for example. The arrangement I'm going to discuss in my talk below, which Croatia recorded over a period of time, and a number of other things I think we might make a lot of money by becoming better acquainted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u68	A respectable president. No, it would not be far-sighted to take anything out of the table, for I did not. I was the very essence of my speech just to shed light on these matters in much greater context. Of course, if you are interested in attaching the Icelandic crown to any currency, the euro can be considered there, the euro alone, but also the possibility that there would be euro with other currency in some basket or other currency. I only mentioned Norway as an example, for Norway, of course, is a product of an economy similar to ours, i.e. with natural resources, though they may have stable natural resources, and yet. Oil is not necessarily a stable natural resource. But they are also built on a fishing road, and when there is a crisis with us, it is not likely that they will give up as well in Norway. The economics of countries whose natural resources are abundant often flunked in rhythm, and that's why I mentioned it. These are all factors that I think interested persons should have considered, and I would have thought that this proposal should have been done as well. But my main point in this discussion was to raise the question, Why tie yourself to one currency? Hv. The traveller of this council concluded it here, and I seem to have a problem with it. A senator believes it is a wonder that professional life in other currency works out. I'm just celebrating. I've always been happy if my business wants to do it. But I'm just saying, " Why don't you just do it again? ' Why is it not for anyone else to settle on currency other than the crown?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u69	Mr. President. I'm going to start by thanking for this discussion because it's far too seldom that we have a good discussion about money policy and money matters here, especially in the last two years. It doesn't really take very much to get me involved in money policy discussions, especially because there's an excellent proposal here to investigate whether or not a better arrangement can be adopted and in this case request a discussion with the European Council of Ministers on the cooperation of currency and mutual safety prevention, which I think is the key point of this proposal, at least in my opinion. This has been discussed in the discussion until people have been trying to make it a simplified, polarist discussion, i.e. There is some type of doubleism about it being either a free dollar - a thousand dollars - that may be technically correct - or then a recording of euro. As always in such discussions, there are speculative facts about how it works. But the fact is, it's all a lot more complicated than that, and more fun than just two ways. The proposal referred to a report entitled Iceland's Options in Pension and Gangs, which date 2012 and may well be a reason to renew it at the end of the next ten years. She was fine in her time, fun reading. But I found it interesting, perhaps critical, on a report that she did not work out the global tools. Each year since 2004, the World Bank Department has published a relatively simple report, but it is now quite good and powerful by permission of presidents of the Eastern Report on Exchange Arrangements and Experiences, or the European Year Report on the Organizational Policy and Business. One of the things that are always interesting to look at in that report is a list of nearly every country in the world and what arrangements they use, and there are quite a number of systems. What makes them most separate is that they work for some sort of policy system that separates them from money policy. You can have just about any money policy and then have some sort of a gang policy at a convention. In terms of money policy, there may be key examples of inflation targets, such as we have in Iceland. It is a financial goal that is trying to adjust the amount of money in traffic, which many have spoken in recent years. There are also many countries with policy targets. There are, in fact, 45 countries with an arrangement that is different from the three majors, and these are of various ways. You could, for example, be there. Consider the Azerbaijan, an anchor for the U.S. dollar until when an oil price collapsed, they had to change, so they now have a different arrangement. Then, countries with some sort of anchor, binding to the U.S. dollar, to euro, to some sort of coin basket, or in some case with something other than this. These categories may include not a direct mint but an international index or something similar. The ways that are effective include one - sided use of another currency, and some have said that this is a motion. There are not many countries that practice it, but most of them use American dollars. There are several countries that are named with a single application of euro, but in reality it's signed, Cosvo, Montenegro, and San Marino. If we say that not having an independent currency is on one side and the free river is on the other, the next step is not to have an independent currency to have some kind of currency advice that has some sort of organized binding to another currency. It's, for example. used in Bosnia-Hertyvia and Bulgaria against the euro. It is good to note that the Bosnian target, KM, or KM, is tied to the original score in the German target, the way it is. Then there are traditional gang connections, which are very common and many African countries, which are bound to the euro in this way through the Federal Bank of France. This is what is called a stability program in which both Croatia and northern Macedonia are in. Then there is the crawling ganglinks and sophistication, which are only more open than just a gypsy mechanism, so there is a turnaround, and then there is a liquid, perennial fixation. I'd like to talk only in these two or three minutes that I have left of a crawling gang connection. For a long time, when Croatia was on her way to walk in the European Union, and more countries have actually used this, a moving system was used until it was taken exactly the balance of swings. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen mentioned earlier. Different economys are moving in different rhythms and in order to bring the gang rhythm to the Croatian cow gradually closer to the euro's gang fluttering factor: It is not a fixed link on a gang log but is an updated date logistic. I remember it was a six-month period. At that time, the average gang flutter of the time was taken and it was the new control group. Then, the gang was allowed to flutter at a certain angle from that point of reference. This arrangement is particularly good when we sometimes make extensive international transactions with just one block in that we allow both our special status, our own flutter, we are not fully opening up to the forecasting risks that are present on a fixed gang or a solid anchor, but we are at the same time turning our economy into harmonization with another bigger currency. This arrangement is widely used, usually for a short period of time, and usually in order to produce better integration between economic systems. I missed that this arrangement was fully reviewed in the Iceland case report for currency and gangs. It didn't even mention it, but I might fail. But this is something I think, and has been holding for a very long time, and has been giving talks before at the Council, that is one of the most interesting advantages for Iceland in the next few years. This will reach both our goals for some kind of money independence and our goals for improving Europe's economic systems and further working with European countries. It was a bit inaccessible, Mr. President, but I hope it has returned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u70	Mr. President. It's fine to have these matters discussed here. It's actually classic. The great emphasis as a wave. The speaker puts this matter into practice at times, thinking that this is almost the only case he can offer. Mr. President. Every state chooses to care for its interests when it comes to the currency. It involves a huge interest in employment, homes, and the public. The taking up of the coins of another nation or of an alliance, as discussed here, implies the nature of the matter, according to a considerable exercise of sovereignty. Europe's late bank in Frankfurt controls the euro, to the extent that the market does not, and it largely does so in the light of German and French interests. It is absolutely impossible that Icelandic interests would be considered to the decisions of the European Environment Agency when it comes to making decisions about the European issues. So, what are we looking for is the coin we live here, depending on German French interests? That's a very persistent question, Mr. President. The European Union's Mediterranean is causing considerable problems, as we know. The European Union's hardness showed the British in their exits from the European Union, Begreitt, is e.g. Understandably, in view of the need to teach the countries, the Mediterranean, the lesson that it would best not be considered to be missing the relationship no matter how difficult it was for them to live in the euro. As a result of a discussion with a Norwegian crown, it should be remembered that it is a piece of oil and that it is very sensitive to the fluctuations in the global market price of oil. There is no way that we can benefit from linked with such a coin that depends on the flounder of an international oil market. We are, and know it very well, in a delicate position towards the external traumas that have affected our country. We know who these traumas can be, it can be a shock to our products, it may have to be brought together in fishing, so I just mention a well - known example of such traumas. The question, then, is only where these traumas occur, perhaps in some way in which they can be softened as far as possible. We know from experience that such external traumas have, in effect, resulted in a weakness in the success of the crown, and thus the burdens have been distributed. So let's discuss how fair or just such distribution is, but that's how we know it. If a dollar was attached to the euro or because of other coins, the consequences of such tragedy would be otherwise. Then there's only two options for a main policy, I'd like to say, to distribute. On the one hand, it would be necessary to show up in the financial resources of the state, with a narrowing of expenses and debt collections, to the extent possible for further maintenance of the state, the second of which is the labour market. And there are only two factors; one is a marked shrinkage, while otherwise significant unemployment is achieved. The people who come here and talk about our national interest to live up to German interests, mostly, and French how we manage our economic situation and how we deal with the sad events that are sometimes inevitable must explain how they see the outcome that I've done here. They must explain what our interests really are. The two issues mentioned here are repeated regarding the link between the euro and the European Union and the European Union. They will have to explain what real position we would have in such cooperation. It's this phrase to sit at the table. Of course, that sounds very good, and all of that. But what would be the real effect that we have, and to what extent will our interests be taken into account?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Unauthorised Ólafur of Ísleifsson for the introductory. To draw attention to and recall the link between Germany and France. I want to point 'em. A senator who he knows more than I do, that Danir is linked to euro. Then there are our distant friends, who are in a position to have a job life that is just like us. It provides the basis for fishing, fishing, agriculture, and then tourism. It's all worked out just fine in the Faeroe Islands. They are for not filming, which I might have thought was the point. A senator would call attention to the struggle with the insurance policy that has, in many cases, been a great source of ill - treatment for Icelandic employment. In fact, great preschoolers in the labor movement have spoken of removing the insurance insurance while I believe the way is to link us to the euro and to the future mice is naturally to join the European Union and adopt the euro. But all of this is presented in an effort to ensure stability, forethought. The government has chosen it even. ... toreflectanfinanceofa state fund by borrowing in the financial economy. She has begun taking foreign loans. The first loan was one 116 billion with all the success risks it holds for the state funds and homes. The government has also begun to indicate that there will be a significant environment when, in reality, it is only 15 minutes since the entire workforce rejoiced that we had come out of the environment. We all know that there will be a problem with the economic environment and evidence that there will be significant consequences for the competitiveness of Iceland's professional life, and I'm not talking about attracting foreign capitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm just gonna grab off the last ball she threw up, but she talked about the competition between Icelandic pros. Is it really possible to really talk about the fact that Icelandic life has its own interests under how rivers in Germany and France live with coins where decisions are taken out of German-French interests and are completely unrelated to our basic working roads? Hv. A member of the U.S. Senate was able to come down from many parts of the U.S.A. But what may have been most obvious was that. A senator was totally missing the key point in my speech. What guide does the senator see to it that the consequences of external trauma, to which our national preparation is sensitive, are to be observed? On the other hand, I talked about the budget and the labour market and the interest of the people. Then there is a reason. A senator's insurance policy, and it seems, if I get the point. A member of the Parliament, with the right opinion that the nation is in a kind of hostage with this insurance policy, that it must be won to enter this European Union with all respect for it, so that it may be released from the yoke established by the insurance policy. And I've missed support. A senator and her party to the lawsuit that has been sustained by those who want to free the nation from this insurance policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u73	A respectable president. I was simply pointing my tail. A senator says that this is the simplest, most convenient and sensible way to get rid of the insurance I know of. A senator is very opposed. Hv. A senator repeatedly asks where the effect is, and I want to repeat my answer to it: "Why should it be somehow different for us Icelanders than for the Faeroes? Why should the economic events be somehow different here? Much more than that, by associating us with a constant currency, we will ensure stability, a sense of destiny, that is, something truly amazing. Residents have much less systems, but they have done well by indirectly connecting themselves to the euro. With regard to the labour market and what we need to record there, totally independent of the recording of a new currency or link, it is in my opinion to take a similar approach to the Norwegian labour market model. We need to keep the signs at work, so we're looking at how the export roads work on the pay raise. There's something that we have to go through. I know it's a poison in the bones of some, but I believe it is important that the workers of the workforce continue to work on developing a stable labour market model, similar to that, and have attended the North countries with good results for the homes and businesses in those countries. I assume we're allowed to have the North countries as a standard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u74	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentions both the insurance and the work practices of a labour market. Of course, it is a matter that the workers of the workforce themselves must work out. There have been ideas of increasingly taking into account the way things are organized in our neighboring countries, which are absolutely out of their hands and not in our work at the World Council to tell people what to do in that regard. But, hey. A senator here refers to stability and forethought, and the fact is that we have been far better successful in economic matters over the years as economic support has become more and more intense. It says we live at least we have much more stability, to form in prices, than we, here, have known most of our lives. We were also in a position to be a net borrower from abroad, and instead of being a net borrower, we had become an easy lender to foreign lands. I think it would be fine in this discussion to discuss matters from the position we are in. But I'm going to let me finish this by saying that I completely regret that we Icelanders have our best interests at what is best for Germany and France. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u75	A respectable president. Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, and Spain. We've got 17 states with it. A senator submits to French-American interests and has his economic system on French-colored terms. So these are the 17 countries, as well as the above countries, who use euro, and none of these countries have plans to stop using euro. So these states and those who rule these countries have not heard that this is only French- German interests. French- German interests, what's that? Is there a special alliance between France and Germany? Are France and Germany one state? Do France and Germany have the same interests in all their economic affairs? And if you look to the story, if we look to the history of Europe, has France and Germany remained there in possession of one another through the centuries? You ask yourself. Or could it be that France and Germany and the previously diagnosed 17 countries have found some sort of compromise on how to live a certain basis in the competitive environment and the economic environment of their countries, so that all will sit at the same table as they can, and all will try to play by similar guidelines? Could it be that the euro is a successful example of how to work together?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the answer, but in chapters and in my own ears, I could hardly really believe it. Has a what? A European - class senator who places great importance on involvement in the European Union did not hear that Germany and France are influential in the European Bank? Has he not heard that the euro is a compromise with the Germans? It is a continuation of the German target. Has a what? A senator didn't hear about this? Gonna go for it. A senator really objected here in the General's symposium that Germany and France are influential within the European Central Bank? And what do you mean, I'm going to ask, Mr President, to refer to the German and French communication over the centuries? What does that mean in this discussion? The European Union was founded, as it is known, in six states, then called the European Kola and Steel Alliance, a business union. Of course, people have been endeavoring to learn from intense experience in dealing with these people over the centuries. This large European board of men has now been developed in ways that include Germany and France, which are the focus and control of the European Union's issues and have taken care of the euro. Before going to France, a new chancellor is hardly taken in Germany to visit the president, and a new president has hardly taken over before going to Berlin. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These know men, and I would have thought they were. A senator might have heard about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u77	A respectable president. What is the significance of reviewing the story? It has meaning, of course, the highest. President, because that is the prerequisite for this coalition, it was two world wars in the 20th century. Have I heard that Germany and France have a powerful influence within Europe's World Bank? Yes, of course I've heard about it, and I'm well aware of it. However, that was not what lay before them. A senator earlier, that's not what a man pulled out of his speech, but the other thing is that all the euro business is being done on the terms of the Germans and the French. That Germany and France are the only ones in charge there, and other countries, the 17 countries that I mentioned earlier, these 17 sovereign countries that are there voluntarily, sharing in the European community and have not heard of them being there in some kind of French-American captivity - these countries all and those in charge believe that their economics are better off in this cooperation. And no state has any intention of quitting that partnership. French and Germans. It may be closer to draw out a little bit of a real problem, and now I'm talking about our cousins Ira. On the one hand, we have a community on the south side where everything is in blossom, where there is a European community, and then we have a business on the north side, in Northern Ireland, a community where everything is in cold water.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u78	Mr. President. Right away. A senator is speaking of German-French captivity, it is clear that the senator believes that he is severely distressed here in the discussion because no one has mentioned any slavery in this regard, but it has been talked about the impact and the viewpoint of decision making in the institutions discussed. But because of him. A senator is now culturally aware, as the people around the world know, let me tell you that he must have felt for the Greeks when we saw the treatment they faced in Greece, this ancient culture that we look upon with great admiration, could be deprived of sovereignty and independence. A whole generation suffered the prospect that they will never see financially in the land following the treatment of Greece. So what? A senator who wants to think far and wide of eight might want to consider what would happen to us in the event of a trial. In fact, we know it ourselves because the European Union acted against us in the Icesave case when two European countries were fully applying themselves to us for some form of scruples that were not legal and were rightly at home in the swelling section of the bank that discussed. But they did not need people here who opposed their own people in this matter and are miserable to think. Some of them now exert themselves vigorously - some, I said - that we are going into this relationship. But it would never be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u79	A respectable president. I make a proposal for a resolution of the discussions of involvement in the European Union. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government to initiate a re-interpretation of discussions about involvement in the European Union, dr. Parliamentary Recontraction of Member States, No. 1/137, approved on July 16, 2009. The Prime Minister of Three Committees, having agreed with members of Congress, to direct the preparatory work in cooperation with the Ministry of individuality. The role of the Committee will be to evaluate how and when formal negotiations should be resumed and a proposal to be agreed there, which would be submitted by the Council's clear consent to the National Reconsistencies. The National Convention on Re-Election Meetings is held no later than January 2022. If my hopes and odds come true, we will first contribute to the increased discussions and information on the European Union, but I heard from earlier talks that I could not do. Second, we are ensuring that the country's young generation has double national fees, on the one hand, to maintain national pay, after group cooperation, after a discussion in the community, on whether or not we should take the small but important step of continuing our discussions with the European Union, not just to have some drawer paper left by mental interest in the State Ministry of State, regardless of who the State Minister is at any time. Third, if such a suggestion were then accepted, the nation would have the opportunity to express their opinion about a contract that would be on the table. With this, we are making sure that the nation has a very clear approach to the process. The purpose of the proposal is to fulfill the will of the Council, which was described by the coming resolution of July 16, 2009, mentioned earlier, but no other conclusion has been made by the Council. In addition to this conclusion, the prime minister will be assigned to appoint the committee of whom I could and try to ensure, on the contrary, cooperation in the Ministry and also between them in order to promote information and conversation in the nation on the importance of taking the step of continuing talks. In view of the new and changed circumstances and in order to strengthen the material preparation of the situation, it is also right for the committee to start work by calling on experts and providing a report on the importance of international cooperation before Iceland in the coming years. I think it's very important that we make an assessment because there are rich voices up here and strong within the government. No doubt it will be part of the campaign to choose between groups who want only two-way cooperation and those who want international cooperation. Therefore, I also believe that a report on the importance of international cooperation will be submitted. Of course, the purpose is to strengthen the national sovereignty, to promote political ties, to trust defenses, to promote trade, to improve the economy, and to ensure the progress of Iceland's climate targets. Iceland has now been a quarter of the European Union's internal market involved in the European Union contract on the European Economic Area. The central market is the core of the European Union work. Hence, the EFTA countries are actually adding to the relationship. European legislation shapes the rules of justice in most areas in the country's farming. Thus, the additional steps to the full - time share would be less than what was taken in the early 1990's. Nevertheless, there would be considerable political, democratic, and economic benefits of having the full rights and sitting at the table with the countries closest to us, as Iceland does in the Atlantic Union. Why is there something else about the economic activities of these same countries than about the protective cooperation that has been good for us? The consequences of the Korean epidemic have completely changed economic conditions. Iceland therefore needs to use every opportunity to stimulate innovation, increase trade, and promote economic growth. Increased international cooperation is inevitable for that purpose. The climate has also called for a new step in this area. And I don't ask where the government was, if it wasn't in a fleet with the European Union, when it comes to climate. The European Union's goals and policy in climate change have been similar to that of the government throughout the ideal period. The final step towards a full EU member is, in my opinion, the most intimate and most effective option in this subject. Clearly, the preparation of the case and the discussion itself will take considerable time. For this reason, there is even more reason to get started right away. Economic evidence is there to speed up decisions where possible. At the same time, it is important that they be prepared with great zeal. A national agreement can first be carried out after a general and well - informed discussion. And I can't believe anyone's against it. Of course, changes in currency are the most important work at hand. Therefore, the movers have concomitantly made this suggestion, and we made it earlier, proposed for Congress and there they discuss the importance of talking to the European Union about cooperation in currency and mutual interracial protection. If there is rapid success in the currency business, there is, of course, room to prepare carefully the final steps for a full EU member. And, of course, it will never be done without the nation, each step with the nation. As I mentioned, on July 16, 2009, the General Assembly agreed to commit the government to put in an application for involvement in the European Union. Less than a year after the 2013 switch of the government, a foreign minister then proposed a proposal to make a resolution to the application. She lived at the General Assembly and was not paid off. So since then, the General has not concluded a different course. The proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2014 met with fierce opposition in society. A total of 53,555 Icelanders signed a challenge requiring a national agreement on whether to continue their discussion. In the spring of 2015, the secretary of state wrote a letter to the head of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. It said that the government did not intend to re-start Memberal negotiations and it would not be necessary to view Iceland as an applicant state. The creation of the 2016 government required a contract that the Council could conclude the terms of the terms agreed to provide a national principle for the continuation of Member State discussions. In the government covenant brought by the Independence Party, it was guaranteed that there would be a discussion and a vote for the continuation of the case. The rich requirement for the collection of signature for the nation's approval of the continuation of the European Union will not be ignored. In view of the length of time since the approval of the 2009 Parliamentary resolution, representatives submit the procedure to the General approval, after the necessary preparation, a new proposal for the continuation of the meeting. However, its value will be subject to the approval of the nation of total pay. It would be a binding national law. I haven't changed that opinion since I took part in the vote on July 16, 2009. I, along with the current chairman of the Independence Party, suggested that there be a national agreement for the beginning of conversation. I still believe that we should approach the people in such a big and important matter and not be afraid of it. The terms of the final holding of a contract, if this synonym were to be agreed with, would then be again subject to the General Assembly and the nation's total pay. Since the end of World War II, Iceland has been involved in many international cooperation. The purpose has been to strengthen the status of the country in cultural, political, cultural, and economic and commercial communities. It is unmistakably that this multilingual cooperation has strengthened national sovereignty and has improved its economy. In 1944, Iceland became a member of the Bretton Woods Conference for a multinational currencies service. Member of the United Nations organization. Then Iceland became one of the founders of the Atlantic Community and participated in the establishment of the Northern Council. Iceland validated the European Convention in 1953 and was founded on the European Court of Human Rights six years later, blessed. Iceland also participated in the general customs and trade agreement, GATT, in the late 1960's and is a member of the World Trade Organization, WTO. At the beginning of the 1970's, European Free Trade Associations came into the European Union's internal market with the European Economic Area Convention in the early 1990's. As a result, in 2001 there was involvement in the Schengen cohesion work of the European Union. All these steps were in their own way responding to the changed circumstances. They show that under the circumstances of that time, it was considered the most wise thing to take refuge and secure the interests of the country in various international cooperations. All this cooperation has developed and changed over the years. In some cases, the political and economic importance of individual organisations has increased but decreased in others. Because of their size, Iceland's international impact will always be limited. On the other hand, the Member States of the European Atlantic Alliance, the European Free Trade Association, and the Northern Council have shown that Iceland's effectiveness is greater when it sits at the table. The European Union's internal market has adopted European legislation, which is the dominant authority in all aspects of national development. Transporters believe that this would strengthen the state of Europe and increase the impact of taking a seat at the European level as well. In addition, the fact that climate is now one of Iceland's main interests, either for economic or for safety. It is unlikely that there will be a success in climate in the absence of international cooperation and the importance of searching for answers to how Iceland can deal with climate in international cooperation. However, the fact is that in the world of international civilizations, international corporations have grown so fast that their efforts and influence threaten many countries, large and small. The European Union has extended beyond the international community to right nationalities to global corporate conglomerates. Do any of you ever think that Iceland and I would have enough money to make all these treaties on our own? Can anyone think of that? No, of course not. As a result, we were engaged in a successful European armada. It is clear that the world scene is changing rapidly, and new subjects are calling for Iceland to take a new step forward in international cooperation after a period of over 25 years. Since the end of World War II, there has never been so much time between important new steps in Iceland's cooperation with other countries. Two main roads are good for Iceland at this crossroad. One is mainly based on two-way partnerships and treaties. The other is a continuation of the international metropolis that we now possess in the European Union, the Atlantic Alliance, and the Northern Council. The first option would likely lead to a more established relationship with Britain and the United States, and they would be followed up in the construction of two - sided vacation agreements, as I think it would be the highest. Secretary of State wants it. They are at all times much weaker and more extensive than the legislation that shapes Europe's inner market. If that was to be the case, leaving the inner market like the British would be the huge step that would lead to a fundamental change. Experience has made it clear that small countries are weaker in two - sided cooperation than international cooperation. That's exactly what the Icesave dispute is. Without EU regulations and the EFTA Court, the British and the Dutch would have had a better place in Iceland if Iceland had been alone and not with EFTA Court and European legislation. The second option is to step forward on the basis of the additional EU Member States, which can be said to include the internal market and the participation in Schengen, to be fully involved with a seat at the table and its effect. It would be less of a step than that taken in 1994 to the internal market by the European Economic Area Convention. We feel that there is no doubt that the second option will be better to defend and trust in Icelandic interests. First and last, we're going to contribute to the informed discussion, that the nation will be allowed to make the decision for the next step, not for politicians alone, but for the people to decide if they want to continue their discussion with the European Union. And if the nation says yes, they will eventually also take sides on a discussion with the European Union. To that--and I repeat: To that no one should be afraid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u80	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you. A senator for making this suggestion. She's got a heading party out there. A candidate and policy of the company is shameless to walk in the European Union, no less. There's something wrong. Senators must be recognized. Now it's a complete cypress. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator sees any defect in the European Union. I had a bad one once. A senator of the party. At that time, a senator was a vacation shopkeeper, struggling for freedom in business. If we walk in the European Union, we will lose our freedom of business, no less. We're in a hurry. We know exactly what to do. A senator well knows the difference between our business policy and the European Union. Hv. A senator knows that our tax freedom is about 90% while it is about 20% or 27% in the European Union. We know what the consequences would be if we walked in here and here we were going to go up to customs. We also know, more dignified President, that we have been successful in the holiday business business business, both with EFTA and two sided, but we would no longer have the freedom of the contract if we entered. I'm asking if it's not gonna get in the way. A senator when she recommends that we join the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u81	A respectable president. History shows, last of all, when we recorded 80% of the EU's internal market, that it strengthened us as a sovereign nation, and especially strengthened our business life, our business, our businesses in the country. I know it's the highest. Secretary of State knows of the surveys that have taken place in the workplace. All of our job life supports our involvement in the European Economic Area, definitely. I remember the time when the highest squad. A minister said: We don't have to go to the European Union to cancel customs, we just do it ourselves. We'll do it ourselves. This has happened only to a very limited degree. What's it like? Have we made good use of the freedom we now have? No, I'd like to reiterate that the opportunities we've been given through business, economic relationships, through the European Union have strengthened us on every occasion. Besides, I look at the big picture, not only from economic perspectives but also from cultural, social, and, above all, from a climate-based perspective, that is related directly to economic interests as to other interests. There, I see many and a lot of opportunities. I'd like to say, "Why is this large old party still the largest, 20%, or right over it, so afraid of trusting the people to take this step?" Why? As far as I can remember, I'm with the highest. Ministers and others would say yes, yes, that the people would have their opinion on the subject of conversation. What Has Changed? Who are the crowds?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u82	A respectable president. Hv. A senator comes here for every inquiry class and complains that ministers won't answer questions. I asked why. A senator simple questions, very simple questions: It does not get in the way of trouble. A senator to defuse the freedom of the Icelanders we've been fighting for in hundreds of years? Hv. A senator well knows that if we join the union, we no longer have business freedom. It's as simple as that. Hv. A senator shall never come up here and tell you that ministers will not answer questions if any. A senator cannot answer that simple question. Hv. One senator said that the Independence Party had said: "We can stop customs. " We did. That's why 90% of tax freedom is here compared to 27% in the European Union. Therefore, customs would rise here on various products if we walked in and cut off the freedom of our Icelanders'business, because that's what we do if we join the European Union. [[The president calls.]] The answer is obvious. A senator doesn't get in the way of anything. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u83	A respectable president. What is this day of judgment here? Have there been so many resonant bombs that they use halberries as a lie? History has shown us that whenever we have a full share in international cooperation, Iceland's interests are better paid, as is economic tax freedom or what it is. It's the highest. Secretary of State to say so here--with this presentation is he really revealing himself with what he's been having a lot of trouble with--and expressing great doubts about the EEA Convention? Is he doing it? Did we give up business freedom by being members of the EEA? No, we didn't. [[Up front.]] No, we have a seat at the table, and that's been demonstrated. It's the highest. Minister to say that countries like Denmark, Sweden, the small state of Malta, Luxembourg, have no freedom of business because they're inside the relationship? [[The president calls.]] What is this nonsense? [[Up front.]] Their interest is better spent in the fleet of large parties and in the combined numbers of other parties, and it has also proved true, including itself. When we were in trouble with the British and the Dutch because of Icesave, our cooperation with other countries provided greater security for Icelandic citizens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her history. Still, it sneaks at me. A senator believes that she has a bit of a difficult cause to defend here. It even appeared. in the middle of the day. A senator chooses to play a number of sweeping games. One generalization is this: The age of the world is black/white in that it is only possible to be a member of a multinational or two - sided team. Things aren't quite that simple, Mr. President. The generality is that it balances all the different partnerships we have, I mention, for example. Atlantic Alliance, National Council, etc. It's different. There are different viewpoints, and this is the case for different reasons. Being a member of the European Union has profound consequences. Is it not best to remember the discussion of the third energy package, which is in the opinion of the government experts and officials, and then we're talking about parties in this European partnership, get at least one person. An indirect effect on the practicality and provision of Icelandic energy resources. Has a what? A senator does not worry that there would be little protection for us and our resources if we became members of this relationship? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u85	A respectable president. Each step we have taken in international cooperation has been to strengthen the sovereignty. That's how we've used our sovereignty. We decided to use our sovereignty in 1949 by becoming a member of NATO. We decided to use our sovereign powers to strengthen us on economic, social, and cultural grounds by being a member of the EFTA and then the EEA Convention and the Northern Community, as I have said. International communication has been successful in Iceland. I remember last year, or it was in the meeting, when we were discussing the third energy package that it was spread, especially by the Central Party and by some members of the Independence Party, that the third energy package was a threat to the sovereignty. Now, a third pack of energy has been in effect for some time, and I don't know that the sovereignty has gone away. Don't let me do that. The proposal we discuss here is very moderate. In fact, I'm not surprised at this persecution that is, for example, really. dose should be administered at the highest level. Minister of State not to discuss the proposal as such, what we are doing there. We're talking about a parapolitic committee arranged to acquire information, a report that allows the nation to decide whether to continue our discussion. There are some great Europeans who are absolutely crazy at us because we should be suggesting it. This is a careful step toward ensuring the participation of the nation. This is a cautionary step toward trusting the nation. It is completely unknown to me why those who often speak of the sovereignty, often speaking of national independence, do not trust the people themselves to take the next steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u86	Madam President. I allowed myself to tell you before I thought it was easy. A senator realized that she has a bit of a difficult cause to defend. Hv. A senator has, for example, an e.g. nothing answers my question about adjusting to an external shock. When I talk here about the risks of massive unemployment, when this adjustment cannot be made, but the result would be a lot of unemployment. A senator for changing contact with the labour market party. Then I have to say that there is an amazing reminder that there is a reference to the Icesave debate in the report with a suggestion. Senator. As far as I can remember, certain prominent and prominent men of her party wanted to stand with the British and the Dutch against Icelandic interests in the Icesave debate, and some of them became naturally known for that. To represent an organization that bought advertisements with some shark to try to scare the nation into confessing to these illegal Icesave standards. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm surprised to hear it. A senator should not only mention it in his own report but also mention it in his own talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u87	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u88	A respectable president. Just a little bit of trouble. A senator will need me again and again. I reiterate that one of the main arguments for the crown was that a dollar might be dropped or that it would prevent unemployment. That's what happened. A senator said earlier. Now, however, we both have inflation, higher than anywhere else because of the virus, and we also have the greatest unemployment in the nation's history. All right. We fully understand that it is primarily because of tourism, but this is relatively more unemployment than other countries have gone through the virus on their own. So this isn't going to work out the sound and picture. There is no unemployment on this scale. Whether you like it or not, it was a worldwide partnership, including a global one. Through the EFTA Court and our membership, which led to our advantage in favour of Icesave bonds. It was on the basis of international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] A fine example is that it is better for us to be in a group of nations than to be alone, e.g. great nations, such as the British and the Dutch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u89	A respectable president. Many questions arise when reading this synonym arrangement, especially because it is somewhat ambiguous when it comes to rationalizing that we should re-enact debates about involvement in the European Union. Actually, the first question that woke up in my room was, "Why is this council muffled proposal here? " Councilmen restoration so late, in the last days of this terms? Because it's like a duck. A shipman knows that a body of council proposals like this about himself at the end of the election. I feel, however, the question that may be obvious to Iceland's main interest when it comes to discussion with the European Union, and we're all out of experience, and I'd like to ask you a question. A senator's objective of the contract was to make new contact with the European Union in the marine future, since not one word on the seabed is found in the Parliament's arrangement, not one word. Then I also run my eyes to a reference to the Icesave debate, multi-blessed. I wasn't at a council when it was considered, but I remember no better than a man who walked by human hand here at the council, except for a few members of Congress, to negotiate with the British and the Dutch. It claims that without the regulations of the European Union and the EFTA Court, the British and the Dutch would have done better for Iceland. I would like to have just an explanation for this statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u90	A respectable president. The approach of members of the Central Party and the Independence Party to this proposal is somewhat thought - provoking - because of the problem. paritaprevir Dr. Andersen says that the seabed is not clearly mentioned and is not being done - exactly what the proposal involves, that the prime minister of a ship has a consultation with a body of councils, which is about to direct preparatory work in cooperation with a unique Ministry. In effect, the suggestion is that we must face up to the need for more discussions and more instruction. Was that not being handled sufficiently well at the time? You can talk and argue if it's been done. We are, in effect, taking steps in this matter, pushing the case so that the nation can eventually influence and decide whether they will, on the basis of the preparatory work that all classes have come up as the Ministry, the Ministry as well as others, and on the basis of the decision whether it is right to continue the meeting with the European Union. I still haven't got answers to what's so dangerous about it. I notice, however, that the ocean surface is often used to scare people to obedience and opposition to the European Union. It was often said: "Well, all the bad foreigners will come and hunt for our jurisdiction. " There's just nothing that looks like it's gonna be. According to European Union regulations on relative stability, it is not within the picture because no foreign ships have been here in Iceland for decades and that is what matters. I wondered, " Why is it always trying to get some delusion into people's mind that it will be in some other way? ' Why is that? I'll come to the second answer later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u91	A respectable president. I just had a simple question to ask. A senator of whom she felt should be the contract objective of Iceland's marine outlets in the European Union. As mentioned in this article, we are covered by experience in the Member States and the European Union. We completed negotiations of many of the chapters behind such discussions. But it's always the chapter that counts, really the only chapter, and it's about the use of Iceland's natural resources, the water main, so we're completely out of experience. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator must have some ideas on what the contract aims of Iceland should be in it and should present it to the council for discussion here on this synopsis proposal. I then reiterate my question on how this claim can stand that Icesave debate has been saved by the European Union. I've never heard anything like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u92	A respectable president. Only to Icesave. It is natural to understand the rules of the EFTA Court and the rules there were, there were European rules. They were the basis for Iceland's success. It's as simple as that. [[Up front.]] Yes, but on the basis of their rules, we won the case. We won the case on the basis of the rules, international rules. That's the way it is. It's only about the water main. My opinion is that, and I think it's very realistic that we can have the water just as it is today. It is also ideal for the European Union to look to Iceland about the management of fishing. So there is a very high probability that Iceland can maintain its marine systems. We know exactly what to fix there. There is a discussion on another subject, such as the resource costs and temporary contracts, but on the basis of the Icelandic marine export system, I put high hopes in it, and I'm optimistic about how we can get a very good and ideal solution that will work out exactly the interests of Iceland when it comes to fishing. Then the agriculture is left and there is a huge opportunity for Icelandic farmers and Icelandic consumers. It may be that the intermediate population will not be as happy, but to Icelandic farmers, consumers and climates, there is a huge opportunity to have business discussions with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u93	A respectable president. I'll take it back and thank you for this discussion. I'm happy for her, and she shows that we can discuss these matters whenever we want, and nothing stands in the way of it. However, it has to be said about the exchange we had here, since I was neither more nor less accused of being truthful, that there was no short argument, and I didn't make any mistake, that it seems that either wants a moment. A senator, the first apostle, does not answer the question that I have already asked. A senator twice, whether or not it will be overwhelmed. A senator that we're going to decommission our freedom of business, or that's to be discussed by a council and a group of debates. A member of the European Union is so small that people don't know that if we walk in the European Union, we'll just get out of business freedom. We're going to the union. When the British left the European Union, they had the freedom to negotiate with other nations. They did not have that freedom before. They had not had it for decades, not since they were in the European Union. Talk about international institutions. The British were nothing at the International Business Institute when they were in the European Union, they weren't there. We're there. Hv. According to one U.S. senator, it is so important to be in a multinational work but the European Union has nothing to do with it. If we walked in the European Union, we would no longer have a seat at the International Business Institute because we were free of business. It is written on behalf of the European Union by officials of Brussels. It is clear what the difference is between Iceland's business policy and the European Union. We have 90% of tax freedom on our toll line while it's 27% in the European Union. That means if we enter, customs will rise on these toll lines, which are now tax freedoms on us, but not in the European Union. In addition, it was shown during the meeting, and it has been shown at the council that if we were involved in the first plan of the customs government, and this is shown in the report Forward march, so I'll direct it, with permission of the president: ▪... assumed that the cost of the recording of new customs would be up to 30 million. Euro. It was then assumed that on the part of the EU a significant increase in staff was expected at the current cost - if we walked in. In contrast, at that time 168 people were active in the ministry - i.e. correspondent in Iceland - 430 people in Luxembourg, 495 people were employed by the customs authorities in Malta. It's all there is to it. I think it would be incredibly reasonable of what. Congress members who seriously suggest that we Icelanders decommission our business freedom to study these matters. Seems to me, a respectable president, at least. Councilmen here present at the National Assembly of Iceland, offering proposals that we should take away our freedom of business, that we Icelanders have not studied this matter. At least the answer is "woe. " A senator, who is the first transporterman, does not wonder how she feels about it. One of the many advantages of the EEA Convention is that we can continue to maintain our business freedom. And because of what? A senator says that being in a multinational organization is so important. A senator proposes that we remove EFTA, for that is what we do if we enter the European Union. EFTA is a free trade organization, and we can no longer stay there if we walk in the European Union and give up our business freedom to officials of Brussels. It was quite before, a respectable president, and it says in Congress that if we had walked in, it was before the Independence Party went into the minimizing tolls. A senator called after and has been done, would be particularly uncomfortable with the industry and the seabed because tolls would rise in resources. It was a long time before this heavy toll fold was taken. And you're absolutely right. A senator, though. A senator did not mention that the Independence Party was responsible because we in the Independence Party were attracted to a vacation store. Hv. A senator named the seabed and is quite convinced that we will achieve a favorable deal. We would always need to be members of the EU's common fishing policy. And why is it called together? Because it's common. At that time, the authority of the fishing business goes to Brussels. Hv. A senator says there's been nothing here. The problem is, and we made sure when we walked in the EEA that foreign people can't buy their way into the seabed, but we could never stand up for it if we walked in the EU. If they examine the experience of the British, they will regret these decades how much they hunt for their own jurisdiction. Britain's media claims that this is 25%. One thing is certain that when they tried to walk out, the European Commission required that the arrangement be unchanged as far as the European Union could still provide in British jurisdiction. Then there's a debate about the contract that lays the basis, whether they can get out of it or not. That was a requirement for the European Union. A common fishing policy is a common fishing policy because it is shared. So there is the real possibility that we would be taking away not only our freedom of business but also our common fishing policy. Of course, there are many other factors that made us in a position far worse than we are now if we are walking in the European Union. Hv. A senator brings up the climate issue. Wait, what is exactly what keeps us from making all the plans and going into all the climates we want because we're not in the European Union? Is there anything that forbids us to do what we want in the climate? No, it's up to us. So we take it by ourselves and the Icelandic voters choose classes, including On the basis of their policies and opinions on climate. That we are strengthening our defenses and trusting our defenses by joining the European Union is a argument that doesn't hold back, none. We are not just members of NATO because of that. A senator speaks down two-sided cooperation, we have a two-sided defense agreement with the United States. I hope so. Let a senator not be opposed to him yet. Now that the British are leaving, there are less than 20% of the military might of the Atlantic Community in the European Union, less than 20%, and there is no evidence that if we walked in there, we would be able to strengthen our defenses. If we look at how we have conducted, how we have benefited from the largest EU countries on average - of course, there are always some misleading discussions here because there are very different places in the European Union, that vary, and when people talk about euro and European interest, there is something that we can do more about it - there is no evidence that we could achieve a better economic outcome. A respectable president. I believe the conclusion is that those who make this suggestion fail to understand what it means to be at the EU customs union. I think there's something we must face. I encourage everyone to talk as much as they can about the European Union, and I think it would be good if it were. A senator would first study these matters because there has been no secret anywhere what it means to be in the EU customs union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u94	A respectable president. Only because of common fishing policy. We should keep in mind that each EU Member State with a history of fishing has its own fishing legislation. Why doesn't the Minister mention it? Because it is not suitable for the test. The common fishing policy, what's it going on? Mainly self-sustaining. Of course, sustainability is not the main concern of the minister of the Independence Party, of course not. Every country has its own fishing law. And if we look at what we see, history, the numbers, we're going to get a very favorable deal. That's what this is all about. My question to the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is this: What is he afraid of taking this step, the careful step to promote informed discussions in society, to teach one another, to reason in the community, and then to allow the nation, on that basis, and to prepare for it, to decide whether to proceed? Or maybe a minister himself wants to pull the magazine from here and put it in a drawer and say, "I'm gonna make this decision. I'm gonna decide this for the nation, because I'm the only one who knows. I'm not gonna trust you guys. I'm the only one who knows. I'm just talking about this step. Do the secretary of the nation trust to decide whether to continue with the matter of membership? That's the first question. Another question. I must ask the highest. Minister to that, given the way he speaks of the European Union, he was, for example, a member of the European Union. versus intercommunicate with the European Union when it came to vaccinations and the gathering of vaccines? [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. A Minister completely against that? The basis for his presentation here can only be concluded that he did not wish to be involved with the European Union in the process of vaccination.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u95	A respectable president. Hv. At any rate, a senator works together to share a common fishing policy. Hv. A senator mistakenly claims that I did not focus on the sustainability of my political bitch, which I always did. On the contrary, a senator speaks against a better judgment. I don't know that anyone would want to adopt the common marine policy in the European Union. On the other hand, very many colleagues have asked me how we have succeeded in achieving the success we have achieved in fishing. It is taken, and we have it under our control. Because of what? A senator mentioned that we don't have to worry about foreigners, we know that. And people may conclude that we should open up in foreign investments on the fishing road. Then we'll just do it, but we'd have to have it open completely if we were in the European Union. I miss a little of that. A senator would not answer how she felt about removing her freedom of business and moving it to Brussels. But maybe one day it'll come to an answer. I was asked if I trust the nation. I trust the nation to do all the good things I do, but I am opposed to the fact that we are walking in the European Union. I've always been, and I'm not going to do anything in my power to take some step in that direction. I'm just not gonna do it. Regarding absolutely unrelated matters, whether it was our best to participate in the vaccine trade work at the European Union, however, there is still a problem. A senator a little mention of a snare in a man's house, because the conduct of the European Union and, what I've stressed, the violation of the EEA Treaty was below all the caves. I think if we were to mention reasons why we should leave this alliance alone, this would be it. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator also says that I do not want to contribute to a upbuilding discussion. [[The president calls.]] I've been publishing reports with facts of a vacation store, about the EEA, to promote a more upbuilding conversation, but clearly. Clearly, a senator has not studied these reports. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u96	A respectable president. Because it's the highest. Minister's talking about customs contracts, vacation contracts, et cetera. Then, for example, it does. EFTA contracts, too, are the highest level. Minister knows, including. with Iceland's involvement. The EU will do the same for its Member States. The EU makes free trade agreements with other countries, just as it is said. It's quite clear, or I think it's pretty clear, and then it's gonna be the best. Minister to correct me, to the highest picture. A minister draws up is more like a more convenient route to Britain. We're small relative to the British. Only to the highest. Minister wants us to be British poodles, as he sometimes talks. The success of the small countries is clear, and their interests are better spent in a united state. I mentioned in my speech to form cross contracts and how we would have been able to manage big companies, telephone companies, and the interests of consumers outside the European Union's inner market. This is an example of how Iceland is able to cope with the European Union. That is true in many ways. A respectable president. I'm going to celebrate -- I'm going to. The minister of state will have to correct me, but I intend to allow myself to understand him so that he is not opposed to the proposal, allowing the nation to make the next step. I'm going to take it from this discussion and leave out all the acting skills and rhythms. But I understand the highest. A minister like that, and then he must correct me, that he trusted the nation to take this step and have the opportunity to take this step and then on his own, to determine if it is right to continue our discussion with the European Union. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u97	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has now made world records, or at best, misunderstandings, by interpreting my words in this way. [[Up front.]] I really trust the nation, and we vote in the elections where we offer votes. I hope so. A senator will have learned more about what it means to be in the EU and what it means to be in EFTA. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should get some other source on his cell phone when she inquires about these matters. What does it mean to be in EFTA? Hv. A senator said: "They're making deals for us. We're not done with our freedom of business. We can make all the contracts we want. Why does it keep you small? Senator that we have the Hoyvík deal? Did EFTA Hoyvík do the deal? Why does it keep you small? A senator we've made a deal with China? EFTA made a deal with China for us? No, because we have free business. When the EFTA countries want to negotiate, they have their own business freedom. That's why we're in the World Business Organization. If we went to the EU, we would no longer be in that multinational institution because of it. A senator puts such emphasis on this. And it is a punishment, a respected president, and it shows how serious the situation is when a head of a one-way policy group is being taken in the EU, do not know these matters. It's just a lot more serious than it sounds, much more serious. Hv. A senator can live by suggesting that we walk in the EU. I'll do everything I can to stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u98	Will you support this proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u99	I'm certainly not going to support that suggestion. I don't know how. A senator could possibly interpret that. But the main point is that this discussion was exposed. A member of the Parliament, the chairman of the woodcuttery, does not realize that if we walk in the European Union, we will cancel our freedom of business. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u100	A respectable president. Then, in part, from 2009 on, but I did not have the opportunity to discuss comparable matters, the Congress proposal for Iceland's talks on involvement in the European Union. But it's right to keep it in order that even if I missed the first round of this, I wasn't calling out for the second one. I do not cry that the matter has come here to the council and that the body of Congress will take a stand on this motion of restoration. This interpretation proposal, in fact, arrives during the last days of the season and appears to have some intention of having an effect on the terms of this election period. There's some kind of council creation that I haven't had time to dedicate to myself. That is the purpose of this suggestion. There are some things in this. The reasons presented here for the need to re-start Memberal discussions with the European Union can be divided into three or perhaps four. First, it is the currency that is considered to be a very important project and was discussed in a special assembly case above, on the binding of the crown to the euro. I'm not going to talk about it in particular. However, there are other reasons for global cooperation in general and climate, and finally, for example. The Icezave case I'm going to have to briefly cover at the end. Interestingly, however, there is no discussion of sea issue in this synoptic arrangement. Hv. The candidate for the proposal has mentioned that it is the very role of the committee to address this subject, if it is accepted, to discuss it. However, the chairman of the Environment expressed his view, which I must say, must be new stories and new news or news for those who observe it, that it is her religion and that the European Union will agree with all the demands of the marine outposts and will look forward to our fine fishing system with envy and even adopt it. That's how I left her words against me in the first place. Of course, there is good reason for the European Union to look envyfully at the Icelandic fishing system. But there's probably more news for me, if the European Union is not going to stick to the common marine fishing policy, it's going to let Iceland lead the way into that environment. I don't have much faith in that, to be honest. Here it is estimated that Iceland's entrance into the European Union is just another step and a normal step in the increase in international cooperation adopted by Icelanders over the last few years and for years. Iceland, as you know, is the founder of NATO, involved in EFTA, into the European Council, and so forth, a variety of international cooperations. Here it is showing that the next normal step for Iceland is entering the European Union. I must say, of course, that international cooperation is in many ways. Governments can share in extensive cooperation or close cooperation, perhaps to certain factors, and this cooperation is indiscriminate and burdeny. Some even include some sort of deed of sovereignty in more narrow areas than is limited. This need to be kept in mind that the EU is a very broad partnership over almost all the problems involved in the general administration of countries involved in the Community. The EU is a centrally controlled state, not an international community, as is the standard of international cooperation. The EU is a centrally controlled state and involved in this includes the complete expansion of the sovereignty in certain aspects. In fact, it is the European Court of Justice that makes judgments that the Court himself considers to be binding to Member States. However, the European Union's member countries have increasingly pointed out that the Court cannot take away the sovereignty that the Court has tried to achieve in recent years to a greater degree. This is a fundamental difference between the European Union and the traditional international community, this vast hall of sovereignty. Hv. A senator and a spokesman answered the case, and a messenger answered, thought I, out, and south my question about how men in the woodland could interpret it as if the Icesave quarrel was solved by the European Union itself. I can't remember any better than the Icesave dispute created by the European Union itself. It sprang up from the European Union itself, if not through the implementation of EU rules which can be debated as to whether it was a good step, a positive step in itself for Iceland or not, at the latest, with the European Commission's National Institute of Observation, EFTA, on the hands of Iceland. It was the Agency itself, ESA, who sullied Iceland to pay for the requirements that were then illegal and lawless, the lawless demands of the European Union. It is claimed in the synopsis of the European Union's Environment Action Programme, that experience has unequivocally demonstrated that small countries are weaker in two-way cooperation than international cooperation and the Icesave issue, without the rule of the European Union and the EFTA Court, the British and the Dutch would have had a better place in Iceland. This article asserts this point. Me and the Icelanders would have been just fine if the EFTA Agency and one of the EU institutions had not appealed to Iceland. Then the Icelanders would have done just fine. This claim is quite amiss to my opinion and to an unbecoming political party here at a council that likes to be taken seriously in such a big matter as the national sovereignty of Iceland, such as this case, Icesave, did and still does, and has a number of exemplary influence that humans should have in mind. I would also like to mention that the European Union and the EFTA, ESA, were in charge of the country for a few years in order to force the European public to take responsibility for debts that the public was not responsible for. I have little regard for such a rule, and less I believe that this principle serves the interests of a small people who want to be declared sovereign. I make comments to this reference. Finally, I'd like to make a serious comment to the reasons presented in this case, that these are the climate issues that are so urgent that Iceland will start negotiations with the EU to end Iceland's intake in the EU. The climate. Unfortunately, Iceland has introduced all too much of the EU's rules already, I just keep everybody on climate, and has agreed on Norway on the other hand and on the European Union's journey to climate and although Iceland has nothing to do with it because Iceland has a special position in climate. Iceland is not an environmental wasteland for greenhouse gas emissions as it is for the European Union. We have nothing to do with the European Union and to agree with it on these issues, either through the EEA Convention, and beyond that, there is reason to enter the European Union, at the mouth of the lion, completely, on these grounds, on the climate issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u101	A respectable president. Well, I'm not going to take a special word out of it. This is where we moved here. A senator with a very clear number that made her viewpoint very clear. There's only one thing I had to wear about Icesave. Hv. A senator said something about the way it was the European Union that started with the Icesave debate, something like that. Then the question may be raised as a result: Was it the European Union that founded the Icesave accounts?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u102	A respectable president. No, of course it wasn't the European Union that founded the so-called Icesave accounts, i.e. These accounts are private companies, Icelandic financial companies, in the European Union. But when the bank hit and the banks went upside down, people know all the history, then it was the European Union and EFTA, the SEC, which appealed the case to Iceland to promote the public's responsibility in Iceland at the debts of these private companies, totally absurd. Of course, some would say, but I'm not going to do it: Well, we'd already introduced a rule of the European Union. That principle enabled these Icelandic companies to start banks in the European Union. I know, and, as a matter of fact, it can't be said that maybe an Icelandic company could have done that even if Iceland hadn't been with the EEA deal, in agreement with the European Union. Icelandic banks might have founded bank accounts in Britain and in the Netherlands, although Iceland might not have been in EEA, it might well have been. There are all kinds of international financial institutions with branch offices in Europe that come beyond Iceland, which do not say through the EEA Convention. I'm not going to argue with it, and I'm not going to argue that it's bad in itself that Iceland has the best rules on financial markets and countries around us and countries that we have the most business with, just normal rules. However, the rules also need to take into account Iceland's special interests, special situations that may be present in Iceland, and that is often difficult for us. Of course, the European Union is not responsible for the bank accounts, but it is responsible for the statement and requirement. The claim was lawless on the part of this European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u103	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator to see that the end was a success in the process of this dispute, and I agree with it too. A senator said that it was illegal for the Icelandic public to be at the expense of that adventure. However, it cannot be denied that the Icelandic state had a commitment to these accounts and had made a commitment to them by means of a registration arrangement. And in spite of repeated requests, Icelandic officials and the presidents of the Lands Bank had refused to place these accounts in their accounts by registering them in the right country. Also, it cannot be denied that shortly before the fall of the Land Bank, the current Icelandic financial minister had assured his colleagues in Britain that Iceland would take full responsibility for these accounts. Perhaps European countries thought that they had some reason to believe that the Icelandic State would accept these wild responsibilities. However, the question really arises: When the then financial minister, who was actually the financial minister of the Independence Party, assures the English coal that the Icelanders are carrying these responsibilities, was there nothing to do with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u104	A respectable president. The Icelandic state had made no obligation to take full responsibility for these bank accounts abroad. The European Union's policies on deposit insurance had been adopted by the Icelandic State. He was expelled exactly as a formula. He was just not fat enough, like other comparable funds throughout Europe, and the state had never committed itself to filling in the required way. Icelandic taxpayers, the state. It was right from the very beginning how it was. The requirement for something other than the fact that this fund was on its own under those commitments was just completely lawless. This European Union brought the matter up with ESAs, but thankfully, there are some cases of good judgment even when they are scheduled outside Iceland. It was obvious that they had no legal requirements. The claim that Icesave controversy was solved by the European Union's regulations is totally out of the air. Then the European Union bites its head off the shame of these days and comes to mind, because people couldn't fill up the deposit insurance budget in their time, Iceland or other countries, to make a demand for it on all the countries we have to bring in - that is, we're also going to have to bring it in Iceland - to raise the money that is supposed to be in the bank deposit and government insurance that says all financial institutions in this country. I say no to that. Thank you, same as you. Whether we're outside or in the European Union, I'll say no to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u105	A respectable president. I want, like the rest of us. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers, thank you for this discussion. It is always fun to participate in such a large and extensive discussion, as is the discussion of the European Union. I am amazed, though, that this matter is being planned now when we have many other things to think about in our society and that we have to make considerable use of our energy to cope with epidemics and rebuild our economic and professional life and society as a whole. But is that why it is first on the program? Is there all the information disorder around the Covid epidemic and there's a lot to be done here; a pandemic, volcanic detoxification, and something else, just why this situation is happening right now, and maybe under cover of night? Is it not true that the restoration is not going to make this discussion sooner? Where have they been for the entire season of this discussion? Then they bring her now that no room is exactly for her, that I think. We will see how the vaccine treats have worked out. There's been a lot of things going on around it, Bgret, and more. And now we've just been forbidden to buy cocoa. True, they do not want to admit it. Rather, they say that it was the manufacturer's decision to make. They admitted that they were a custody nation, that they had strict rules about what was good for us, and therefore they could not sell cocoa here. This is the exact time it is set aside for setting this matter on schedule. But we just celebrate and accept the discussion, and we don't wave about it. That's pretty clear. But I think this is a very wrong time to discuss the European Union, because what we need today, Icelandic nation, industry, Icelandic society, is simplifying our regulations and reducing the booth. We have such a journey, but much better if it's enough. So it is not right to start creating some huge, complex baloney with a government system on whether and how we should continue our talks, with a lot of council and specialists so that there are now enough committees and officials, and the people who are going to get work on this to possibly enter some even bigger booth where we have to bear everything under somebody else, and increase the number of government officials and government officials to remember. That's not what we need. We need to focus on simplifying our rule. We need to be more careful when we bring in the rule we're on the EEA deal. We need to work at simplifying our system and being more efficient and guarding our interests. We're in a lot of trouble with it today, and let's not start making it worse on the black side, just not at all. A lot was discussed, and the preceding discussion was about currency, housing, housing costs, and so forth. I think that restoration should take a closer look when it comes to high prices. Resurrected in the city of Reykjavík, where there is a shortage of property, huge deposit, solidification, and everything done to raise housing costs, a return to the bottom, real estate, and one at the highest level. I think we could achieve tremendous success just by fixing in various places here before jumping on some magic solutions from Europe. Although we are not in the European Union, we have been successful in housing. We have canceled credit records, so the number of loans has become enormously competitive. It's got a drop in the muscles. People can reimburse themselves. It may determine whether a loan is inflatable or inaccessible. We have also had responsible financial management and have achieved tremendous economic success, thus reducing interest rates. It has been stable, inflation has been low, all without EU assistance. It always sounds like this, going into a conversation to see what we get, to evaluate interest, to look in the package, as is often said. We have seen the exact cost of looking in the package, as when the talks began in 2009. Then the European Union immediately began to say that looking in the package meant that we would need to install the contract in order to see what was in the package. We know exactly what it is. We saw the consequences immediately. So it's just that there's a lot more than just looking in the package and seeing what's available. If we look in the package, we will have one foot and more in the European Union. The European Union will immediately influence our priorities in financial terms and priorities. It's just that way. I say, let's be careful, let's take advantage of our independence. Let us use our energy to use the opportunities we have, to reduce our own levels and to be successful with our resources, to succeed in our land quality, to succeed in our human resources. We have shown in so many ways how well we can do and be successful, just by relying on ourselves but in cooperation with others. We have always talked about it and have shown it in so many ways that we need the freedom to search more than the Europeans. But we need freedom in order to be able to stand on our own and succeed on our own terms. That's extremely important. In recent years, we have shown that we can succeed in all areas that are believed to be important. It says: Since the end of the month, the General Assembly has not concluded a different way, and it is made a big part of the proposal to withdraw the application. I believe that if the General is not interested in canceling this proposal now that it has been concluded since it was taken care of, and then it does not want to take this matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u106	A respectable president. I have to admit, I thought it was kind of sweet to hear it. A senator complains that the proposal was first to appear now, almost sadder, but then followed by the classical speech of the lntruders that the right time for the future mouse and the future will never be. The proposal suggests that part of the reason why the situation has been presented today is the exact pandemic itself, for the situation we are in, e.g. Regarding our economic situation, we call for every opportunity to move ahead. I feel that way, so I think that the pandemic has helped us to see that one of the most precious lessons, both national and global, is that we are stronger together. In this country, we have all been involved, and the results have been based on solidarity. What has been the result of vaccination at home? Compatibility with the European Union. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, in regard to his verbal debate that the right time is not now and never: Is he convinced that if we had been there alone and not in partnership with Europe, we would be better vaccinated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u107	A respectable president. I'd like to state here that I wasn't complaining that the thing was coming right now; I wasn't talking about that it shouldn't be happening now, and I wasn't saying it was never the right time. I was just saying that I was amazed and wondering why we didn't trust him to bring it up until now. But I rejoiced. I'm always happy to talk about the European Union. I just thought of it as a pleasant discussion, and I noted that I would not compromise or complain about it, and I would welcome it. I was just wondering why the trip had not had the courage to bring the matter up earlier and whether they were under cover of night with this discussion. Regarding independence and the fact that they are making the issue right now, just because of the economic situation and because of the Covid, I'm just going to point out that depending on how this small independent nation, not in the European Union, got out of the economic crisis without the European Union's assistance. It is also noted worldwide that this little independent nation is achieving tremendous success in preventing disease and dealing with Covid. The only thing that's gone wrong is what we came to the European Union with, the vaccination process. It is possible to be wise afterward and say: Yes, probably we would have done better without being with the European Union. It was found that the vaccine did not have some huge sums of money, considering what we're losing every day. So, yes, I think we'd have done better ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers that are then opposed to the voices of the government minister in these matters, who has agreed to join Europe, was the only practical way to do so. Iceland's situation is now in detail, if we look at the northern countries, if we look at European countries, and Britain and the United States, which have gone their own way, the results are noticed as a result of this cooperation. I'd like to follow it along with this question to why. A senator: How does he feel that Iceland had been more effective in this regard than we do now? Hv. A senator defended his words in the position of housing in this country. I'd like to show him that it is now simply that the statistics and huge realities of Iceland and the young Icelanders are that it costs us more to acquire real estate than will happen elsewhere because of the growth environment we have lived in, which is a direct result of our currency. The Plunger charges are not a big answer there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-19-80.u109	A respectable president. That's exactly what I want to do. I want to start talking about the vaccine business. There, the European Union, under the regulation on vaccine export restrictions, has directly violated the EEA Convention. It just shows EU interests, they're always in interest and they just ignore little Iceland when it comes to their own interests, so it's clear. We've totally rejected this, this is a violation of the EEA Convention, this Regulation on Export Limits, to be absolutely clear. In the case of once again, it is also true that Icelandic youths buy more expensive homes in this country than in Europe because they have employment, they can afford it. It is now different from young people in many parts of the European Union. We have had tremendous success in reducing the cost of shopping. We've got a lot of options. Special tax-free savings can be inserted. We've taken out the credit cards. I've put up a case myself here, which has not ended, unfortunately, but I place a great deal of emphasis on finishes to get even better results, regarding the removal of stamps in general from house to house, because I think it's just one tax. It may well be that the growth is slightly higher here than in many parts of Europe, but it has declined because of good results, and we have created competition there. But we can achieve even better results and less expensive housing here in the capital area, with abduction of deposit costs, and a decrease in real estate bills, as well as a decrease in land savings, and I don't know what or what.
