ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u1	A respectable president. Here we are votes on legal regulations to set the border regulations, measures that might be necessary for a pathologist to reduce the risk of cross-border transmission and spread of infectious diseases. It would have been good for a community solidarity to agree that the necessary measures taken by a psychiatrist could be provided to support us. Clearly, it has been tempting for a number of people in our discussion today to make this matter a matter of something else, but it has to be. The key point is that we are as a community to achieve remarkable results in fighting the epidemic within the country and on the border, and now, with a dramatic increase in the progress of vaccinations. The fight has been successful, and I expect us to keep on following good wishes. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u2	Now the President doesn't know if he's got everyone down, but if they miss them on the rosary, they'll come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u3	A respectable president. It is very clear that we accept laws that violate the rules on the border so that we can increase our freedom here within the country. It's high and it's clear. No one here is going to sit by or even vote against this case for their popularity. I'm going to sit by this case. I expect to expect that I would have to reason with a lot of our supporters as a result. I'm going to do it because I have sworn an oath, a respectable president, to the Republic of Iceland's Constitution. I'm going to keep that oath. That's why I sit by, not in any sort of opportunism, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u4	Mr. President. People don't have much more to do with their problems, but when they act through a series of situations, it shows an intolerable dissatisfaction. V.E.G. Healthcare Minister has set up a protocol three weeks ago that did not prove to be improved, which is far beyond what it is going on now, despite the fact that the pandemic has been much less severe. It's the highest. A health minister who needs to explain how it feels that this time it takes less than three weeks ago, right now, when the pandemic is high. And that is because of her dissension with a member of the Independence Party. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u5	Mr. President. I think it was a bitch at the highest. Healthcare Minister when it is 25 minutes to five o'clock Thursday after the long day of the work of a number of people trying to clean up the bill. Minister. A number of guests would be hit by a storm. The welfare committee, complaining about the bill, even our mental health and health - care providers whom we have tried to follow in all things. But at this point, when hundreds of people are infected, 120 people are infected, the government does not trust to follow the advice of a psychiatrist and the highest level of health care. Health Minister shames the General in the middle of the night. It's so lame.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u6	A respectable president. The failing health minister in these materials continues. I had not planned to arrive at that time and was going to leave my words in a talk earlier. But I reiterate what I said then: The responsibility of this matter is, and will be absolutely exclusive to the government and to the government class. The Hantering of the Committee was simply in a way that the government groups did not even agree on the opinion presented here. It is a smaller part of the committee that is behind the committee's opinion. And here comes the highest. A health minister who seems to be unable to offer anything but a mistake here at 4:30 a.m. when the march has been completely responsible for it. Of course, the fact that the government groups do not even agree on this is reflected in that this is the way it is presented here. It's completely below all the caves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u7	Mr. President. I was disappointed with a talk that gave me the highest. A health minister earlier. But it can be, Mr. President, to the highest. A minister is pointing his words to the Independence Party, to the parties, just because no more things were reached. the welfare committee for the bill we're doing now? I prefer to interpret words of the highest. A minister describes her frustration with the Independence Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u8	A respectable president. I don't care whether it's 4:30 or some other time this day. It is important that we in this council hall finish this matter. Here we are taking to heart certain defenses, the government, and making it available to the Council, which I think the Council will be prepared to take, to provide additional defenses on the border temporarily while we are finishing what we are going through. Our situation is good in comparison with that of other countries. Our vaccination plans are good in comparison with other countries, so we are on the right track. But it is important that we make that decision today. We scouts have been supporting the process of improving under further conditions that we are making decisions here today. That's why I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u9	President. Yes, it is important to strengthen the defenses on the border so that we can live normal lives in this country. But if we base the defenses on the border on a law that will then be run in court and canceled because of children, e.g. not preemptive - it's a fact and has appeared here and appeared to the welfare committee, the Children's agent pointed to a point there - what happens then? Then some defenses have been built that will collapse when we need them instead of taking one more day, all ready for tomorrow and being able to listen to all those who came before the committee all day long. The order will not be ready until Monday anyway. We have the morning to strengthen this, to take these views into account, to listen to the changes we've been working on today's running to ensure that the defenses being built by these laws, defenses on the border so that we can live normal lives within the country, not just go down for the courts to follow. [[The president calls.]] That's the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u10	Mr. President. The media has requested a report from the highest level. Minister of Justice we consider very important and timely. For many years, the U.S. Marshal's analysis department has identified the risk of increasing the rise of organized crime in Iceland. Agents report lists a number of issues to be added to the police and to the police. We wish for this report request, at the point of the team, that the Minister of Justice knows what has been done or what has been done to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice plans to meet the diagnostic tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-22-84.u11	The president would like to say, though there are certain men on their own home, now that we have completed this anticipated meeting somewhere between a riot and a giant, as previously said, that it is his opinion that in general the difficult times we have gone through in the second year. I'd like to have a summary of the current situation and the response to the pandemic, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was close to half a hundred. Then I'd like to strike a different chord, starting today into the air of the Allied Youth Network. The site is designed for senior and high school students as well as for all others who are interested in learning about the activities of the Generals. A significant effort has been made in recent presentations of information and even for distinct groups on the work being done here. Aldulis's Youth site includes To find a dictionary, a description of the path of law-employers through the council - perhaps not exactly like the path of the bill we were doing here before - the history of the Alllium, labor, and tasks that can be applied and there are other fascinating and informative things. Then the president will finally want to use this upcoming opportunity to wish the entire council members, the staff of the Allied Parliaments, and the people of the country, with gratitude for their recent cooperation in winter.
