ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in air travel law, No. 60/1998, with subsequent changes, on the duties of pilots due to Covid-19. It's a bill that hasn't. Environmental and transport committees move. I'm going to read 1st par. Mostly up, but the bill is only in two branches but the directives in Article 1. is temporary. If there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland, and the public health requirement, the minister is allowed to state the temporary duties of the pilots/illists of the airfarers in order to ensure control of regulations as follows: a. Migration to determine if a passenger was due to have met for registration and has otherwise recognised the certificate of immunisation against Covid-19, the proof that Covid-19 infection is status, or proof of the negative results of a test against Covid-19 prior to boarding, as such obligations have been placed on the passenger basis of protection. b. Duty to withhold a passenger's transfer, he cannot issue a suitable certificate or confirmation. a-a team. c. Duty to take passengers back to their destination, he cannot present a valid certificate or confirmation. A team coming to the country. A maintenance room can lay a government fine on an individual or a law for violations against 1 mg. and Regulation established on the basis of 1 mg. The decision of government guilty should be strictly reported to the person involved. A pre-requisite guilty can be committed for fractures against 1 mg. and Regulation set on a 1 mg basis. Whether or not the defendants, his staff, or any other member of his territory will be proven guilty. The fines laid on the leg can learn from a hundred far away. K. ... to500you. K. ... foran extraordinary violation of every passenger. The budget is 30 days after the date of the decision. - I'm gonna skip the arts and other things that are common. The decision to exercise control may be made by the administration of a cabinet minister. If you have a law enforcement to direct your party on rights to charges. The decisions made by a U.S. O.A. to set up a government ticket are necessary after a hearing. We've got a hearing for the Minister to postpone a mission, but the ministers' decision is advising. A speech given to the general courts does not postpone an entry and does not depend on a prior complaint against a minister. - It's quite a general rule, though it's worth explaining. And go on: According to a U.S. Association agency to establish a administrative ticket under this law, five years have passed since behavior has been completed. Temporarily, when the Grouping Room informs members of the initial study of the alleged fracture. Refuse has the right effect on all involved. Active or large fractures against 1 mg. and Regulation established on the basis of 1 mg. for punishment based on 1.mg. 141st par. - There's a list of air travel laws. - The legal fine can be done according to Article II. section A general penal law for such a violation. This is a violation of the law, only a police investigation, with the exception of a D.C., please. The preliminary principle comes here in the rest, and it reads: THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENTS OF THE COURT 2.g. is short. It's just like this: ▪ This law already goes into effect. A general introduction in a report is to one and a half pages, Mr. President, and I'm going to do most of the words that explain the purpose of this law. The bill is presented with a reference to the condition currently existing due to Covid-19 and the pre-emptive measures already taken and for which to take action. At a meeting of the government on March 16, 2021, the Council of Justice was adopted to change the rules of border crossing regulations, No. 866/2017, so that there is no general ban on the unprovoked movements of the third member states across the outer borders does not include individuals with adequate vaccination certificates. The same Regulation also stipulates the obligation of tourists to provide proof of a negative PCR test on arrival. Changes in internal border monitoring are also expected in the light of the above changes. At the same time, 6. Regulation No. 161/2021, on transmissible and isolation and on the national borders of Iceland due to Covid-19, were modified to include all the vaccination and serological certificates provided in accordance with the WHO regulations for the International Vaccinations Programme, regardless of which states they are derived, provided that they meet otherwise the requirements for the provision of the Member States. Regulation No. 286/2021. Also specified in the same Regulation the same principles of vaccination as witnesses for vaccination with the vaccine recommended by the European Medicines Agency for the granting of the marketing authorisation and for the guidance of a specialist. The bill suggests that if there is a valid authority to be registered, which is intended for temporaryisation in order to ensure adequate improvement, so that a secretary can, if there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland, and public health requires, determine the temporary duties of aviation/sponsor of an aviation unit and see if a passenger has met the requirements for registration and has the required proof, which I have already made aware of who is. The provision of similar temporary regulations is now proposed as part of the bill for a new comprehensive framework of air travel, which is referred to in temporary forms for covering. 994, 586th case at current legislation. - I'll tell you, that's what's going on now. The Environment and Transport Committee has already received visitors on this matter. - If this bill becomes the law, then it is planned that the law will be removed from it by the Constitutional treatment of the bill. Then, according to general requirements. In 1st. is suggested for the provision of a provisional new arrangement that will be set up until December 31, 2022. In accordance with the regulations, a minister may be allowed if there is a risk of travel to and from Iceland, and the public health demands that the temporary duties of the pilots/employers in the Regulation are deemed necessary. I've already considered what these measures are and I'm not going to repeat it. However, it is important to say that the obligation to test the truthfulness of a witness or confirmation is not to be placed upon a pilot. It is important to have a prefile and to present a valid certificate before being boarded on an airplane. But the above study, i.e. To test the truth of diction or confirmation, the border will continue. Mr. President. It should be noted that according to 2 mg. 1st par. A current law on air travel can determine how much rules are set according to law in the law of outside the Icelandic domain. Is it to be expected that if there is a need for a means to be applied, its force also needs to reach a pilot with confirmed flight drivers outside Iceland. Of course, this decision must be made to other pilots than those with a home base. There are a few words in the report on fines, government fines, and so on. I'm not going to retrace that. These are fines that are known from other cases and that do not require an extension of my case here. I suggest that the bill, as it looks here, be put before you. Environment and transport committee on our first chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u2	Mr. President. Last night when it happened. The members of Parliament were preparing for this meeting. Congress leaders were informed at a meeting with the president just before one o'clock, when a meeting was arranged, that the matter should be planned, that a section of the bill should be taken into operation on the Environment and Transport Committee, should be planned, and preferably done only today. I want to ask you why. A senator: Why is there such a rush here? Why is that? And I want to ask you why. A senator whether I understand the facts correctly, that this is the case with taking the valid vaccination certificate outside the Schengen area. Finally, I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council whether a psychiatrist made a suggestion for this change or the change the bill is designed to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u3	Mr. President. Thanks for the inquiry. Why was the matter scheduled, how it happened, and in what way is the case of the presiding committee and the president? I assume that in the case of flying to the country, the first foreign machines are probably coming very soon to land. The bill is taking the preliminary rule on the new air travel laws, i.e. The bill that has not been handed over, moved here, and negotiated for temporary approval because we know that the large number of balloons, the new one, will not be satisfied with the rate at which it is desirable if we are going to open the country in this respect. That must explain why this is being taken on a schedule at a certain rate but exactly how it is done, beyond my field of work. The purpose of this is to validate and change the action criteria on the border that have already been permitted. People outside Schengen have been able to come here for so - called legitimate or urgent purposes, for work, for a sick relative, or for some sort of illness. Here it's just expanding -- or it's nothing, it's a big step -- it's being extended so that this value generally applies to people with the same kind of proof that those people have referred out. With a D.A., I don't sit in the government. I don't know about the best conversations. A health minister and a Dentist, but I know he should be suggested. I also know that the company has a right not to comply with all the proposals proposed by the psychiatrist, since it is not an infatuated relationship, to the highest level. A minister is only allowed to accept the recommendations directly provided by a pathologist.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u4	Mr. President. It is now that the virus is going all the way around the world, that is, that is, there are new strains, the vaccines are not 100%. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot agree that there is a reason to move slowly in these Critic times and whether it is not important that the committee involved with these actions in this council take time to review what is really going on. What is behind it, and why is it so urgent? And I want to pray. A senator arranges for a meeting of the Committee to be called a DCC to review the situation and give practical advice on how to behave in the Greek position we are in today. True, there was only one disease yesterday that was out of control. We have been in a good place, but that is not true of other countries. The British species, Brazilian species, and strains from Africa are difficult to work with and highly contagious. Is it the right time for us to go back to the border? Why don't we be a little more careful? I got it. I got it. Senators and wοuldn't. The environment and transport committees to review this matter very carefully and do not tear it through the council today with little discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u5	Mr. President. It is a challenge if we are unable to skim off the epidemic in the right way, in the right way, in the right way, before, whether it is tourism, other occupations, or ourselves. Then we're in trouble, certainly. In the countries around us, millions of people whom we could imagine are being vaccinated. So, of course, there are a lot of people, if we say the same thing, that's getting the same protection as we do at home. And I guess we'd be travelling to other countries if allowed there. Except, there's no vaccine 100% and there's never been one. I think we can be totally calm if the activity is 70, 80, 90%, as I understand it is in these cases. So I don't have a problem with the vaccines. On the other hand, a pilot is obliged to ensure that no one enters the aircraft that does not have these documents; however, these documents are authentic in the border. Much closer we can get, only by obliging everyone who comes here again. I'd like to repeat what I said, that these are two stages of disease prevention, one of which is the expert who watches and proposes, and then there's a minister, the government, who makes decisions. On the other hand, there is a minister of justice and a Dentist. By references to a committee, we are not rushing anything, on the contrary. This is not going to be done today, if anyone's thought of it, it's gonna be tough. A transport and environment committee will take the matter into account at their next meeting in order to begin with and then walk this in some step that I'm not aware of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u6	President. When I look at this bill for law and speculation, there are more questions that arise. Recently, it was decided that passengers who arrived here should present a so - called negative PCR test that they did not have Covid. V.E.G. A health minister was asked here about whether it fulfilled a general measure of moderate behavior and whether it was legal to have his airlines check to see if any had such proof. The health minister didn't seem to have the answers completely clear. That's why I find it very strange that this bill comes out of nowhere. The reason is that it's a little dangerous -- I understand that Covid-19 is a very dangerous disease and epidemic, but I find it boring if it's being used by such epidemics and such diseases to put laws in the shelter of some kind of fear or in the shelter that tourists have to be kept safe from getting here in the summer to get back to some of the tourist industry. I think it's because I wonder what the purpose and purpose of this bill should be and how it serves individuals who live here in Iceland. As noted earlier, as a nation, we are in a relatively vulnerable place in terms of disease prevention, and there is still a risk of another wave coming. I also wondered if the bill will meet its objective, since it is referred to as accepting a certificate that confirmed the negative result of a test. It means an increase in cost for those who come to this country, and I think of the Icelandic citizens living abroad who come here to visit friends and family. A family of four needs four of these, which I understand may cost about 100 euros, which is about 15,000 bucks. Icelandic people, and they have to do the same thing when they go back. So it's an increase in cost, and I wonder, " How can I be equal and if this is in harmony with 66.g. The Constitution says it can't be avoided by Icelandic citizens to come to this country. Besides, I've heard that e.g. In the United States, it may take a long time to get negative results from these tests. They may be ten days old when they finally arrive, so the goal is not to ask for such a test; it tells us very little if that is the case. It may be impossible to get such tests 72 hours in advance if this is in relation to the change made in Regulation the other day. I also feel that it is shocking to place such obligations on the flight drivers. It's like when people come up here on counterfeit IDs. In this case, the obligation to fly drivers is to have already made sure that they have unfaded IDs. I always wondered if laws are presented in such a way that it is actually possible to follow them. I wondered whether this bill serves its purpose, whether it is only to atone the tourism sector, and whether the complainers that came out the other day were taken into account, whether this would bring an end to the Icelandic citizens of their country. That's what I'm thinking about this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u7	A respectable president. I must admit, I didn't expect to discuss this particular bill today. To be honest, it's best to be surprised and not be very careful, actually almost nobody. This is a bill taken in large part from provisional regulations to a bill that has also been proposed, on air travel, a case that has actually been debated during the recent discussion for all other reasons not involved in this particular matter. The concern I have for this bill is due to B- and c-joins 1. The bill. A B is about how the Icelandic government, the Minister, can set a directive as an aviator or an aviator in order to deny passengers the transport they are not able to supply the required certificate or confirmation according to the a-partment. The C team is about the obligation to take passengers back to their destination, but they cannot present a suitable certificate or confirmation according to the a-communications due to their arrival in the country. Now I understand the purpose of the article and the circumstances, but it is now that we live in the law of No. 33/144, better known as the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. There is a law, specifically 2mg. 66. g. which reads, by permission of the President: A citizen's apes will not be prevented from arriving in the country... Whether I consider the bill appropriate in the present circumstances, situations that are serious and I do in no way down the end of the tolerance of the Covid-19 disease myself, along with some of my family members, it is our duty to keep the constitution and not enough on it, but our obligation to ensure that the laws we put together are in accordance with the constitution. That's what I have to worry about. If you can be sure that this law will pass the constitution, I can support this case, but I can't back it up in a good conscience, at least not in a vote, until it is clear. I don't see that this bill's report meets this viewpoint, something that I understand well, since it has been new and may not be won by the time, but it also causes me to worry that a committee I am still unclear whether it will be discussed before a vote. Now, in fact, I get the online message that there will be no further votes today. I must admit that it gives me quite a comfort, but I encourage the committee to examine this team very carefully and make sure we don't run too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u8	Mr. President. If you're concerned about Icelandic citizens and disease control, I don't quite understand them because, so far, certain policies have been in place for everyone on the border, and the Icelanders have gone through them like everyone else. This, of course, is the same. But there has also been a turning point for an Icelander to return to his home. I'm reminded that there has been the exact words of the Minister of Justice in some of the discussions here that there will be no Icelanders turning around on the border. He will have to carry an Icelandic passport with him, or something like that, to prove that he is definitely an Icelander. The situation has already taken place that doesn't change what has been in force. What I was trying to tell people here, boy. Congress is that what has been in effect lately, for those inside and outside Schengen, is no different and has been concerned about the arrival of Americans into Iceland or Iceland, these rules apply just as well now. That's what's being done, what's being done is being eliminated, what is called a legitimate or urgent purpose, so there can be more. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the attempt to comfort me, but I must admit that this particular presentation doesn't seem to me to be convincing, though it may well be that. A senator said it was true. My problem is here I need as an independent senator to assure myself that the case is a constitution so that I may be able to support it. In case of a moment. A senator has come further to that view, and I do not comment on it. The other thing is, I'm not worried about the border in Iceland. I'm concerned that the Icelandic government will not force airlines abroad to reverse an Icelandic citizen there at that time. There may be some legal explanation that would explain that there was a constitution, but at least in no way clear to me at present. In fact, I believe that such an arrangement would not match my constitution when I read this law in the Constitution and in the case. And so the matter must soon be, so I admit it here, as I began my speech to mention, that I have not had the chance to get to the bottom of all the questions of the matter, which is why my doubts are at this point. I don't think there were any more points to answer the question. A senator who I sees reason to respond to at present but what. A senator will then have the opportunity to reiterate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u10	Mr. President. If I've misunderstood a word or two. A senator about what the Constitution is about, I just have to apologize for it. Let's grab down here to 2 mg. 1st par. current air travel legislation. There, a minister may decide to what extent, according to law, a value outside the Icelandic domain. Is it to be expected that if there is a need for a means to be applied, its force also applies to pilots with confirmed flights outside Iceland. Do you understand? Of course, the United States authorities are not responsible for any aerodynamics harming Iceland's flying forces because it is the responsibility of its state and its airline. It is only natural to believe that the rules set on the Iceland border apply apply equally to the Icelandic airlines as well as to foreign airlines. If they come without identification, don't fit, they don't get on a plane. And why is that? There are natural rules not only in the country but also in Iceland. So I don't even understand what we're discussing, how it's relevant to the constitution. I just don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u11	A respectable president. Hv. Certainly, a senator does not have to apologize for mistaken my speech or any of these matters. My concern is that I and the individuals I have access to, have not had the opportunity to look into the matter sufficiently to ensure that it is in my mind and on my council that the case is a constitution. All we want is for the matter to be examined, that this friendship is carefully examined. And the news I received earlier that the matter would not come to a vote today but would be an opportunity to look into it further, calming down my concern enough that at least I would not have to make much more comments about it today. But, in effect, with regard to it as a basis of reason. A senator named them, and I listened very carefully to the words as they were. A senator read up here, and although I didn't have them in front of me and could have misheard or misunderstood some of them, I understood the legal reference so that a minister would be able to establish rules about Icelandic airlines when they're abroad. That's normal. But it's also a bit of the point, that's part of what worries me when the same minister then sets the rules for airlines on how to treat Icelandic citizens abroad. That's the interaction I'm worried about. And again, there may well be a perfectly clear explanation for this and possibly a reason. A senator was more worried about me after this conversation. But we need to reach that point, at least in my council, in order to tell ourselves that we believe that the matter is a constitution to support it. A respectable president. I'm not gonna take this any further than thank you. A senator for his contact, expecting that the matter will be examined well enough so that we will be successful here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u12	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Agricultural minister for responding promptly to these discussions. The review is about measures to strengthen the state of Icelandic agriculture. There are three questions available to the minister under these forces and I would like to review them. 1st What makes Ministers think that domestic product can produce a major market import centre in meat without the main users for manufacturers and their products being drawn together and what are their objectives? 2. How does a secretary see that milk producers and the milk industry are dealing with the main exports of the commercial protein part of the milk, which is just more produced than the Icelandic market? 3. What methods or measures are aimed at helping agriculture deal with costs of energy exchange and other measures to reduce carbon spores? V.E.G. President. I actually have the fourth question, and I'd like to have a little premeditation for it. It would be good if it were the highest. A minister might answer her, too. But the lead is: It is indiscriminate in today's agriculture and farm - sales industry that have suffered a significant change in recent years. The party is in a rough toll agreement from 2015, import of raw meat, altered tollovate exports, which have actually been temporarily suspended. So to set the point across the i-line, there is a demand recession due to Covid-19. I hope things get better in the current year when the effect of Covid decreases. But what can be done? Why are domestic production requirements far higher than those introduced in the case of antibiotic use and the well - being of animals? Why the competition? It's a domestic product for damage. On Tuesday, the Web site of the United Nations Association showed that the integration of Norwegian and Atomic Food will only be accepted with possible conditions. And what is the argument? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. a high market share of fusions in slaughtering and processing of meat, which can lead to serious problems in competition for consumers and farmers. The growth of meat from Europe has increased dramatically in the past decade and is measured by thousands of tons from a market of 400 million people. At the same time, the northern meat industry, both driven by losses, cannot be combined to prevent further damage. What, then, have governments done at the same time? Yes, make a ton of ton with the European Union, as per the EU Convention of 2015. Is there only hope that farmers will be badly treated? The question that follows is: Is a minister willing to exert himself for the fact that the products of the sales companies receive comparable access to a 71 st. • providing more food for consumers and farmers in an effort to improve the quality of milk production? If not, how can the secretary see the rest? V.E.G. President. That was the fourth question. But there is much to think about. The national food security needs to be considered, and they have access to healthful and nutritious foods. In many lands, the production of food in large quantities is unmistakably favorable. Considering factors such as the use of medicines, the level of antibiotic use in European agriculture is becoming excessive. Antibacterial resistance in humans and animals is a global problem in which antibiotics no longer bite resistant bacteria. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Me and the Icelanders are in a unique position with our fine production.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of the discussion that is about to begin. In view of his pointing the fourth question to me, I mention that I will answer it at the end, sew up the answers to the question he raised there. I'd like to first mention that there is a agricultural policy developing for Iceland. Governments, of course, have a major impact on the field of agriculture, but the recent policies in the United States have been very fragile, primarily observed in farm contracts and other decisions resulting from them. The purpose of today's work is primarily to shape the overall policy for agriculture on the role and translation of this article in Icelandic society. I assume that the work that is started there will be made by Congress and then will be the groundwork of the home remuneration review 20203. Of course, we will want to have extensive consultations with all the major agencies involved. I'd also like to mention that we've started a timed 12 teams operation program to further the Icelandic agriculture sector. These measures are intended to promote agrienvironmental support. Their purpose is to create a powerful interview for Icelandic agriculture and make it easier for them to take advantage of the future. These actions are all started, and I expect most of them will be at the final stage of the year. You know, about a question or two. I would like to mention that it is not the government's job to specify the extent of the import of domestic meat production. The companies are in every way better off than the government, and as noted, they have expressed concern for this situation. Therefore, our government and our firms are looking at opportunities for increased efficiency and efficiency, and that work is taking place. We have responded to the position that has been created this past year by various measures, including the U.S. with national carnivores. I'd like to mention in this connection that according to a recent report on food safety in Iceland, the contribution of domestic meat production is now about 90% of the domestic market. Things have not been normally in the past year, but the companies in this market will, of course, respond to increased competition. The situation was expressed concern, and now the work I mentioned earlier is about improving economy and efficiency. I expect that any group working there will soon submit proposals. When asked how I support myself on the roads of milk producers and the milk industry should handle this import, mainly from the protein part of the milk, I want to say that according to this same report from the Landing University, the share of the national production in dairy products is 99% of consumption. The dairy industry, as mentioned earlier, has been defined by special work modalities and cooperations in accordance with Article 71. agricultural shapes, which other areas of agriculture do not have. In addition, the production management of milk production and the decision on total milk payment target in 2021 provided precise proposals for the milk - based network. Thus, industry has tools to respond to market developments and to adapt its production capacity to one another. I think the milk industry is the best thing to do when it comes to the procedures it considers necessary to cope with them. An apocalyptic brings up. Then, at the end of the talk, what ways we have to help the agriculture deal with the costs of energy exchanges and the reduction of carbon footprints? This was a special focus at the recent revision of the livestock contract. It aims to bring the total level of carbon equality to the year 2040. And this policy is also seen at the National Institutes of Iceland. We've issued a climate-based operation program. What concerns agriculture is precisely expressed and I'm not going to go over it specifically here, but climate-friendly agriculture is one of the mechanisms that are highly creative. I'm stressing that it's clear that climates are getting a lot of attention, natural, and agriculture in Iceland is taking a big part when it comes to the measures that Iceland needs to take in this area. The work will not be done without the added force of farmers. Therefore, it is very important that all the application of these materials be done in close consultation with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u14	Madam President. Our carbon footprints are the highest in transport, food, and imported goods. We need to reevaluate our diet and become involved in the production of food. Our strengths for increased vegetable production are impressive. We should let technical knowledge work with us to increase and facilitate the growth of vegetable production in this country because Icelandic vegetables are good and are also good to reduce the emissions of carbon derived from import. This also results in currency savings, more food security, construction, and increased employment. Plants can be developed in various ways, such as by means of more geothermal use, by promoting innovation, by funding for better equipment, and by more efficient lighting, and by raising the existing greenhouses, more efficiency, and efficiency of electricity transport. Young farmers also need to be encouraged to start manufacturing with a generation bridge from the older to the younger ones. We in the United States stress that the interests of farmers and consumers go together in innovation, sustainableity, and the well - being of animals. To strengthen the agricultural environment ensures safety and survival of farms, building blocks, increasing farmers' freedom, leading to economic and eco-friendly quality production. We want consumer goods to increase their levels and competition. We stress that the State has a food policy that takes into account sustainability in food production, climate, nutrition, public health, and social factors. Farming is at peace with the environment and nature of the land and will be prevented from overindulging. There will be a clear understanding of the accounts of the collection and processing of the milk industry, and we want to induce organic farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u15	Madam President. After bad toll agreements were made several years ago against our will in VG, basic changes have been made in agriculture. They led to a reduction in domestic meat production and a lack of profit in exporting lamb and shell. Thus, the production of domestic meat has led many to the limit of endurance and to a lower price in farmers, but it does not yield to consumers. The milk industry faces great challenges. The increase in protein products import is urgent and it is urgent to review the customs agreements with the objective of reducing this increase in agrienvironment schemes. A fine example is that of Skavetir, where my lips are fully used as a product. Involvement of agriculture is in good position to reduce carbon spores and to cope with energy exchange, and this work is already started for the report with the support of domestic contracts. It is expected that the masts and the ability to drive machines with metal or hydrogen, which needs to be strengthened to do so. The best way to reduce the level of carbon dioxide agriculture is to increase the production of a wide variety of agricultural products within the country and reduce the high transport that leaves a large carbon track. We've got plenty of land, clean water and eco-friendly energy, and the opportunities for agriculture are very high. We need to continue to support Icelandic production. It is very important to do so in these times. It's been noted here that in shape there is a agricultural policy for Iceland, and that's a good thing. We've agreed to a food security and protection programme for livestock and to form a Food Fund. All of these are action that is positive for opportunities and opportunities to promote the future Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u16	A respectable president. It is not new to discuss how to support agriculture in Iceland. But this is how, and I don't see a disagreement, that any way that you choose always includes some kind of government property and some kind of trust in consumers or taxpayers. When it comes to customs protection, it causes a certain way of paying taxes. There are consumers who pay more to ensure that there is a domestic product, a target of which there is no disagreement. There are more ways to protect a particular industry, employment, or production than to protect customs, as we know. Of course, some articles can be supported directly by financial contributions. Now I'm not going to pretend to be able to resolve this discussion in four minutes, but I'd like to encourage people to study a phenomenon called a civilian salary. I'm not referring to the entire community, at least not at first, but it's interesting to compare how the calculations look when considering the nation as well as the economic situation of the State in general or its specific aspects, as well as the financial resources of the state that go to farming compared to the people working in agriculture. Then the numbers won't get crazy, even today, a respectable president. I think such a supportive system would be a good idea if we were really to look at it, i.e. to pay the interest of farmers and people in agriculture that would free these same farmers from certain conditions for what to produce or in what amount and allow them to pursue their innovations with much less conditions and much more opportunities to use without asking a so - called king or so - called priest. But I hope I get more from the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u17	Madam President. I'll start by thanking you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður for starting this discussion, and he has the highest authority. Minister here to answer. We're on the finish line right now in this terms-of-the-art period. For example, during the election season of agriculture, I would like to remind you of the interpretation of a food safety strategy adopted on the spring days of 2019. I'd like to direct it to the minister if he could inform us about how this strategy of action was made, but it was put into a number of teams in that process. Indeed, there are very ambitious and good things to pay attention, such as to turn. the use of antibiotics in animal products and such. Madam President. There are a lot of things in the environment with the agriculture that need to be revised and adjusted. I intend once again to tire of a council by referring to the 71nd par. Package involved in meat products. It is simply this way today that the import that comes into this country is the one who is running here to be in a local retail market and we have to give our national manufacturing partners some tools to deal with the market competition. I'm more of a participant in the second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u18	A respectable president. The history of agriculture, of course, is the same as the history of the Icelandic people. Farming is a link in society, the source of valuable things, part of culture, and anchor of society in scattered regions. Of course we can. The importance of domestic food production is also obvious, but for some reason the Icelandic agricultural system is still caring for the demands of the past, not the present or the future. Nevertheless, I believe that there are many and many of them, and it is our responsibility to provide an environment that enables us to seize them. One of the most important tasks in politics at present is to ensure increased flexibility in the system, find new ways to increase the freedom of farmers to meet changing consumption practices and new climate and environment challenges. We need to ensure the freedom of farmers in order to use the vast knowledge they have to use the resources of the country in a way that they themselves think is the most reasonable and ensure that their flourishing green agriculture will continue. A future but not a chronic illness. Restoration has called for a real catalyst for agriculture, a system that contributes to innovation, innovation, uninhabited paths, and can meet the new needs of consumers, and that farmers can enjoy their share. That's the perfect key. The production system is not the answer to modern agriculture requirements. We're supposed to change the funding system into agriculture with emphasis on eco-efficiency, innovation in green food production, protection and recovery of ecosystems, forestry, research and tourism. We're supposed to let the state interfere with meat sales and the money thus saved should be placed in rural innovations, e.g. to the agency of microspheres, home-made cheeses, wool treatment, or forestry. In this regard, we are privileged to say that we trust the farmers best to evaluate how they use their opportunities wisely, and we want to make sure that they are able to do so. [[The president calls.]] The system must not be so heavy that it ultimately inhibits evolution and innovation in this important industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u19	V.E.G. President. The importance of domestic food production has been clear to most people and even more since the capital of the Korean virus. In October last summer, the Central Party proposed a judicial resolution requiring a prime minister to implement 24 measures for the development of domestic food production and a safe and predictable agricultural environment in cooperation with farmers. Among the aims of the proposal is to ensure large - scale domestic food production, provide food and food security, provide environmentally healthy and nutritious food, rely on farms, increase in sustainable and environmental quality, preserve knowledge, improve research and agriculture education, increase understanding of the importance of agricultural production and preserve land quality. Icelanders want powerful and domestic food products that they know and that they can trust. The demand for food from the surrounding environment has rarely been increased and increased with increasing knowledge by the consumer about the benefits of domestic production. The nation's food production is one of the basics of our developing a sustainable, independent society for the future. There is no question that many countries have bad opportunities for agriculture in Iceland. In many areas, a positive work environment is needed to create pioneers who are looking for ways to make full use of products, reduce environmental tracks, and generate valuables from previously ruined products. An animal, pure energy, pure water and air play a key role in the future food production in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u20	Madam President. I'd like to thank you too. The advocate of this discussion today. I'd like to try to get the discussion out of the questions he asks here, and I'd like to start by saying that the main cause of domestic production may be a very small domestic market. As a result of a local market, there is a tight squeeze in and out, as indicated by the question of a man. the advisor, that it is a little difficult to define how far they can go. I think it's fundamental that we negotiate in such a way that sources are mutual and not only sources of mutuality in some kilograms but also comparable sources for the management of companies and other sources to control the competitive status of domestic production. There is no need for that. I'll agree with the highest. Agrienvironmental ministers here are dealing with sources that would have to be applied to improve cooperation and integration within the product range. I think that would be a tremendous response to the position we're in. Secondly, why? An advising how the minister envisions the interests of a dairy producer in the situation that has come up. I think it's a matter of principle, just like the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has, for example. emphasise in their conversation or agreement with Britain, that we react to this situation so that we are opening a way to the level of milk now building up, as in this case, the protein moiety. Third, in terms of climate, I'm going to do this, in the end, to my suggestion that I think the most expensive and targeted action in climate matters would be to support them in building responsibilities to improve the use and treatment of livestock. It reduces emissions, increases value, and improves farming.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u21	Madam President. In agriculture policy is clear. We think it's long time for a radical reexamination of the agricultural system in good collaboration with farmers. We don't want to reduce the money we make for agriculture in Iceland. To save farmers and consumers, the objective must be to make better use of the strength of the government. We want to, at the same time, promote innovation and diversity, more vegetables and more environmental food production. Along with the review of bone growth to agrienvironment, customs and import restrictions need to be progressively removed. It's against modern business. We should not be terrified of the import of healthy meat, a lost war. On the contrary, we are to move forward in the foreign markets and in the fliers of choice materials. For now, Icelanders have to strive to achieve further agreements with the European Union on mutual delinquency of tolls. Food production in Iceland has most of the resources needed to be a global source of environmental food production. There is evidence to suggest that agriculture needs to be increasingly introduced to European regulations and to tolerate full competition outside Iceland, where a member of the European Economic Area. In these circumstances, however, farmers do not have the same access to EU markets where the country stands outside the EU. Agricultural insurance for farmers is the driving of a full EU Member State, the conditions where commercial farmers live in climate and landscapes are very special. In addition, domestic markets are difficult, hard for the country, and considerable isolation. The article is fully operating north of 62th wide degrees, and the well-provable form of Arctic agriculture within the Community. All of these would make good agriculture, farmers would see the sun, and it's good for those who cultivate the earth. A respectable president. Now is the time, the time to turn away from the past, and to look deeply to the green future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u22	A respectable president. In some respects, the status of the agricultural sector is strong. These include health production products, animal products or plant products. Public opinion in general is positive for Icelandic production. The real threat of land management is the incredible toll agreements made on the EU 2016. This is and will be expected in the future to be considered a failure in business agreements. As a result, there is a tremendous increase in the import of free food to the country. To cope with this, the manufacturer of this country must create comparable competitive conditions to those of the European Union. In competitive countries, e.g. much more support for agricultural development than in this country and a lot more production funding. There are also loans to build up agriculture in a way that is very different from Iceland. The high use of toxic chemicals in agriculture and the use of antibiotics is referred to as a sad fact that in many areas a very cheap harvest workers are being introduced. Over the past few decades, research in the interest of agriculture has virtually ceased. This would normally have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the article. This part of the agricultural support network is now almost completely fatherless. The competitive position of the agricultural industry cannot be mentioned without referring to the lack of competition in the Icelandic grocery market and to the situation of the inefficient vehicles, which are practically hunted by the Contestant watch, while little or no comment is made on the giants in a small store. The import control has been carried out on complete damages, as noted by several times. Several products containing milk proteins are brought in unsupervised and unsupervised products. Many of the projects ahead strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural environment. At the same time, I'd like to mention and emphasize the importance of developing agriculture to the rhythm of time and taking the necessary changes. We need to create here a fair and good environment for all possible food production, provide food security that goes hand in hand with sustainable efficiency and less carbon footprints, since it is ultimately all about the environment, the climate, and the future of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u23	A respectable president. New creations thrive on freedom and support. Sometimes there is a contradiction. The support includes the others and these conditions, the rest, and these rules, or something else that narrows the entire box. This is usually done to make sure that the money meets in the right place. An example of this is the social security system and most systems designed to support targeted groups. If we can set up a system that provides financial support without having such a rule that it prevents new thinking and prevents innovation in some sector, then we should take the opportunity to experiment when it is given. I think there are some areas in our society that are more suitable for us to reflect on such ideas and see how rewarding they could be in promoting innovation and new thinking into the future. It is not only our general demand for innovation today but also a change in our environment and nature, which is inevitable in many ways and is actually becoming increasingly overwhelming. In my opinion, there will be an ever greater need to think outside the box about how we're going to maintain the other one or this production. Then I also refer to things like seabeds that we are not accustomed to seeing disappearing in a short period of time except for individual strains, but it is a real threat that we will face serious setbacks in the next few decades as a result of climate change. There is a need for new thought and the need for citizens in the sector to have both the government's support and the freedom to make use of that support according to their own standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u24	A respectable president. It has been fascinating to listen to the talks presented here. It is clear that the general mind now rests with the agriculture. Of course, we have different opinions about where we should go, but we certainly want to do so, and it is good to hear that humans see opportunities in the future. What an opportunity we have! However, we also need to look forward to offering the conditions for working outside the home. We can watch very wide agriculture; from farms, from house to house, we can do the whole thing. Then we have bigger companies, but we also have to allow the companies to unite and manipulate. It has been reduced in reports and in reimbursement companies that it can be economical by fusion or cohesion within these sectors, by about 3 billion a year. I think the next thing I'm sure that in this context this is one of the few practical possibilities for e.g. Sheep farms and cattle farms to turn around, for everyone knows what the situation is in these two sectors, that we have an enormously low price. We have the same price as that of sheep in Romania. But it is my sincere opinion and belief in this project that if we are to succeed in making a request for the articles, we need to look to the one that the milk industry has, i.e. Notation from 71 st. Bumblems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u25	A respectable president. It is not enough to ensure a good and reasonable system. We also need to make sure that the interiors are strong throughout the country. We'll see, for example. News of the fact that milk is not attended because it is not shoveled in towns. We need to ensure that agriculture itself has access to safe electricity and transport networks, strong infrastructures, simple rules of action, taxation and continued production of knowledge and knowledge. You have to be especially careful with the Gardening School, I'd like to say here. The structure of the infrastructure is, in my opinion, the source of progress and innovation in the article, that recent intervention will be actually possible. But the slow guy here is embarrassing to me and he's on the board. These groups, independent groups, advance groups, and left greens, previously the UN, have more or less, since Iceland became republics, have been responsible for these systems, and sometimes prevent very important changes, perhaps out of fear of leading the way, and take opportunities as a very diverse array of sectors of industry and agriculture as they have to offer. I'd like to warn you about what I've heard. This is a request for annuity, once again, from a principle of competition for agriculture. All right, let's take that discussion. But it will not be released and held. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Agricultural minister: Not only will it be released but it will not be held. If the article is to be allowed to release itself from competitive conduct, we must take the other end, which is how we still compete in the country. It is inevitable that we consider what we are going to do with customs. Customs must then be loosened, the import released, if this is to be excluded from competitive law. Finally, I want to say, there is some major error in this system. We have the only highest agricultural scholarship at the same time that consumers pay the highest price. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, the European farmer's vote is the smoothest in international comparison. Hence, it is reasonable to ask: Who is really serving? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u26	V.E.G. President. What production do we Icelanders expect agriculture to provide? Land and domestic food production need to be greatly increased. It has one of the nation's greatest opportunities for the future, where wholesome food, food security, and environmental energy will play a key role. The central category stresss the establishment of a special government agency that handles agriculture and food production in the country. It will also be followed closely after a thorough examination that the errors observed in the import and customs of agrienvironmental products will be adapted. We can see that, the highest. President, when it comes to market conditions, people choose Icelandic production, but it's a real challenge. Today, food is being delivered and sold, so consumers often find it difficult to understand their origins. The great import that now comes upon us in unheated meat, eggs, and unsolved foods is a catastrophe, and we in the Middle Order have spoken of stopping it immediately. There is a betrayal of consumers and manufacturers of this country. One thing tourists want when visiting a new country is to learn about the customs and culture of the country. Food and food are highly regarded there. Obviously, they want foreign visitors who come to our home to come in contact with our fine, wholesome production. It is normal to support and promote that production. This is for our financial recovery. It is one of our unique characteristics as a nation, thus strengthening tourism and food production when tourism is restored. I want to thank you very much for this discussion, and again, thank you very much. Minister for being here to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u27	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. It is obvious that Iceland's agriculture is in many ways an envying position. Government support, no matter where the Trinitarian Union is viewed here at the General Assembly, is clearly very much a part of the industry, although we understand the ways, as we have seen, and in what ways we want to support this powerful and effective industry. I'd like to emphasize in this discussion, because some speakers here speak about having our agricultural system meet the needs of the past, that we are just looking objectively and realistically at this. In many ways, farming in Iceland produces very good products. New energy is available in many areas in the agricultural industry, we can take vegetables as an example, we can take work out in the milk industry, etc. There are lots of good things being done. The problem is the greatest of all sheepdoers. It's a kind of strange image that we can see if we look at the lamb. Consumption has been linked each year. Similarly, farm prices are shrinking, the lowest price in Europe. In cattle production, however, farm prices have been the highest. We see an increase in the consumption of beef, as is the increase in beef consumption here within the country. So the problem lies with the lamb. It is the product of sheep farmers who have to search every route, as we are doing with the National Association of Sheep Farmers, to support the foundation of their flocks in Iceland. That'll be a problem. Because there's a question about how the plan of action is going to work out. I'd like to mention it very well. A member of the Central Party mentions a 24 - part operation plan, and most of its tasks are being carried out. A Union representative speaks of customs in contrast with modern trades, but at the same time he speaks of the need to walk in the European Union, where customs are the highest level in the world and tolls on food in the European Union are much higher than in Iceland. I got it. I got it. Councilmen of the United States to investigate this in particular before they claim to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u28	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the employment board on bill for official support for innovation. The committee has discussed this matter for some time and worked together to make more peace with him than perhaps in the reviews of the committee. I believe it did quite well. The objective of the bill is to bring the innovation environment closer to the present and forward and to increase competitiveness both within the country and toward foreign innovation. New born policy for Iceland was published in the fall of 2019. An article with the bill points out that one of the guides of the Neo-creation policy is to direct funding to research and pioneers rather than to management and management. Thus, the goal of the bill is to promote public support for innovation in the country by simple design, clear responsibility, and a strong connection with university, career, and pasture. Emphasis is placed on the increase in national innovations, support for the innovations of high technology and research and construction education. The aims are to set priorities, reduce surface development, and increase flexibility so that public funds will be most useful to the projects it receives. This target should be met by some measures included in the bill but also by projects carried out by the Ministry of Employment and Development. As I have mentioned, it's about simple support systems of innovation. In the work of the Committee, we received a number of visitors to discuss these factors and to follow their comments. Today, travel, industrial, and innovation ministers have moved some of the activities and activities of the New World Translation Centres proposed to survive in the foretold changes. For example, the activities of Chemical Analysis have moved to the Oceanographic Institute and various projects along with the workers have moved elsewhere within the administration. The majority consider that there is an important progress in achieving a clear policy of action to support innovation and increased competitiveness at a national level. Not including to focus on following along and implementing cluster policy for Iceland. A greater part of the work has emphasized the need to re-create and develop a support environment with innovations with the best implications for the long future. Thus, it has been possible to take into account the views that have been observed in the treatment of the problem on how to strengthen and improve the bill recommended here. Then I'll only access the changes made to the majority of the items that are involved in supporting and counseling with innovation and aid to pioneers. With 1 st. The bill is set out as an objective for special emphasis on the support of innovation in the country. The support network of innovations will be increasingly enhanced on the basis of national parts of the country itself and in close cooperation with the national community, sectoral life and education systems in individual areas. According to one report, a project fund for innovation will be set up to lay the foundation for a powerful ecosystem for innovation in the region. The majority of them consider it important that laws clearly set out the support of innovation and pioneer work and therefore contribute to a change of 9. The bill for this purpose, which is now suggested that a minister be allowed to negotiate with public members, or private candidates for the implementation of new creations. Counsel on innovation and innovation. There we offer suggestions for further support and change to support access to pioneers. In the treatment of this case, the view was that support for innovation was rather fragile and the support system was complex. The largest part suggests that the Ministry will be assigned to install digital information puzzles and innovations as part of digital Iceland. It will provide accessible information on the official support environment present in innovation, whether of the pioneers with an initialized, established enterprise with a project in innovation or foreign organisations interested in working on innovation here. The majority also suggest that the Ministry direct counseling on innovation in the process of innovation. They will offer general counseling and answers to common questions that arise as well as specific questions. For the Commission and the reviews of the case, the cost of seeking counseling on the basis of early ideas could be many barriers, preventing ideas from furthering. Thus, the majority stress that the Agency will have access to first-level curative counsellors and that there will be financial contributions to the Ministry, but the operation will be offered in a public discharge. Such advice will be further defined in Regulation. In addition to the assistance of innovation, a new statement, the Ministry will be appointed to investigate how to build and develop infrastructure through a community plan. The action includes working with a collaborative network of advisers who provide grants to pioneers, and guidance in preparing applications for innovation and research projects for competitive funds, information and guidance for the early stages of innovation projects, and to advise that innovation projects include. Then it's a project fund for innovation to be started. According to the bill's report, a project fund is expected to be set up for innovation in cooperation with the national participation and national application programmes and to be linked to the next development programme. This fund will be supplemented with the projects and contributions now available through the national parish plans. Thus, the majority suggest that these activities be specifically set up in the modified 9th paragraph. to support innovation. We are also involved in strengthening the legal environment of a digital plant, i.e. Fab Lab. Digital carpenters are being driven around the country in cooperation with high school, employment, and rural areas, helping to expand the cooperation of employment and education in connection with innovation and pioneering. The importance of strengthening the production of digital carpenters points to the fact that the contracts of digital carpenters also fall under the authority of a secretary to negotiate with public agencies or private candidates for the implementation of various projects in innovation. The majority also reminds us that negotiating the business of digital carpenters is not limited to a work done together with both the Ministry of Education and Culture, as well as the representatives of the local community. According to this, the larger portion contributes to Article 9. The bill allows the Minister to negotiate the operation of digital carpenters. The amount of money in them has been increased over the past few years and is still increased over the next two years, up to about 80 million. K. Then the facility and the country's settlement. According to Article 6. The bill is assumed to be in the management of a technicality group of three to five individuals. The reviews of the case and of visitors who came before the committee emphasized the importance of securing the residence of the country, both for the administration of the community and for the country's access to a situation in the capital area. The majority of the countries believe that it is important that technology is clear that the whole country will be served and the country's residence will be ensured by the founding of the EU. The majority also stress that in a government, representatives of the University of Reykjavík, Iceland's University, university community in the country, employment, and pioneers. Thus, the government has five individuals at least and contributes a greater portion to the change. The greater part suggests that there will be an increase in the provision of provisional regulations requiring that an analysis of the activities of the Society will be performed after two years and that this will be given to the secretary of the World Council a report on the activities of a technical site. Thereafter, the need for a specific representative council, which was being discussed, should be reviewed by the Society's management board for counselling. This brings us to the point of research and construction. We in the greater part and all the committees have placed great importance on continuing in the long - term construction research. In the treatment of the case before the Commission, a number of construction studies have been conducted here, ranging from various construction studies, e.g. The development of concrete, and structural physics for extensive research on alkalosis in concrete, houses, and structural barriers. The majority of them consider it important not to break this association in these studies. They even have. Labs, the construction industry's laboratory, engineering agencies, and two of the largest universities in the country. For a number of years, a section of the studies was saved at the Köldnahol Institute, where some study tools are specialized. Now that the new creation center ceases, the majority of it stresses the need to reevaluate the supplies, cooperation, and funding of such fundamental research as the greater part does not consider to fall below the values of the new competitive fund. Thus, the majority suggest changes in the bill, which includes emphasising that the studies will take place uninterrupted until the end of 2020 in the category of new technologies, in cooperation with the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík, and that there will be a contract between these parties on the implementation and funding of designated projects. Technical facilities will be replaced whenever possible, and current research will be in priority. During the above period, efforts will be made to reorganize the research work on arrangements, practices and funding with the objective of ensuring its social and scientific benefits. Then comes the testing and training of the construction industry. The Commission stresses the continuation of the construction work programme and must be carried out to ensure that the quality of the construction projects will be carried out by the sector's trade requirements. The market-based tests are left to be carried out by private agents. In the bill, it will be used to highlight the need to ensure harmonization in research and testing in the construction industry and to lay the basis for innovation and adaptation of the construction industry to international quality requirements. The facilities for research and testing remain in the laboratory at Köldnaholt, under the hat of a technical facility. I think it's very important that there's no breach in the intervening process and that new facilities will be built up for a lasting future. It will also continue to be cooperated with the Department of Social Affairs and Housing and Mobilization Agency in a permanent arrangement. Then we've arrived at the staff of the New World Translation Centre of Iceland. In the 10th. The bill is suggested to eliminate official support laws for technology and innovation. That means the operation of the New Creation Centres will be eliminated. As regards the retirement of public servants, the laws on the rights and duties of the government and the orders for their retirement are primarily in the section of the Law on the rights, on the part of the employee, and the head of the administration, to cancel the employment contract. Then there's a set of guidelines for antiquation on the part of an institution. For the Commission and the reviews, it was stated that much emphasis is being made on the legal status of employees in exchange for business on the staff of the topic, bio and energy technologies and the construction industry, and that they are offered a job for a new technical site. If the rights of workers to handle enterprises are considered relevant in this position, it is important to continue the salary and working conditions under the collective labour agreement as well as the conditions established by the former employer and also that it is not permitted to leave jobs for business exchanges both before and after the transition, unless economic, technical or organizational reasons exist that require changes in the staff. The majority agree with the view that the Community legislation should be relevant in this case and emphasised that staff on the committees part of the Management Centres move to a technical site. The Commission therefore suggests that there is a new paragraph in which it is stated that the two responsible personnel in the two departments are acting according to the legislation on the rights of employees to business ventures, as appropriate. In addition, the new society, as mentioned above, will be laid down. The bill should offer a job to all the staff of the above departments. In terms of the bill input, a greater proportion is suggested by the Ministry's proposal that the Act be implemented on July 1st, and the dates of temporary I, II, and IV regulations adjusted accordingly. Thus, Iceland's New Creation Centre and Technology Development Fund will work on and on June 30, 2021 in accordance with the government legislation on the support of technology, innovation, and employment development. Then I'm going to go over some of the changes made by this committee party. I'll take care of an adjustment proposal that runs on the 9th floor. which, along with a headline, said: ANNUAL support. A minister is permitted to negotiate with public members or private candidates for the implementation of a new creation project, such as contracts for the operation of digital carpenters. The minister should set up a digital innovation precaution for information on innovation support and ensure that advice in the early stages of innovation is free and accessible anywhere in the country, including: guidance in the application procedure within the support of innovation. The secretary of the Regulation shall give further consideration to the implementation of counselling on innovation. The minister shall give a specific grant, a Loa ◯ project grant, to the development of innovations in the country. The role of the sponsors is to support innovation and infrastructure, to create valuables, and to work by means of intelligent knowledge, on the basis of their own areas. The legislators must be distributed outside the capital area, as defined in the current ESA based card and its guidelines. Support can also be given to projects that contribute to the building of ecosystems for innovation and infrastructure. The Minister shall agree with the Regulation on the implementation of granting grants, deadlines to submit applications for granting grants, form and application requirements and assessment committees for granting granting grants. Then there are technical changes and prolongation of the time of current legislation, i.e. that these laws take effect on July 1st, 2021. In the 6th stanza, a new paragraph is added to provisional III, as follows: ▪ When creating centres work is restored, dr. provision for temporary I, on the rights and responsibilities of the staff of the topic, bio and energy technologies and the building industry's laboratory, also under the laws on the rights of employees to business ventures, No. 72/2002, as appropriate. Implementation by force of the law 2.g. all staff of the above sectors should be offered. In chapter 7, the bill adds two additional provisional regulations, as follows: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The secretary shall report to the General of the Commission on the status of the innovation support after the collapse of Organic Institutes, development of innovations in the country, effectiveness and motivation for innovation, which the Ministry is assigned and the technical functions of the facility will no later than two years after the approval of this bill. b. A minister is allowed to negotiate with a company at the hospital. 2.g. to oversee long-term specialized construction research in cooperation with Iceland's University and University of Reykjavík and to use the facilities available. At the same time, they will be working on the future construction projects in the country to set up the most acceptable design for the year 2022. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the adjustments made particularly in the different box I was quoting. Under this view, the above - mentioned publications, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the case, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Njáll Friðbertsson. Since we're discussing these two issues together, including the bill for technical development, I'll also tore up with this team in a short language of the Committee's opinion of a greater part of the labour board with a change in the bill for technical development funds. Technological development fund is designed to support development and research in the field of technological development aimed at innovation in Icelandic employment. It is permitted to finance innovation projects according to the main policy of the Scientific and Technical Council. As shown in a paper with the bill, there is no suggestion that material changes will be made to the legal requirements for technological development. However, the proposed changes make it clear that the funds are also permitted to strengthen research and technology in cooperation with foreign funds. It now applies only to institutions, universities, and companies as partners. I'm just going to make some changes in some of the parts. When a minister gave a bill for the legislation on Technical Development Fund, it came to the viewpoint of a debate in the Senate that it was abnormal that in the law advising the funds to be involved in sceptres at the earliest stage of innovation, as it remains in the bill, in particular in terms of competitive funds, was referred to in the bill that is a consistent law on official support of technology, innovation, and professional development. A similar view was expressed in the treatment of the case before the committee, when it was noted that it was important that there be no doubt inconsistencies and neutrality in technical development funds for funding evaluations. In fact, according to information given to the Ministry the fund's ownership of the sceptres has not been established and has taken the policy of not applying this authority. In view of the above, the majority of the differences are that despite the lack of technical knowledge, it is important that the body's neutrality is above doubt. Thus, the majority suggest that the provision of the Technical Development Fund for the possession of the sceptre companies be removed. The greater part also suggests that there is an addition of a provision to explain the authorization of the Technical Development Fund for participation in international humanitarian projects and that distribution must be permitted to be built up at a level established by partners. The change is in line with a change made on official support for scientific research in which the Board of Research Fund was given comparable sources consistent with the work of similar funds abroad. In addition, the more part will suggest a change in the terms of validation in accordance with the terms of taking effect in the bill for official support of innovation, but if the bill falls under law no. 75/2007. Then comes the adjustment into several teams, some of which are technical, but the third joint sounds like: We're 2nd. Section 4. and a new proverb will be added, which will be 2 Peter 3: 1. Case., as stated: International cooperation projects of research and development funds are permitted based on the results of a level set by partners. Section 4: After Section 6. Come up with a new article, as follows, with a headline: Change of other laws. The following change in official support laws for scientific research will be made, No. 3/2003: instead of ◯12. par. track No. 75/2007κ at 1 mg. Count 9. The law comes: 3. law on technical development funds. Section 5: Instead of date ◯1. May 1, 2221, 7th C.E. Come on: July 1st, 2021. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes presented here. Under the authority of this case, case is thought to be written by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director of Professional Affairs, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jónsson Sigurður Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friður Friðriksson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurdrúnsson. This will lead to a conclusion on these committee views and the changes mentioned in the two issues discussed here, a bill for official support in innovation and its follow-up product, a bill for the Management of Technology Fund. I would like to complete my case by thanking that I have a good and regular cooperation within the committee of this matter. We have tried to cope with the anxieties and speculations that were so common in many and varied comments and that were very similar. It showed that the environment of innovation would need to be strengthened further and that the good plans presented in the bill ratio into the law text, i.e. ensures assembly in structural research and there is no breach. In addition, to ensure that the possibility for innovation and pioneers at early stages would be continued to seek advice, free counseling and supportive support, applying for the funds that can be applied in a diverse innovation environment. All of this we believe is that we have put our arms around this matter. I just want to thank you for the fine work of the whole committee making this case even better for innovation in the country and with the expectations that it will have a very positive effect in the innovation environment and further national interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u29	Mr. President. This is a matter that has evidently raised a certain fear of society and perhaps not for no reason. I'd like to ask you a few things about the committee opinion of the greater part. There were a number of comments on the bill that were very negative, and these indicate significant changes and even dismissal of the whole case. I heard why. At the end of her talk, a senator said that she felt that they had been put to the test. I would like her to say a little more about how much of their concerns were involved and how many of the comments received were negative and suggested that there be something else to do than to agree with this bill. Then I'd like to ask about the digital carpenters. Since the first literal day of Iceland's innovation, the basis for cooperation with FabLab's digital plants has been established in Iceland. I wonder what it is that gets a what. To view this arrangement as a means to promote digital structures, a senator would be responsible for the development of digital plants. Is e.g. Is there a policy yet? Is there any kind of capital set up? Is there some kind of setting that ensures that the next step for digital carpenters will not be some kind of void where there is no clearly defined space until someone thinks of creating some clarity, perhaps later in the year or even next year or e.g. Late for the next term?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these questions. Regarding the first question, we met the reviews. Many commentators expressed deep concern that what the bill went on was not being sufficiently secure, and perhaps especially what was going on around the country. They expressed concern as to whether there was a guarantee of access to counselling and information and access to the Technological Development Fund, and concerns about the accepted applications, because it has been identified as not a large part of the application of the country that has been funded into the Technical Development Fund so far. I believe we've done a lot of good with these concerns, and most of the time we caught them in this matter. And as I went over, I think it is very important and of course, at the time, to strengthen the availability of this digital innovation puzzle, that there is free counseling in the early stages and availability of all Americans, as well as support to apply in these funds and to build applications in the most professional manner, and that there will be assurances in construction studies with which we worked very much, and that the situation of the Keldnahol will be replaced until one is built up, that it will be performed in two years's time. With my digital carpenters, I'll come in on them in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u31	Mr. President. I would have wanted answers to both of them because there's plenty to ask. About what? A senator to my previous question: There has been some reviews. that the total fraction of 100 million is spoken of. K. for the country's settlement. I have to ask you what. A senator who is now a member of the country just like me: Is that enough? Is that really enough? Is it true that instead of having people living in different parts of the country that know things, know the settlements, know the areas, and have a personal relationship with people, some type of digital port with a faceless program that people talk to to in order to be able to compete for about 100 million? K.? Is that enough? Maybe it's to add that now I have to ask about the timing of this too. I know it's a matter of commitment to criticize the timing, but we have to face the fact that we've had a pandemic going on and have a recession in Iceland of 10.4%, which is mainly explained by Covid. Might we not wait to turn our feet off until things have improved, perhaps not allowing the legs to pull away and build them up? Then I have to ask a question at last: Now I have brought chemical analysis to the Oceanographic Institute. In what world is this the best provision for chemical analysis?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u32	Mr. President. As for the digital carpenters, we've got them into lyrics that I think are very important. As I mentioned, this is being done in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, with a lot of money added into it, so I think this environment is very well covered in this bill. For the sake of whether this is the right time, I think this is the right time to revise the innovation environment when we have to turn ourselves out of the economic depression that has been caused by Covid, exactly that. I think we're doing exactly what we're doing. In the case of chemical analysis, the relevant organisation was examined for a position to cooperate with it. People who have worked in this article at the Creation Center will move to these places, they will move along, as shown in the bill, so I believe that in this field there will be considerable professional activity. In this matter, we can always ask ourselves, " Why is this, and why is this so? ' We're getting together and taking care of these matters very carefully. Regarding their failure to represent the New Creation Centres around the country, they will remain in the Philippines and in the West, and two from Akureyri will be in the Ministry. They're the people you can reach, not only will there be some automatic answering machine that answers in the innovation puzzle, but people. The 100 million projects fund is being set up to build opportunities and facilities and clusters wide and wide throughout the country and on that project is also the basis of strategy and employment development institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u33	Madam President. I want to continue with the question of how on earth this can be a good time for system changes in the innovation environment. As told by the U.S. and Technologies Office, Presidential permission says: The announcement of the Agency's office's private and high pressure that the Agency's services are not maintained is already causing only four of the 20 employees left at the Amendment Centre, which is related to the support of pioneers in the early stages and down to two in the future. They were 20 before the Minister's announcement in February. We're out of business in Isafjordur, and we're out of business in Akureyri, and there's no shell in death tanks. The Agency has not been able to recruit staff to meet the avatar escape. When we entered this epidemic, all of us called at a council for innovation to be the way out of the economic crisis we were going through, that innovation is the way to get out of that condition. How, then, can destroying the bioavailability of primary innovation be a good idea? How can it be a good idea to make changes in the field of system life that we would like to inject support? I don't understand, and I want to know better. Hv. A senator spoke of applications in a non-country Technological Development Fund that are not agreed on in proportion to other applications. I now went to the Technical Development Fund over a year ago, becoming two maybe. This was the message that a similar percentage of applications were accepted from outside the country and from the capital area. The problem would be that there were a lot less applications coming from abroad. A similar high percentage of the applications received from abroad was accepted as from the applications received from the capital area. There were just a lot more applications that came from there. That would be the support of people who want to apply for innovation in a technology fund that was the problem, that they could not get help. And now it's even worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u34	President. Why This Time? I came in earlier. Of course, all things should be reviewed regularly, including innovation. There is no way we can use ancientism in this regard. There must also be a need for innovation in that subject. That is just what is being done with the bill, thinking of innovation, how it will be best to have innovation available to all the people of the country in competition with other nations, and how we can build a national standing. That they're destroying the bioavailability of innovation -- it's such a misdemeanor as much as possible. I would now have thought that the Piranians of all categories would be impressed by our developing into a digital environment, which we are doing exactly by the innovation puzzle, which is a novelty of the case. We're setting it up, and it's to provide good advice for all, whether they live in Gambiey, Thors Harbor, or Drangsnesi. There has been no bioavailability in these places so far. There will continue to be a rookie council officer on Ísafjörður and the Western Islands, and the new recruits who have been in Akureyri will be aiding these cases through the Ministry. I believe these matters are only very well arranged by this arrangement. In terms of innovation funding, I would like to note that recently assigned funds from the Research Fund are being funded by 2021. There have never been more projects that have been funded or higher, and the funds have been set up for 3.7 billion this year. Thus, it is not possible to say that, on the part of the government, it is not possible to vomit into this group of subjects in these circumstances. Hopefully, that will return to the future and for building up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u35	A respectable president. The distribution rate was not high this fall, 8% of the applications received, of the applieds considered to be good. In the spring of the outbreak, the government's situation came up here and said: "No, it doesn't take just 3 billion in innovation, it takes 9 billion. That number was just ahead of that distribution. More was then needed, absolutely definitely, but the opposition to the government brought the right number into all this process. It is not proper to say that there is some ancientism when you are criticizing the creation of a gap in knowledge that was being cast out before a new knowledge and a new system is built up. It's a vandalism. You will start by bringing a plan on how the new system should look before throwing it out. Otherwise, there's a gap, and that's what I just described. As told by Space Iceland, the way the workers with knowledge in this field have actually fled this situation because their security has been gone. Of course, they are looking for a new security. This is the problem I'm describing. I can criticize the bill as such for various reasons, but I'm not going to do it. I'm looking at how this system is being thrown out without a plan on what's to be replaced. That's what a minister did, he decided to put the Second Creation Center down in February 2020 without knowing if it saved money. This was followed by an explanation, but it has not yet been proved correct, and a plan was to be established on what should be replaced. This is so wrong, and the harm is so obvious, but hopefully it'll get started and it'll be well done. But in the meantime, it's really kaos.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u36	Mr. President. I can't agree with that. The last speaker to say it's a total kaos. The change has had a long turn of events, and surely many have come to this matter to make it even better. I think that poor ass. A senator, if it were a problem, would speak of a bride. We've been working on a professional committee to fill up what we thought would need to be improved in this matter and to work hard together. Various professionals have been called to advisers and have taken into account the reports received. So I'm very pleased with this product as it has become now, and I believe that by composing this with a regional, national, national, national and sectoral support and employment development partner in each region and private companies, these members can now apply to Loa, which has been advertised for applications. The fund will be able to strengthen and build up beyond the borders of the land. And in many areas, such infrastructure is based on locals and businesses. There are 100 million for the initial distribution at this fund, so I think we're in a good place and we're fully responsible for promoting that during this most ideal period, public donations for innovation, research, and knowledge are increasing by more than 70%. I'm only saying 70%. It must be worth something to have emphasized this much in this terms of strengthening and strengthening innovation in action, not just in word, and we are also doing it with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u37	Mr. President. I'm here recommending the Committee's Article 1 of the Workhall Committee, which consists of me and my nature. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. This bill, which we have discussed somewhat in detail on the committee, was presented in the question of why. The main decision is to put down the New World Health Center of Iceland and establish the Technical Environment of Iceland. It's disappointing, to be honest, Mr. President, how dreary the bill really is, and there's no strong vision of the future of innovation in Iceland. The bill's report certainly discusses the goal of promoting public support for innovation in the country by simple design, clear responsibility, and strong ties to university, career, and pasture. The focus of the bill highlights the expansion of national innovations, support for high-tech innovations, priorities, reduction of development and flexibility, so that public funds are most useful to the projects it provides. Unfortunately, it is estimated that in spite of these excellent goals, they are certainly not being followed in the text of the bill itself and in spite of a good change made by a greater part of the Committee, they are still not being followed up in the text of the bill itself. Mr. President. This is a fairly large change in the support of innovation in Iceland, and the party laid down responsible for the support of Icelandic pioneers from 2007 onward to the creation center. Actually, Mr. President, I'd like to draw special attention to how well the Committee was working on the case together, although it was a lesser part of the conclusion that due to the large defects that were on the bill at the beginning, it is impossible to support the case. It should also be said that with the matter discussed, the chairman of the committee and the chairman of the case has made an earnest effort to get all views available among the delegates and members of the committee who are to imitate. However, this is an important matter, and it can be seen most of the many statements given to the committee, a total of 34 discourses and reviews. Many of them, if not most, were quite negative, although many were delighted that this musculoskeletal system was being revised. There was a concern about the post of the pioneers who are taking their first steps, support of innovation in the country's settlements and status, and the funding of construction research followed by the decomposition of the New Creation Centres. There was also concern over the business of a technical facility, financing, and its vague role. Then there was also concern that the bill would greatly reduce support for innovation in a larger sense. Similarly, the extent to which the matter was dealt with by the Ministry was criticized. All sources have in their own way benefited from the work of the Committee and should be thanked for those who sent them in. The modified section suggests some necessary changes to the bill. In view of the initial nature of the case and the failure of the case by the Ministry, it is clear that the matter cannot be supported. Still, there is a reason for the procedure to be blurred and diagnostic, which should have led to a fundamental change that was unconvinced or absent. Then the time frame of the transition process is too short and the Agency has not been molded for the activities of the Agency. Similarly, many things would have to be done further. Part 1 of it is less convincing that there is actually a need to postpone further discussion and prepare for further discussion. At that time, this time point is particularly unfortunate to have uncertainty in the system, and there is rarely a greater need for support in innovation and pioneering in the country than at present. A smaller subset in the context of how far the Ministry has gone to the Agency before the will and approval of the Council makes it difficult to take steps back, disappear from the decision, and start the journey at the right start. Mr. President. In fact, the bill to be on official support for innovation is about the task of putting down Iceland's New Creation Center and setting up a technical facility. The headline of the bill could now have been understood, so it would have discussed how public support for innovation and pioneering, but that opportunity is not new. The bill lacks a vision of the role the State should play and how services to important partners in innovation are best cared for. There is also a need to export important services, e.g. at the national level, in the early stages, support to international and international cooperation and other challenges, such as the urgent challenges to be met, e.g. on climate change and other social challenges as well as the multiple consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic. A report by a minister on the development of cluster policy points to the State's role in innovation in connection with clusters. Thus, there is a particular vision of how these subjects should be approached. It is to be celebrated, but still remains unclear how the implementation of policy and financing of its initiatives are not available. At least. Treat important questions that are not addressed in the bill. Part 1 considers it important for a minister to determine the implementation of the cluster policy as soon as possible to be useful in the state of decomposition of the Creation Centre. Mr. President. During the past few decades, the importance of international cooperation and international market attendance is increasing. In spite of increased emphasis on national international competitiveness, the fact is that Iceland's competitiveness has been paid internationally. It'll even come. Present, Mr President, for the review of Kristján Jónsson. On the list of Global Innovation Index, which is then in the original languages and is an international innovation list, to a very poor significance, Iceland was in its 13th position between 2015 and 2017; however, over the years, we have fallen to 20,◯23. Sit down. It's the same time we've lived with steady, annual economic growth. Kristján also notes that among Iceland's major strengths over the past few years, the number of published sciences and the percentages of research funded by foreign capitals have been considered to be low ratios of high and intermediate technology in domestic production and export. In addition, the country is very low in terms of the number of graduates from scientific and technological studies, but in recent years there has not been a continuing increase in the number of government initiatives. Then, in the 2008 report McKinsey, the importance of building almost exclusively on new exports was found. Not to be overlooked is the fact that international cooperation and cooperation in the public field are equally important for the international competitiveness of the country and to participate in that work, we need both the knowledge and the human resources of the public who are supporting the ecosystems of innovation and have the opportunity to work on such international cooperation projects. The importance of supporting innovation, research, and development is undisputed and has not been added in recent years. However, as we examine the figures and the underlying factors, it is clear that the increase is primarily due to an increase in the share of enterprises, while contributions for research and development in colleges and public institutions have been drawn together, particularly in public institutions. However, such research has shown that there is a clear link between government investments and private sector in research and development. That means, Mr. President, by raising your own donations to university and public research institutions, the state is at the same time promoting further personal activities. Today, much emphasis is being placed on the use of innovations that resulted from the crisis we face and the realization that now there is no reason to reduce the support of international cooperation and the development of innovation and technology. On the contrary, it would be wise to strengthen even more effective measures to support innovation and emphasize the arrival of the State in covering gaps between research and market. At the same time, we would have reason to promote the institutions of the government that carry out technical research, the services of employment, and the many aspects of surveillance. Mr. President. One major criticism of this change is that it was being abandoned from the support of pioneers in the first steps that have had a very good access to it at the National Creation Center of Iceland. The suggestion for more support measures for early pioneers is improved, but the change is only a response to what is lower in terms of many of the bill's limitations to eliminate the total insurmountable support for pioneers at first steps and let the private sector take over. Many visitors undertook the need for pioneers throughout the country to have access to free guidance on all early steps to make it possible for them to appreciate the willingness of their ideas. A variety of support services to pioneers on first steps is available in all of our comparators, and none of them have thought of tearing down such services rather than building and improving them. In this context, many and serious comments were made in the elimination from the support of innovation outside the capital area. Despite good promises in the bill's report, the song text is completely lacking on the bill's objective of the bill's focus on innovation in the country. In terms of a smaller portion, the changes made to a greater part of the Committee are stepwise, as well as to the Ministry's decision to maintain the levels of innovation centers that have been outside the capital area and to move them to the Ministry. However, this is not the case with one of the greatest criticisms of the New Creation Center, i.e. only a limited part of the country, and workers located only in Akureyri, Italy, and the West. This has been particularly critical of the East, believing that this lack of access to the support of innovation in the part of the country has had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the part of the country in this respect. A smaller portion of 1 thinks that if you had been well, you would have to deal with that criticism in some way, e.g. by setting up a set of values in that part of the country as well. Then it would have been preferable to discuss in some way the Office of the Ministry to support the construction and operation of a pioneer on land as much as it would normally be to discuss if there was a real desire to support and further innovation outside the capital area. The first part of the memory would also want to point out that although there is a $ 100,000 fund for the promotion of innovation outside the capital area, there is not much money to discuss with each project, although there is certainly no support for any new creations. Then we are here talking about a fund that was originally meant to respond to any need for support in innovation outside the capital area, which everyone realized would never be enough. Then a minister of discussions at the council pointed out that the fund would also benefit those who support innovation and pioneering outside the capital area. The fund's rules, however, clearly state that the majority - owned state or rural society does not lead to those given support, whereas rural communities are exactly the most likely party to be on, e.g. that pioneers or other tasks associated with the support of pioneers in their territories It must then be noted that the funds could simply have been better established by the national parts of the community as part of the building up of national parish programmes, which have the role of sponsoring culture, employment development, and innovation rather than creating another fund for which pioneers need to apply, with all the work they have, and with the time they would like to use more. Mr. President. One of the major issues on the bill was the construction industry's laboratory and was deeply concerned about the state and future of technological research that have been produced in the Neo - creation centre up to this point. Thus, Iceland's Accuracy Association states that if the bill becomes reality without necessary changes, it is likely that irreparable damage - Mr. President, irreparable damage - will occur in the environment of innovation as well as practical technical and construction research in Iceland. The reviews also showed that construction research is a long - term project and that it is important to maintain a continuous and secure funding to carry out the research projects required for the construction of the country. In this context, I'd like to mention, Mr. President, here we are, in fact, here. discuss mold research, which is truly a subject that we are facing in these days, and we have done in recent years and have not provided the end of it. It is of utmost importance for their future that this work is being done well and that the experience, knowledge, and research that are now being carried out are not lost because of these changes. It will seem unlikely that some of such research can be held in the hands of non - state, although some of it can come from various laboratory, domestic, and foreign sources. But it is also natural for such research to be carried out within the establishments of the state as neutral parties on the market. Such an arrangement is also in the other North countries, e.g. with SINTEF in Norway and Riso in Denmark However, it was agreed that certain tests and tests could certainly take place elsewhere, and they discussed the importance of laboratory prognostication in that context and that the majority of the Committee can accept that view. But that doesn't change, Mr. President, the importance of construction research. They also require a little specialized equipment that often takes a lot of space. Thus, it may not be practical to place this activity in the Watermelon, where it is clear that squares are very high, but the new creation center has been in a very practical home in Köldnaholti. The majority of the committees seem to appreciate the importance of this and suggest in their committee's move, where more time is expected to be involved in the future construction projects in the country and that they will be set to the desired range by the end of 2020. The first part of the memory wants to justify the importance of considering the tips mentioned in the references to the Committee and to consult with professionals and trade unions such as, for example, Iceland's engineering club and college. Mr. President. In context to the university, I'd like to establish only a technical establishment. Most reporters rejoiced with the idea of developing a technical site that would support high - tech innovation projects. However, there was concern that the work of the company is not clear enough, nor is it the business plan. There were also indications that it is not clear whether work should be done at all universities in the country or only to the two schools in Reykjavík. It was then noted by several sources that although national access is spoken of as being made, the technology is not clear how it should be accessed. A smaller portion agrees with that comment and feels that it is desirable to make it more available. As we know, it is usually on the budget for pioneers to attend such services in the capital area. The reviews also made it a concern that the business plans of a new technology site would be inappropriate, especially because its operating costs would always be considerable with the pay, rent and maintenance costs of equipment, but also with special design and new facilities in the water swamp, renewal of equipment, etc., while the business community's income went out mainly from failures. In this context, the Committee noted that it was possible to establish a direct competition for the strength of the parties to serve and cooperate with them. Then Iceland's University pointed out in its review that this modified form of society may also affect the development of a community for some time, especially with the European Union, but a private partner will always need some time to gain credibility in order to live up to the cost of long - term work that the government does not need. Mr. President. In the treatment of the situation, it was made clear that workers of the New Creation Centres themselves have ideas and ambitions for the changes to come in the innovation environment in Iceland, where there is no experience. This seems to have gone unnoticed by the Ministry on the bill, with little or no consultations with employees despite a good promise of such a decision being announced. The Ministry's view of theism of the staff seems to be that it is totally a matter of its own security. A smaller part of the employment committee believes that it would have been better to consult with the staff of the New World Translation Centres and use the ideas it contains to improve the innovation environment in Iceland. Instead, it seems that the first decision was to put down a New Creation Center, for reasons that the 1st things do not yet know, and then find out what to do instead. While it is good to ensure that the security of a section of the staff of the New World Translation Centre grieves, it grieves less than the fact that there have been no more consideration for the various ideas and experiences there. I hope this staff is still prepared to present their ideas to improve the innovation environment in Iceland, and we encourage the Ministry to consult with them. Mr. President. In the treatment of the case, a number of criticisms were made of the operations of the New Creation Centres in recent years and can be seen reflected in a prime minister. These include the introduction of the New Creation Centres to various practical chemical measurements and the lack of practice in this context, the lack of support for pioneers outside the capital area, especially in the East, and other factors. These issues have not really been debated and had been discussed for some time as to the need to make changes in our work. However, the decision to settle the Agency was not something that had previously been discussed, so most were surprised. It would have been more reasonable to evaluate the activities of the Agency in the context of other nations and to suggest that there had been a deeper understanding of the nature of innovation and support for the complex ecosystems of innovation. Unfortunately, it has long wanted to burn in Iceland that in decision making, both follow-up and assessments of the consequences of decisions have been made in several national assessments and in the conclusions of the Scientific and Technological Council. A minister's decision to put down a new creation center without any intervention creates the very risk of mismanagement of public capital. Mr. President. In addition to this, we've been discussing the Development Fund. It is primarily a technical adjustment, but it would have made me want to go beyond the majority of the committee's management committees. But I think it's important that we take the step of ensuring that the residence of the country to the governments of public companies and institutions will be determined by a certain percentage of the administrations outside the capital area. I'll be able to propose the adjustment of that proposal at 3rd. Unfortunately, I did not have time to put her away for this discussion. Mr. President. I'll have my case closed, but as previously said, it'll be signed by a committee opinion, plus what's said here, okay? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u38	Mr. President. I hereby represent the opinion of a secondary part of the employment board on bill for official support of innovation. In view of the lower portion, it was evident from the beginning that the bill was incomplete, as shown by the majority of the segments creating considerable variations in its content. Rather, we should evaluate the efforts of the greater part to improve the situation. In discussing the matter, representatives from a greater part and both smaller parts have tried to make changes with the goal of improving the subject of the bill. I would like to use this opportunity to thank you for the cooperation of the commission under the leadership of the committee. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. This helps to remind us that a detailed, high - height, goal description in Article 1 shows that it is not easy to do so. The bill has no correlation in its contents. This was repeated in reviews and on the part of visitors at the meeting of the committee. With a reasonable simplicity, it is possible to say that the active subject of the bill is only two; to bring down Iceland's New Creation Center, which seems to have been the main issue on the part of the Ministry, and to give a minister permission to start a new partnership, i.e. A private centre on the operations of a technical facility. The official support of innovation is an important subject that requires careful work and preparation when it is attacked by law. Based specifically on Kristján Leósson's review, evolution director of the DT-Equipment ehf., stated: Unfortunately, the current employment and innovation bill is for official support to innovation, on the same basis, in signed, without adequate diagnostic work of the provision of public funds to R&TH, inadequately compared to comparable systems in other countries, with no adequate cost analysis of planned changes to the field of technical research in the future, without adequate consideration for any other aspects of the work of the relevant research organisations than those involved in the innovation environment, without analysis of the major opportunities for Iceland in technical research and without a targeted support strategy to maximise the results of government contributions for technical research and innovation in the near future. Kristján believes that it would be best to postpone the planned bill until the results of such diagnostic work are available. Other smaller things agree with these views as to the necessary basis for major legal adjustments. Apparently, there is a lack of adequate preparation of the bill. In terms of 2 less parts, the changes made by the majority are proposed by the bill and at least to some extent fallen to correct the serious shortcomings of the prime minister. However, the fault with the above - mentioned problem has not been corrected. Part 2 shows that it does not seem that it has been successful in supporting the goals outlined in Article 1. the bill on how to promote and support innovation in the country. There are doubts about how the bill has responded sufficiently to the changes it involves when it comes to supporting the pioneer work. It would have been desirable to have been clearly defined in a song text. At the same time, a lower portion of the rest feels that it was not intended to shape a future construction policy. In particular, these include the important research that may fall outside contracts made at university. These include considerable social interests from basic research, building and building, and a number of other factors, including molds in the houses. A smaller share of the opinion is that a better explanation could be made for what was chosen to be given to the Housing and Managing Agency to oversee the new competitive fund for construction and mobilization studies, but it seems uncertain whether such management would fit the site of that institution. Ranni has much of the management of various research funds and is already given knowledge, processes, and the management of competitive funds against the one appointed to form a price. In view of the fact that Ranni's new competitive Fund had been strongly considered to be involved in the management of the new competitive fund. At the same time, less 2nd items call attention to uncertainty about the economic consequences of the proposed changes, including when it comes to operating a technical facility, but a budget has not been submitted for the building. It was then noted that the University of Iceland is not dangerous to make the company rely on substantial amounts of money from international competitive funds. Especially is this true of a new union that will earn enough reputation in order to become a significant recipient of competitive funds. Criticism is considered to be a lower part of the work being carried out in connection with the degradation of the Organic Institute, but to the treatment of the case, it was found that employees considered themselves to be unsure, in order to be correct, of how that process would be carried out. Social reviews emphasized the importance of ensuring the security of most people in the implementation of the projects produced by the New Creation Centre. Changes in the share support that these factors have not been given sufficient attention when preparing the bill. That suggestion is essential and should be supported. Mr. President. Changes in the majority of the segment aim to improve a bill that was incomplete at the time of the event. Even if we're at least 2 less share, we're going to have to. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, cannot support the bill for reasons that have been attributed here, we support the change in the greater part's proposals because they have fallen to correct the uncertainty caused by the bill. With the bill, governments have not succeeded in promoting innovation as employment mobility. Sets a smaller part of the focus on careful and thought - provoking treatments when it comes to innovation by active involvement in employment and country development in the country's future work structure. Emerging innovation is an important requirement for providing support for the future prosperity of the people of the land. Mr. President. We will also discuss a bill on the Development Fund. Although we represent the Central Party at what point. The employment committee, does not support the reorganization of projects by the New World Translation Centre and the degradation of the Agency at the root of this bill, support the development programme which is necessary to improve under the activities of the fund. The main policy, with the bill, is to add regulations to the relevant fund's specific laws, with minor changes that we represent the Central Party of the Committee as well as the majority of the Committee. As a competitive fund of innovation, a fund of technology plays an important role. I wish for the funds and those who receive the payment of his well - being in the coming days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u39	Mr. President. New births are important. We're a knowledge community, and we've been based on it since we started in Iceland. A significant knowledge is needed to live in a harshly populated country, and it is to be the fundamental premise of all governments to focus on Iceland's innovation at best. This bill is killing the new creation environment in Iceland, slaughtering it. That's not an additional word, Mr. President, and I'll be registraring it in a long case below, primarily by quoting the reviews. I want to believe that the bill is presented with good intentions, but good intentions are not the currency that many politicians want to believe he is. I have to say, it's often that you disagree with the nomads at the Council, and it's all right, but it's rarely that you're afraid. It is clear to all who know that a pot is broken in Iceland's innovation environment and has been a long time. Iceland's innovation center is not a perfect tool. Technology fund is not a perfect device. There's nothing perfect in our innovation environment, and I have to say, that Iceland's innovation environment is actually unprovable if you compare it with most of the European countries. There's something we've often talked about having to fix, and here we have a bill that really does everything upside down to what we should be doing. It would have been possible to start a conversation with the staff of the Creation Centres, talk to the staff of Ranni and Technological Development Fund, talk to staff at sceptical companies, innovation companies and elsewhere, and find out what and how we could fix all the many problems that are present in the innovation environment, thus improving the support fund, entering international cooperation, being in front of these things, instead of throwing everything out as this is done, and somehow planning to start over again, without being exactly how to start over again. It's clear that the highest. A minister would storm off on this journey without knowing what was under it. You can even see it. reports of the collapse of the New World Translation Center in Iceland began to study its exact size rather than rely on the long experience of employees and experts in the field. They were mostly ignored, and they took steps that do not go anywhere. As a simple example, I'd like to mention that chemical analysis was transferred to the Oceanographic Institute. Now I know that knowledge is available in the Marine Research Institute in chemical analysis. There's nobody to argue with, there's no missing. But it must be noted that an institution whose main interest and expertise in marine and marine waters is not fundamentally interested in such things. ablation measurements of metal concrete or toes. It's not within the practice field of the Oceanographic Institute. This is not a criticism of the knowledge that is there, it is quite present, it is quite well - known educational field, but it is critical of the fact that institutions are given tasks that they do not have an interest in and go contrary to their nature and purpose. In this way, and in fact, there are other examples, buried in the construction of innovations without ensuring that there is a clearness before the rest, and at the point of time in Iceland's history when the economy cannot be further damaged. I'm not saying it would be okay to go this exact way if we were in a gnarly swing, for there's a lot about that way. But when 10.4% decrease is in the economy of the pandemic Covid then there must be an idea that it would be nice to stop a bit, to take more careful steps, and perhaps try to build up rather than to tear down. But all of this is done, based on the belief that the solution is to increase investments and reduce services. The fact is, countries, especially smaller countries, need a high level of services for SMEs if they are to survive. I've felt that both the official support bill for innovation and the Technological Development Fund are some kind of Silicondal region in the innovation environment, that it's being all emphasised on some kind of unicorn production at the expense of supporting all the many companies in Iceland requiring e.g. the analysis services of the New Creation Centres or any other service through the existing support network. In the United States, we have been extremely good at setting up companies and developing ideas at a technological level of one to three. When it comes to technological development, it is a nine-point system in which the first stages are simple ideas, but at the top, you have a market product that is valid and have all the ability to do it well on the market. Iceland has done very well in the last few decades during the first three technological development stages. We've been worse in points four to nine. Here it seems that there is a little focus on sections 7 to 9, but at the expense of all means to get there, at the expense of a basic financing support between the first and sixth levels, as far as it goes, and particularly in the country. For one thing, it says, "In the West Man's Islands, " by permission of a president: The study is under the primary objective of the bill, but it is not easy to see that the emphasis on innovation in the region is being discussed in the main subject of the bill. The bill is largely at the establishment of a technology facility, but only innovation in the country's home is being discussed in the report by the bill. This is exactly the point, for it echoes in other critical comments about the bill. I'm going to quote from a long story in the review of Space Iceland because the attitude expressed in this review is something that I can take into consideration, even though the wording may be rather harsh. They're right about everything, Mr. President's permission: ▪ Place Iceland cannot support the progress of the bill. It is badly worked, in opposition to its own declared targets, the timeliness of change is too short, the analysis is too short, the problems intended to solve are simply not related to published measures, are lacking, and, in the opinion of Space Lceland, is simply unforgivable in the time of economic declines to destroy the supporting systems of innovation in this way that is proposed without careful analysis and rapid planning of the new support systems. In short, the Space Iceland bill simply does not consider itself to be an adult, and it is puzzled that such sputum production is put forward with the related work for the legislatures and stakeholders. The damage that has already been done by the Ministry of Development on the Agency's activities because of the carelessness of professional employment and the understanding of responsibility is a major expense to society. A number of employees have already found work elsewhere. The Agency's work has been linked and the policy and future application have been minimal or absent. The progress of the Ministry is irresponsibility of a new scale. Because of the fact that the Minister has promoted national development and support for innovation outside the capital area in this case, Space Iceland wants to point out that the announcement alone and the Ministry's pressure that the Agency's services are not maintained, it is already causing only four of the 20 workers left in the Second Amendment Center, which is related to the support of primary pioneers and reduced to two in the next few days. They were 20 before the Minister's announcement in February. We're out of business in Isafjordur, and we're out of business in Akureyri, and there's no shell in death tanks. The Agency has not been able to recruit staff to meet the avatar escape. While it is easy to tell yourself that sacrifices are only desirable, the problem is that nothing has been done to reduce uncertainty and damage. Sources of the New Creation Centres have been informed that their facilities are only open to them during the month, and new pioneers have not been allowed access. Many look at more than ten times as far as the cost of rent is concerned at an open market. Such a shock to an enterprise in early stages will lead to the failure of any project to overcome the development and development stage. There is no other way to put this matter in the context of the ignorant and weak response of the government to the Covid-19 Depression. The size of action is relative to that in all our neighboring countries. A recession in Iceland is a European record. In addition to the majority of government operations. In the past, the government has chosen economic growth methods and accepted out of a crisis that is unprecedented in other parts of the world. I could keep going, but I'm gonna stay here just to highlight some of these points. It is clear to all who work in innovation that it takes an enormous amount of time to build knowledge. It takes a lot of time to write applications for strength and wait for the distribution. When the principal institution of innovation in Iceland is put into the position to know that it is about to close after some time, it obviously means that all employees immediately go to the job of trying to close things up, don't open more, and do not necessarily get any more strength because they don't know if they will be there or if their jobs will be there. This also applies to the companies who receive services from these companies. When we are talking about a system that depends on steady work over a long period of time, it is obvious that any action aimed at changing must be predictable over the entire period of time. Something that takes two, three years in preparation must not be exposed to some sort of a riot on the first day, which makes everything unclear for many years afterwards. I'd say, even if this bill is dismissed, as I hope it will be, it's just the damage already done to Iceland's innovation environment, just in preparation for the bill so great that it will take years for the innovation environment in Iceland to straighten it out. It's not okay to do things that way. It's a bad bill. It may be said that the goal was good. It may be said that a good mind was started. I want to believe that people in general are working with a good mind, but the results are boring. President. This bill must be turned away before more damage is done. It's just that way. There may be some ideas in the bill of good things, but what combines all the factors is that they are ignorant and vague and based on some kind of handshakes that I do not know whether you can believe to become a reality when nothing in the bill or in the law guarantees that it will be realized. It was now, for example. a few years ago, here was approved by a synopsis proposal for digital structures, and for years, policies on digital development have been under way. How hard is it to shape a digital policy, Mr. President? I don't know. I would have thought it was relatively easy, though, because these carpenters are well - known, and there are nearly 1,500 such carpenters all over the world, and it must be possible to build on that experience. But no, instead of the fact that it all has become clear, there is room for funding, and everyone knows where to go in the next steps, some part of it is created for a handicraft bill, where nothing is clear and clear. It's not just the digital carpenters. It's done everywhere with these bills, through the entire innovation environment. I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the speech, but me and I. A senator sits on a financial and business committee together. That is where we have just handed out the Nite Owl bill and the changes to the work under it. The bill was made as a law and a suggestion to dismiss it as a bill from the government. Same thing. Minister is the minister of consumers and minister of innovation, and this network of transfers is the same level as this bill, i.e. They needed a full course, a vision of the future. First, it is decided to tear down tasks from the Navigator Lab and set to another facility where there was a lack of agreement. Like what? The speaker points out in his talk the bill we discuss here is given a task that they may not be interested in, and it has little to do with the major products already available. I want to ask you why. A senator if he can't agree with me to the highest level. Ministers, both consumers and innovations, which are the same minister, need to think more about strategy and how things should be overdue. It cannot be the goal of reducing and changing institutions. Rather, it must be one of the professional goals and goals that contribute to the public's well - being.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u41	Mr. President. You're absolutely right about what you're doing. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. In fact, it speaks of what has been a fixed policy in the lack of policy with the present government, reducing the number of institutions here and there. The SEC was not allowed to exist as an independent agency. It had to be placed under the Bank of Jehovah's Witnesses. A consumer room was not allowed to exist as an independent organization, so it is transferred, and more institutions are being slaughtered now. This isn't a whole bridge. It's been completely incoherent nonsense. What's so remarkable about this is that rationalizing is always somehow on the way of being manipulated and still being coaxed, spending less money but still higher, being doing things better despite the fact that there's no evidence that that this is the case. I wondered if it would be okay to have a government that is less concerned that the institutions are too many and more concerned that the institutions are subsidized and, in many cases, not fully equipped, that they lack workers, they simply lack the ability to serve their purpose, and that for decades, they have progressively undermined anything called social infrastructure in Iceland. We need to get out of this. We need to turn this around. I'm not saying we have to start 100 more organizations, but at least we have to start building up. This problem has gone completely crazy, Mr. President. I wholeheartedly agree with that. A member of the council that what was done in the Nettorium was ignorant, and what is being done here is madness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u42	Mr. President. This government began by sliding the SEC under the Seal Bank and weakening the Contestant. Even though we in the smaller section have managed to set defensive lines and to reduce the damages of the two government measures, this still became a reality. And the bill is then announced in the series "Do Not Distorte in Aviation, " a one - step process that is made to a microorganization organization without taking the country's forwardership or taking care of it in any way. Then we're going to run an IRS manager under the IRS. So it's all going the same way. This is where we're talking about official support for innovation. Today, when we are in this crisis of employment, all political groups have stressed that we need to get out of it by promoting innovations in all areas, including government operations. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he thinks it's a good time to create this uncertainty, both before the bill, and so on, how the bill is, and how it's thrown into the hands, let me say. Isn't this especially a bad time to create uncertainty in the system when there has been rarely a greater need for innovation and pioneer work and now?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u43	Mr. President. Yes, there has been forever talk about the importance of the Kingdom's balanced role. It's almost time to talk about fluctuation. But it's a really good cliché, and it'd be great if it were practiced. But when we see 1.4% of the population's population's population's largest business road, tourism, as good as on one board, and all the world's economy is involved, there would have been a good idea -- there was the right to stop myself from using profanity, Mr. President - that the state tried to balance this swing, e.g. by perhaps three or four times more days of distribution at the Technical Development Fund, that there was a considerable amount of money suggested, of investing in innovation. To say, Okay, we as a community now look at a great downturn, but we believe in our people. We trust that the ideas of our people are good, and we know that if we emphasize innovation, we will reap richly when we arrive at the end. In the meantime, we've at least created a scene where many ideas can thrive. That would be a good balance. But instead, we look at it. You're right next door. A senator says that this is what is being done. You wonder, " What organization will be next on the program to go under the guillotine of this government? ' I wonder, " Will Iceland's University be laid down next? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u44	President. This is an example of some very bad ideologies, totally bad ideologies. We are putting down an institution full of knowledge within its own ranks, without explaining how much better it will take. In fact, the decision was made to shut down the Creation Center without anyone having an idea of what would happen. It's still ideological after all. Even trying to explain why it is better to replace it. It is the ideologies reflected in the book of Exodus. G., an institution of private stock society. Now there are fewer institutions and one more thing to do. Is it possible to show off: we shrunk institutions, we cut down the system, we cut the booth, etc.? We don't count privates, they're just sides. What kind of ideologies is that? It's a bit of a big ide. It is political ideologies that make a decision without knowing whether the idea is good or not, that is action and appeals because of ideologies, not moisture, not because it is a good idea to change. I'd like to read more about Space Iceland, which is very interesting in this regard. It is presented, and it has been shown in the discussion, by permission of a president: Since a new center is not a perfect institution, it can be replaced. Work on reforming, though, never took place. Part of what was approved at a New Creation Policy Parliament was working on a new creation center. People knew what was wrong and were asking for their improvements. But no, everything was thrown away without anyone knowing what would happen. Since then, excerpts have been made, Ministers' claims that the administrative cost of the New World Society would be applied directly to a novelty project for some magic because all the projects that Neonization Centre was doing for other institutions without administrative costs. Does that mean that there is no value in moving projects from one institution to another? Do we save with some magical administrative cost of doing that? So why don't we all take jobs from half the institutions to the other half of the institutions and vice versa? Then we've given all jobs to other institutions. There is no administrative cost, and we save a lot of government money. Of course not. But there's evidence that a huge amount of money is saved by laying down this institution and bringing jobs to other institutions. Of course, it doesn't work. I'll continue with the review, with President's permission: Although the political environment in which it operates is the main weakness of the New World Power Center, the Space Iceland assessment is that of a new creation center. The government's innovation and employment policy is simply random. It lacks the necessary discipline to control facades and fast - moving thoughts so that it is possible to move ahead in time. There's a real lack of official coordination, policy and policy. Instead, governments have been inclined to develop subsidiary initiatives, not to enjoy active works, and to base ideas and restrictions rather than analysis and clear goals. These tasks are characteristic of the lack of follow-up and lack of tolerance for real development. A recent example is that of Loa ◯ innovations for the region, designed to support innovation, the promotion of employment, and the building of valuables based on intelligent, knowledge, and new skills, on the basis of their own areas. The total distribution is 100 million a year. The value of a couple's house in the capital area is worth it. As a result, pioneers and businesses are required to fight outside the capital area. The amount is so small and the management board so small that it is obvious that the fund will suck more time and cost in the form of a national pioneers than it suggests. Worse yet, the fund does not follow any particular policy, just a cover-up. He is therefore only a new administrative candidate for pioneers and national employment. Of course, you can only celebrate contributions to innovation, but you can be sure that such small amounts will lead to a revolution in industry and innovation. It is incomprehensible, then, why this amount did not just go into the building section of the country where Lóa is meant to give strength, in accordance with each country's policy. In other words, work in the building program that provides funds for building up funds. It is an arrangement to receive such strength. There is an arrangement where these building programs are being developed. Why should we not use what already exists rather than create something new that we really have no idea whether it works, as they say it should work? It is not even an attempt to back it up. In the past few years, we have talked about the future of innovation, that if we are going to work out of the economic low we are in now, which is different from the last where we were finally set up when, or not, to carry over various branches of the community with the restitutions that paid up and over the debt that the state's fund had collected. We don't have anything like that right now. In fact, there are no loans or responsibilities that we can take after ten years or as well as the amount of expenses we contribute to dealing with the epidemic. Therefore, we must build ourselves out of the epidemic, as is said of it, promote valuable things and promote prosperity so that the same thing does not occur in the final collapse, that people fall between ships and docks, and that when the economy returns, not weak foundations, e.g. The gold mines that were in travel services and banks in the past. We here in Iceland are very prone to rely on a so - called whale-refunding economy. A lot of tourists wash up here, and we sink into that possibility. We don't think about self-sustaining, we just think about making as much money on these whales as we can, until it's up and we can't help but crack. We literally make pox. That's why it's been told from the beginning of this epidemic that he'll only be short, the tourism will come back, that we're going to run out and park -- there were 1.5 billion markets for tourists last spring? The government's policy was to wait for the epidemic and to be sure that they have advertised enough for tourists to return to the country at the end of the epidemic, despite the pressures of international infrastructure for tourists and the lack of structure along with the increase. That policy is still valid; just waiting until the epidemic is gone. Then the tourism will come and bring everything back. There's very little evidence to indicate a different course. Sure there's a little bit of innovation. The profits of the government, from 1.5 billion to 3 billion, were doubled. In the meantime, the government provided a contribution of 9 billion to innovation. At the end of the summer, when it became evident that the epidemic was not going anywhere, it was the right amount. 9 billion would have been an appropriate injection into the modern world in Iceland at that point. Instead, it was only 3 billion, and unemployment grew and grew. The government did not respond. If innovation is to be a future, it is not a good idea to throw out the arrangement we have in such a state and have no vision, no suggestion what to do. It is so obvious that it is the wrong way to meet the conditions that were here last spring. In February, shortly before the outbreak struck Iceland, a minister made a decision that may have been undecided that it would be as great as it was later. However, the expectation of the worst is in the hands of the government, hoping for the best. But the best was expected and the best was hoped for. There was not much caution in traveling with governments. It would have been easy to make more money. If the epidemic had done better than watch it, it would not have had to be used fully. It's fine to do that sort of thing. However, as the epidemic drew on, government officials followed one after another. They were never first. That was the course here at the beginning. The need for action was very clear. This also meant that we always needed to respond too late, but not before the need. If we are going to be a newborn country, as has been attempted since the turn of the century, when innovation was due to be a fourth foundation - it was actually going to be a major support to Iceland's commercial life, when the bank wave, all piled up, and the innovation lost. Then came the tourist wave, and the innovation was forgotten. Now, when everyone agrees that the solution out of this situation is innovation and that we need a wide range of jobs in Iceland, not the uniqueness that has been in the world, that's the answer: cash out what we have and have worked. There is no denying that it has worked. I talk about education all the time. The education system needs to be changed, but then it needs to be reasoned that what takes place is better than what is now, because what is now works. It doesn't work as well as we'd like, it doesn't work as well for everyone as we'd like. The same was true of the innovation environment before Ministers decided to throw everything away: It worked. But it is very irresponsible to throw it away without any suggestions, no visions of how innovation will become in a new environment, and in what way it will be better. That's incredibly irresponsible, it's a total mess, tops. Minister. This bill and the dispensing of a greater part of the Generals is just redundant. There's supposed to be a way to get a minister who's gonna get him a mess after he decided to shut down the Creation Center for ideologies, not because it was a good idea, but because of ideologies. I will then say and be very clear: It may well be that this arrangement is better than the arrangement, but it does not excuse the order of events; throwing out what we have before we begin a new organization. Before making any effort, we need to anticipate how a new arrangement will work so that we can compare our new arrangements with our old arrangement. Then we can weigh the pros and cons of change. We are in a place today that is being made up of the transformation of a private partner which is excluded from the law on private societies but the information laws apply to its activities. How is a society different from an institution after all? What kind of labels do you think we're doing when ideologies are at the top of the world? Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers are shrinking? What kind of labels is it really when the booth is reduced by running out of an institution and turning it into a private participant to receive information laws? Really? I don't understand. I don't understand the direction the board is taking. As noted in the reviews, this has affected the knowledge and activities that have existed in the Neon sector, a center of creation, and the whole country. Granted, things had to be done and done better, but obviously the decision was vandalism, just a simple vandalism. Today's work is very different from that of the decision, and it has not yet been fixed. We're in this crisis right now until these laws come true and actually until they are working, which also takes time. This is an intermediate situation that has lasted since February last year and will last for several more months, probably until the beginning of the next year or something like it. In two years, the innovation environment will be in terms of pioneers in the first to third stages, which is the case. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy talked about earlier, in the lamotte of paralysis, considering the situation in which the minister's decision was made. That is a huge responsibility in exactly what we are in right now, since we want to emphasize innovation. We need this help to get all the ideas into the benefits that are going on around the country. As noted earlier, the percentage of approved applications in the Technical Development Fund last fall 8%, reminds me. That is the difference between what was done and what could have been done. Only 8% of what could have been done was done. For one thing, we have 12.5 percent unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u45	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. He wondered, as many more senators do, why is something new to be made when it is not known if it is better than already. The analysis and analysis have not been made and the case has not been considered. I want to ask you why. A senator feels supported by innovation outside the capital area. In fact, with regional council members, there have been a great march through the country into this arrangement and a long period of uncertainty as to what would happen to the new world's headquarters. 100 billion expected. K. fund to promote innovation outside the capital area, but the rules clearly indicate that the majority of the State or rural unions are not responsible for those who gain strength. However, it is the rural communities that are a little more suitable for pioneers and innovations throughout the country. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it would have been better to support national parish programmes by 100 million. A hundred million may be small when changing projects, but would not this not only have contributed to the better - looking application plans for the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u46	A respectable president. Yes, that would have been the simple way. Take, for example, a suggestion I suggested for about one day. A year ago, in the first pang of the epidemic, 50 million additional to the Fragile settlements, which were extremely important and all responded very well and was part of the changes made by the more part or the changes made to the entire budget at the end of the year. We need innovation all over the country. As noted in the Technical Development Fund, applications outside the capital area are very few, but this is, in spite of the relative agreement, of the same number of applications from the country. The problem there is, in fact, a number of applications rather than necessarily their quality in relation to applications from the capital area. Something else I had. paritaprevir Friðbjörg The Living of Elíasdóttir's daughter stated that this foundation of the fourth industrial revolution was a ethic proposal for digital carpenters that centers on the availability of all the people throughout the country into digital carpenters. I'm coming from there, with ideas of improving the innovation environment that needs to be built up all over the country. Yes, the obvious way would have been to take advantage of the existing institutions, or ways, of success, rather than throw them out and replace them with something new and then try to get capital money to the right places. It's an extra management business to break down and build up, especially at times like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u47	Mr. President. Hv. In his talk about lack of policy development and lack of follow-up and evaluations of the changes, a senator was mentioned. As I picture it, when it's gone into such a change, it had to be clear how to measure their results and what to aim for in the evaluation, how to measure the results. It doesn't look like it's done to me and in the last words of the Committee wing at the time. Councilmen, Elíasdóttir Fräða Furfífífjörður Elisdóttir and Hrafn Hjörn Fjörður Gunnarsson, who are a minor part of the employment committee, who write the committee's opinion on this bill, say, with permission of the president: Unfortunately, it has long wanted to burn in Iceland that in decision making, both follow-up and assess the consequences of decisions as noted in several national assessments... Then, by permission of a president, a number of foreign observations are listed: The decision of the Minister to put down a new creation center without any intervention creates the very risk of poor and unremarkable management of public capital. Now you're sitting down. A senator at night. A legal committee, and I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the financial side. In his talk, he mentioned that projects had been assigned without their financial support for managing the administration. Are they ingesting, or are they being cut down by this move?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u48	A respectable president. That's a very good question. I made it clear that assignments have moved. They followed the funding given to projects in the New Creation Center, but not really the administrative cost on top of them. In the introduction to the report with this bill, it is said that the over-reaching and flexibility will increase so that public funds will best be used to the projects it is provided in ◯ by various measures here, ◯ be developed and ◯ set to set up and this and that. But I kept asking, " How much money is it saving to reduce overage? ' There is nothing like response, but the government has certainly improved a lot of money in innovation, e.g. with funds to deal with the epidemic, but you can't see what part of it is spent on the chief construction of the Newborn Centers. It's just that we just said, "We're adding a lot of money." Is that all new money? Is that part of the cover-up money? I have no idea. That question is never answered, since it is very obvious, as I described in my speech, that when jobs with administrative costs are moved from one institution to another, the increased administrative costs of the new agency, or the private firm, are not relevant. It also carries the same cost of accounting and stuff like that. No one has answered that simple question: How is this a better arrangement than what was? How's it cheaper? How is it more efficient? There is no answer. That's what's bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u49	Mr. President. I couldn't bear to come up here because of my speech. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. We obviously agree on a lot of things in this end, such as why. A senator came in answer to what he was doing. paritaprevir In the beginning of this terms of digital carpenters, our Harðardóttir, Oddný G.. It required that there be a future vision and a basis for the carpenters to work on. A digital carpenter is an amazing phenomenon, as we have discussed here before. It's a place where you can actually come and do whatever you want, whatever you want. You can find some way to perform it in a digital plant. I think it is extremely important that digital carpenters grow where they are and also ensure access to them in many parts of the country. It was the idea of our assembly at the time that was adopted by the entire U.S. Congress. There is still no such plan as requested and, as agreed by the Senate, and unfortunately, its signal is not found in this bill, although there is certainly an increase in money to the carpenters this year at least, and that I'm due for the next three years. I want to go inside. A senator will determine whether he would not have wanted to see a clearer view of the carpenter's activities. Shouldn't it have been a chance to put the carpenters in place for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u50	A respectable president. The simple answer is yes. It is shown in the report that digital architecture will be developed. It should have been long already done in the first place. Me and what. A senator made a structure and access arrangement for digital carpenters, and I thought that we were very modest in suggesting that we may not fully encourage to take the step to the finish. The first step would be to reach everyone who was in high school, that would be such a logical first step, and not too big, and people wouldn't say it was too much and you can't do it all at once. But no, the council accepted this council resolution with open arms and added, adding access to basic students, greatly increasing the scope of that convolutation proposal. It was wonderful how the council responded to that decree. Like what? A senator said she was approved by all the voters. Even so, nothing has really happened because of that suggestion, not even now. During all this terms, we have waited for the next financial program that would show handsomely how governments intend to respond to a unanimous decision made by the entire council not only to the things we are doing. Councilmen made exactly the additions that the council and the administrative body participated in adding that proposal. It was in my opinion that it was a relatively great showdown on the part of the government, to show it and then not to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u51	Mr. President. Hv. A senator talks about a show game, but one of the things I wanted a little bit to enter in the second answer is a lack of vision. Certainly we have a relatively recent innovation policy that I think is a reason to renew or go through again. It is really remarkable that although more of the employment committees certainly refer to it in their committee program, it is, if I recall correctly, little or no mention in the bill. - Once, please. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator corrected me. She's a committee once. So it's Iceland's new creation policy that you would have thought would be the foundation of the bill, but it's named once. I think that suggests that it may not be a good basis for the changes being suggested in the bill. The work of the Committee made it clear that there was not much analysis that laid the basis for this decision. So I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council whether such diagnostic work would not have been necessary in order to improve the quality of this decision and bring in a better job. And I'd like to go inside too. A senator after his opinion that the Ministry has now gone a long way to cut down a New Creation Center and has actually been laid down before the council's position. What does it say? A senator of such tactics?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u52	President. I'd like to start by correcting one thing, it was a New Creation Center that was once named in the Neo-creation policy, I was just messing with it. It's a very important thing, really. When you're working on making something new, we'd like to do some research first. It does not have to be too precise, may be largely laid and at least put in place The big lines. There's nothing like that around here that we're dealing with. We can't, when Minister informs us of the collapse of the Second Creation Centre, which of the big lines follows, since the potential details could then be drawn into the picture. We don't even have it, we don't even have basic work to do. As I say, the New Creation Center is simply thrown out of the window, and then it starts to wonder, " What are we going to do? That's a very irresponsible stand, like why. A senator, before the council has expressed his opinion of whether it is a good idea or not. It is the identifying mark of the majority of civilization here at the council and an example of how the council is a time - set. The government's decision had already been made for its members, which have a greater part in the council, and they should only enforce the decision whether it is a good idea or not. We'll see how we explain that this is really the right conclusion, i.e. just as much as possible to swallow it at least. We're in a ideological situation where the evidence counts, not as a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u53	A respectable president. I am signing an opinion of the 1st small part of the employment committee on this matter, along with Friðbjörg Frinífjörður, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, who made a good account of our position earlier. I'm going to start by saying the positive things I have to say about the work of the Committee and the work of the greater part, especially in this case. While it may be quite a business committee, as with other committees of the council, that more part might take power as a matter of course, it was not the case at all in the treatment of this case and, in fact, an exemplary example of how the greater part was involved in the less part of the discussion. The head of the committee, in particular, made every effort to accept the views they considered possible to accept and improve the situation in a way that was possible. Yet, there are limits to how much you can do to improve this matter without simply starting over. It is not to blame for the majority of the employment committee. Of course, it is to the highest source of the bill. Minister. It became evident rather early in the treatment of the situation that this was not a very clear and clear thought behind the collapse of Iceland's New Creation Centre. And as the discovery grew, when asked for diagnostic work or the like or what basis for this decision and subsequent decisions, the analysis was not there or was not in such a form that you yourself, at least not the person being here, are making such dramatic changes on the basis of one alone. It was simply not too widely diagnosed. Now, I hope we don't have to count how sensitive it is to make a big mistake in Iceland's innovations at this point in the development of the Covid-19 pandemic and the resistance we all want our nation, Iceland, to reach. New creations play a key role there, and it is important that we do well. And it made more part of a business committee in my opinion to the extent possible. But there remains the very essence of the matter itself. There is a faulty thought in the bill itself, which is the point of origin. Now I have no record of where that idea was born exactly for these actions. But the feeling I'm getting in this case is that some experts have met, who may well know, who, as some have, had the opinion, should be laid down. That was the input. There was a requirement for thinking about something else, and then they began to wonder what might be done instead. With that bill coming up, probably after a lot of jobs, I'm not going to belittle it. When the input is incorrect, the result may be illogical. That leads me to the next point I would like to discuss in particular. It's staff of the New Arts Center of Iceland. When agencies are laid down or made significant changes in them, it is normal and well-known, and it is not wrong for workers to consider their work environment, security, and such activities. But in this matter it was very clear from all conversations with the staff of Iceland's New World Translation Centre that it was not the first thing they were worried about, but because they weren't listening to them when it came to criticism of the innovation environment in Iceland. There are many forms of criticism of the new world in Iceland, including the activities of the New World Translation Centre of Iceland. The competition for the Agency with its own clients is one example. It would have been possible to use the Agency's knowledge of early stages in order to find some other solution that would not automatically cause the creation of the Agency to subversive. But the discussion was little or nothing, and the ministry's viewpoint seems to have been that the only thing these blessed employees thought about was their own security. And there they lost the opportunity to make use of the available experience and to some extent remain at the Agency's office right away at the beginning. That would have been a wise and responsible, respectable president, and it would also have been part of a complete diagnostic work. But that wasn't done, a respectable president. When it comes to considering how the bill came to be followed, prominent criticism from managers and visitors was given the fact that in a report, there were some excellent ideas, such as support for innovation in the region that are not found in the prime text itself. Now the more part is going to fix it in some way, and it's a good thing, but it says something about how this case has been thought in my opinion because it's another point that's been criticized over the years, i.e. that people in the country do not really have access to the emerging environment as we do in Reykjavík. It also showed that it was not clear how that goal should be achieved better by this bill than by a previous one. Sadly, the answers are a little, so there is much about the mind, but there is little about real solutions. It is also worth referring to early support, free advice available at Iceland's New Creation Center. In what sense it still exists after all, lately, because of this bill, I don't know. It is absolutely fundamental to my opinion that people who get an idea and plan to create something new should have free access to some kind of counseling and guidance, although it was only about how to start a business and how to apply for grants and such things. The idea in the bill was to shut it down because there are private people on the market. And it's true, it's the people in the private market who are giving this advice to pay. But the fundamental problem in this approach is that while the project may still be just an idea, a new project has money at its early stage. That's what I think about an interesting attitude, I must say. I find it overly strange that when people get an idea, before they even know whether they're over a good head in the economic sense or how to use it and before they know what strength is available, the person should go out to find out where these things are, to know where to apply and how to do it. This may not be a problem for people who are not accustomed to having money between their hands. But, Mr President, we do not want innovation in Iceland to depend entirely on people having money between their hands, nor on their education. I might say more about it later. The majority of the cells respond by establishing what I recall to be a novel electronic solution that has fallen to meet this problem and thus give complete support to the priming stages. I'm not necessarily against that idea, maybe it's just a good idea, maybe even it can be applied better than it already was, but we don't know. We know that there was and is demand for what was already there. We know that it will be removed by the bill, and we know that this will be replaced, in response to that decision in the bill. But I doubt that if it hadn't been for this middleway, to eliminate the service, the acceptable guidance at first, then what the Ministry would suggest would have been a novelty. I seriously doubt it, if I'm to say exactly as it is. And while it's probably an excellent idea, it's still a Band-Aid, with all due respect for the share. This is an attempt to prevent the most damaging effects of removing this conditional support and guidance at the outset. This is just an example of what has been going on in this case. I'd also like to share the second minor opinion, which is the same story. I don't think there are many of us who dream of the story I'm describing. But I also say that I wish I could have supported this bill. I wish I could support this bill, but it's simply based on the wrong substance and the rest is in harmony with it. Then the technology site that will be set up. It's an idea I'm not against in myself. However, there has been concern that the management plans of this facility are unfortunate. Then I go back to the condition we are in right now at this point, in the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic impact. By laying down Iceland's New Creation Centre and setting up this technical facility, there is the inevitable intersecting situation that exists today at the time when we need to have a clear structure for innovation because they will need to enter the support program very soon. I'm afraid it won't, but, of course, I hope it's going well. I hope it's all wrong, all of this concern. But I don't have much faith in it if I'm supposed to say it right now. I'm afraid I think I'm right about this bill and those who criticize it. It is good, though, for a word, at least, to strengthen innovation in Iceland. That's what they agree on. In fact, they agree that they are going to promote innovation. Why, then, can we find no further cooperation? Why can't our analysis work just be good? I must also say, as I mentioned earlier, that although various criticisms have developed over the years in Iceland's innovations, I have not yet encountered any problem that requires the establishment of a New World Center. You can change institutions, you can change arrangements, you can change the amount. There I come to my final point, which I think expresses the attitude, unfortunately, too well. On one side, the government boasts that there are billions of new creations, something new, good if that's true and true. If you understand correctly, it is sometimes that you do not fully understand what is said here, even though it is in very clear English. However, according to tradition, some of the yellow root in this matter is to save some money by means of this decomposition. We listened to a talk earlier, better than the person I am giving, that the attitude is not to be controlled. Besides the illogical conclusion, there won't be any cost yet. As an example of what was clearly not thought of in the construction of the bill or its contributions, the tools used in research today, very large equipment that take very much space and that had to be moved into the depths, probably the most expensive tenet in the country, I think, without looking up the numbers. It's very obvious how bad this is thinking, I think. Was that not expected? Wasn't that supposed to cost something? Shouldn't that be a problem? Of course it's a bit of trouble, a respectable president, a lot of it's a lot of trouble and cost. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I hope it's wrong what we critics of this case say, but I'm afraid it's not. I think if this works out well, it'll be a great deal of luck because, of course, we're going into situations now that are unpredictable in nature, i.e. where we are in the pandemic as well as how it will affect the economy and when this pandemic is over. Just at the end, I'd like to mention one thing that has been pointed out and, in fact, could be misunderstood in my case, pointing out in this context of an institution called Space Iceland, which gave a very detailed review of more dozens of pages. I must admit that I haven't read it all from cover to cover, just the window in it. It is a misunderstanding that innovation takes place only by itself or that the innovation system is in place to meet the current demand. That's a misunderstanding, a respectable president. The design itself and its incentives create the demand. Most important, we have to remember that innovation is investment, and this I don't think there is any disagreement. We should not view investments that can be reasonably certain that over time, we will pay many dollars as a clean cost. It's a bit of the attitude you sense in the bill when it comes to increasing efficiency by putting down some institution and setting up others, actually a business, and it's to save some money. A respectable president. The important thing is that there is enough support. And it's okay for that support to be made from a treasure. It's okay. It's okay. It is an investment, and now it is the time for them to lie down. Now is the time to do more and be more ambitious in the group than you can see in the bill we are here on. Now I'm going to try to break the lie that I'm finishing my case, a respectable president, and keep it. But I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will eventually be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u54	Mr. President. I couldn't pass by coming up here and thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for particularly good cooperation in this 1st section. It is in nature that we agree on this matter. In fact, it is a little fun that we too have been able to agree that the work on the committee as such was good in these matters. The conversation was good. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, I think it would be a good example, and it would be good to have such a good conversation about other matters at the council. Not that I would have wanted to make much more basic changes to the bill than are done, but I also use smaller parts. I just wanted to take advantage of this opportunity to talk to you about it. Senator on the bill. Hv. A senator entered many very interesting points. A minister talks exactly, like what he's doing. A senator referred to his talk, to simplify the system. Simple it up, clear procedure, and return money to state funds, save money. The cost of innovation is being saved. But isn't it just the problem that with this bill, and because of the way it's done, we'll actually see that there's an increasing level of misunderstandings, an increase in cost, with a government fund, and a little less with pioneers? And do we not see a complex musculoskeletal system where there are more people to look for and more funds to spend time on, hoping to get strength?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u55	A respectable president. In short, I believe that it will be at least in the near future. At this point, when we need to get ideas on how to use it, ideas that are in the community, from people who may be between employment opportunities - not with visible job opportunities or who see the need to become unemployed for some time - but with ideas that might turn into something. From people who may or may dare to take risks now that they otherwise would not take because they have more time to do so or because circumstances have changed suddenly or because they can with support. It's the people we need to get ahead of ourselves to use these ideas that are all kinds of things, not just in the technical sector, but throughout all the fights we know. But it is good for the system that we now have that it is possible to do. You can ask someone you know, or some company that's been supported, the benefits and problems of talking to a New World Center, what are the chances of real support, etc. It won't be possible now, at least in my opinion, for at least a year and a half, simply because these institutions are being replaced and the experience of the clients from the system is not really available. Suppose this is going very well, where should a person look to understand the system we're about to install? Even if it's something simple for a government fund or to the authorities, I feel completely alone that this is going to cause a big deal to get in the way of the clients. That's where we need the simplicity. This doesn't have to be simpler at the Ministry of Ministry. Secretary of finance, of course, though it is not worse to simplify it there. This needs to be simple for the clients. It's been completely forgotten here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u56	Mr. President. Hv. A senator entered an interesting point in his opponent, which is the situation we are today with far too much unemployment, unusually unemployment for Iceland. But the point is, during the last crisis, the crisis was just that a New Creation Center started a tremendous creative project that was built into helping people create ideas, both to develop ideas and also to make them reality. That task actually produced an amazing number of work to do. Many of us were in a travel service that proved to be our survival from our last crisis. But I think there is a great lack of such projects in this crisis, if we are to talk about a crisis, or in this difficult situation we are in right now. You need this person to take a little step and say, " Do you have an idea, would you like to create a job? ' We're here, come to us, and we'll help you create them. That's why I think that's why. A senator entered a very important point. The question is, Are we losing this opportunity by shutting down the New World Translation Center when we might have been more likely to have settled in our work? Of course we need to change, we need to make adjustments. But instead of laying it down, would we not have had to rely on increased support for this environment?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u57	A respectable president. I think there is a great danger of us losing out on opportunities like this. I remind you of the words of Space Iceland's representative at our meeting. It is a misunderstanding that involves the survival of problems in itself for a new creation. It needs support, it has to be an environment that puts it under control, otherwise the shock will just get damaged. I hope I'm not speaking too much of that word, but I believe it. I believe now there is a real risk that the experience in the innovation environment, including those of the New World Translation Centres of Iceland, is looking beyond this new legal arrangement that we're going to set up, we're going to find out, because of the way it's been done. I've spoken to staff of the World Health Centres inside and outside of the General meetings. There's one mind among those I've talked about being things that could change. These are people who want to work in innovation, find it an exciting environment, like to see these opportunities become useful and flourish, have their own independent ideas that I don't all know how to share because I don't have this expertise, and I don't have these members in general. That's why I'd like to use that staff's knowledge. Therefore, it is so bad that this tour is actually initiated by the executives even before the bill has been established. This is so devastating because even though the bill would be taken down here in the Senate hall, the damage is still so great, just by starting the road right away. I can't speak for the staff of Iceland's New Creation Centre, but if I was an employee in this situation, I'm not sure that I'm too excited to try the new arrangement, considering this. [[The president calls.]] But of course, I hope it's tempting, of course, I hope that as much of this knowledge continues and continues to be new in the new arrangement, and, of course, I hope it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to ask you why. A member of Congress whether he knows the financial and economic publications, which are the Office's guidance on how to transfer projects between institutions, how to unite and submerge organizations, i.e. what steps to take. It refers to the first step to take before making a decision. It should begin with reviewing the position and molding the future vision, setting clear goals on the change, and then selecting criteria, looking at options, detecting obstacles, and discussing opinions. More important, change should be done quickly so that uncertainty does not overtake people. You can think of the highest. The minister of innovation and consumers has not looked through this booklet before being assigned an assignment from the Navitator Institute to make this change in the matter of the New World Translation Center that we are discussing here. This publication highlights the importance of caring for the human factor. Hv. A senator enters the human program and how the workers could have been used in the process of making changes. Counts 'em out. A senator at the highest. Ministers have turned to this financial and economic instruction booklet?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u59	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't know if the Minister has looked it up. But on the basis of the meaningful definition of why. The senator's testimony is that there should be some sort of diagnosis to begin with and then quickly implement the change, and based on my experience in considering this case, I might imagine a minister had examined it, but then perhaps it misunderstood the purpose and felt that the analysis was about to fit the box and have some documents dealing with the decision. They certainly do exist, but they are not analyses that lead to this conclusion. There is something that people feel is wrong with the present innovation environment. What is always missing is: How do we avoid the problems we face with this particular solution? That's the step that's missing all the time. So maybe it was the worst part of the story. A minister of what was left in this analysis, or he thought there was some box in which you just clicked and finished the case. But, of course, there is a purpose in this. As for the fast - moving changes that I find logical, I have to admit that I'm just hanging out at the Senate Hall earlier and hoping to wake up. A senator did not understand it so that I was laughing at her speech. I laughed because this is certainly going to happen fast, but although in a hurry, it is under way that these changes are being made by the executives before the law is finished, in a profit - making process with a bill needed, and in the council it is under considerable publicity. So I guess the thought was that to do this quickly, it would be best to start and then see if it was a good idea. But that's a lot of good, I suppose, a respectable president. Of course, I'm saying this with their heads in line that I don't know. But I find these emphasis interesting if I try on what I know from this language.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u60	Mr. President. Like what? A senator knows that this change, the debate over it, and the shock, has caused a feeling of dissatisfaction and even an anchor among those who have been involved in innovation, at least ... throughtheland. And when you're about to make these changes, it says in the manual that I just think it's pretty good and worth looking and applying for such changes, whether you're uniting or moving organizations or building institutions, it's so important to increase your staff's solidarity with the changes and to arouse your interest in the future vision and the goals you're looking for. That's where I think there's a really broken pot. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot agree with me, as well as whether this is not an extremely bad time to root out in this organization all together now that we especially need to think that there will be efficiency in innovation projects. Not to be delayed due to some intermediate state and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u61	A respectable president. The tragedy in this indication is that the staff of the New Creation Centres made it clear what it was willing to do in order to share their experience. That's what's boring about watching this. If we talk about looking at the human factor, that's what it is. A senator asked about it, as if no one upstairs in the Ministry thought that people working there were thinking of something other than their own security, and there was probably something to worry about, which is all right. It is all right to try hard to keep people from doing their job. It's just so embarrassing when the call was about listening to these people about solutions in innovations, what these people are experts in, and they know well that the system is not perfect, they know well that there are things you can do to improve in Iceland's Creation Center because they've suggested it before. But they could not be used. That's exactly where I think the human factor has been forgotten. If a minister or the people who made this bill had first thought of the staff of the Neo-creation centres as something else - now I may be unreasonable - and something more than numbers on paper that would somehow have to deal with rather than that there were people there; that every number there represented a person who worked in the environment, would have opinions, experience, knowledge, and exactly enthusiasm and interest in the subject... If there is something that we must agree on being a key figure in innovation, it is at least some kind of enthusiasm and type of interest in the subject. It's very good together, it's novelty, it's enthusiasm, it's interesting. I would have thought that just by looking at the human factor, it would have been possible to make much better use of the situation. But this was not done, and it is unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u62	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a bill and an opinion of official support for innovation and a bill on development funds. It's been a very interesting discussion and it's really, I have to say, a meaningful discourse that has been given on what the government is really doing in this case. Then I'm talking specifically about support for innovation. I'd like to start by saying that in the case of the Technical Development Fund, we are. The members of the Central Party, who are on the pro board, me and the other. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ísafasunsson, on the committee list for the simple reason that we came together to conclude that it was being cut and taped something in the current law, so we felt that it was worth supporting, but the bill for official support is not as much at all pleased with us. Hv. paritaprevir In his speech, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzoff made an excellent point when he spoke to the committee party 2. My section, and in reality, it may not be a great deal of improvement. But when I listened to the talks of other senators earlier, I felt that I needed to open up, really just to join in with most of the speakers. When this bill was scheduled in the fall, we had a meeting with the staff of the Creation Centres and others, and they were deeply concerned about this bill and because they had asked about analysis work and other matters but had not received any answers and did not realize what route the minister and Ministry was in these matters, as the main concern seemed to be to put down a New Creation Centre and to form a private body without any moisture or a piece of paper. It has just been said that it is quite surprising to set off such a road, especially at very delicate times, such as today's pandemic of Covid-19, and in itself we do not know much about what the immediate future will be. The situation in society and in life is very delicate. Why is there so much effort to contribute anything that is yet to give all the evidence for what is behind, unless there is a desire to lay down the Agency to establish a private partner? In fact, it has to be said that the changes that have come from the greater part have improved, but they are more or less some primary decay in large cracks and do not condent any object in general. You can also say that you have had no idea or anything about what would happen and if this is a law. In fact, I have to say that it was quite surprising that it had come to this place, and it was quite interesting when I heard one member of the council say before that the Allied Council was actually just a label agency and it's happened before. But I certainly don't want the Council to be. A public conference is to be a seminar where we should tear things apart, analyze them, and then come to a conclusion. But it may be the thought of someone behind this, that it can come through so that it looks like we're here at the Council are just employees of the CDC. I totally agree that a lot of agreement is about strengthening innovation. We are living in a time of great technological advancement. It's so fast that sometimes what you learn today has become out - of - date tomorrow. I say for myself, as for computer advances, that the saying of an old teat is hardly appropriate anymore because I often learn the most about what my children teach me in the world. The senators who have spoken before me, the most members of Porta, who are skilled in technical matters that they are sometimes ahead of their future, and that's only fine with my opinion, have given fine talks on this matter. I'd like to rephrase a review as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishunda quoted from, which is in the committee's opinion. She's from one of the guests who came to a meeting. It has to be said, as it is, that most guests who came to meetings have felt this way all the time. We've been in many meetings, long meetings, had many visitors, and you always ask yourself, " Will they keep doing this? ' The guest's name is Kristján Leósson, and he says, with the permission of a president: Unfortunately, the current employment and innovation bill for publicisation support for innovation, on the same basis, is signed, prepared without adequate diagnostic work on the provision of public capitals to R& they, without adequate comparisons with a comparable system in other countries, without adequate analysis of the potential for the planned changes in the technical research programme for the future, without having adequate attention to other factors in the activities of the relevant research centres of the industry than those involved in the emerging environment, without analysis of the potential for Iceland's research opportunities and without a plan for specific support in the field to maximise the progress of public research and innovation in the future. Signed feels that it would be best to postpone the planned bill until the results of such diagnostic work are available. I have not seen any conclusions of the diagnostic work and not the speakers who have discussed this before, so I call for a much better job to be done, a diagnostic work to be done, and the reasons needed to perform such a big operation. V.E.G. President. I'm finally going to say, as I said earlier, that we must not make mistakes at this time. Of course, we must never make a big mistake here at the High General although it certainly happens, but in these delicate times when we have to make the right decisions, especially in innovations, since the development of the land depends largely on the taking of correct steps in innovation, we need to be very careful, very careful. I'm gonna let it be my last word.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u63	President. Thank you. A senator for his extraordinary interest and good report that Piratars are ahead of his future. I love it and thank you. A senator very much. In an all - time board of committees. A senator is written to review only the comments of Kristján son Leósson, read from earlier in his speech, on these adequate diagnostic work, controlled work, cost analysis, etc. You can say that there's a bit of demand, I'd like to put it that way, to work all this work for something as suggested here, to replace this institution, a New World Society, and replace it with a private partner, although I agree, of course, that it needs adequate diagnostic work. What, then, is adequate analysis and such? That's exactly what we need analysis work. To begin with, some diagnostic work is required for us to start by asking how the reasons for this proposal work, so that I do not go all the way out to tell me what adequate diagnostic work is because it is possible to go quite far into that journey before the first steps are taken. In fact, the work that is available can be overcreated. Sometimes you want to plan which way you are going and take the first steps with adequate diagnostic work so that you do not do more. That's all I want to ask. A senator: Based on the reviews and jobs of the Committee, what was thought to be an adequate diagnostic for such a case?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, it may be difficult to say what is adequate diagnostic work, I agree with that. But the thing is, I haven't heard any answers about any diagnostic work, so they say. During those long meetings with these great visitors, and with all the talking and the new ones you heard in the fall, all sorts of words for something that doesn't exist, but could make absolutely beautiful names, you know, that the situation is almost the same today. However, as I noted earlier, the changes in the majority of the items have taken steps in the direction of improving the situation. It is, in fact, difficult to make up for something that has not been built before. The savings I talked about earlier may be completely in vain because it lacks the railing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u65	President. Yeah, I think it's a very good description of this problem, but there's no frame behind it. It's going on this trip before you can figure out what the bill looks like. Before we figure out what to do, we have a decision to lay down a New Creation Center. To be honest with that, it happens very often in the political state that there are criticisms of some government decisions that there are not enough diagnostic work to be done. But it is so obvious in this case that it is not there, and the small things available could not be classified as analysisal in any way, is really after explanatory in trying to make the claims of a minister to something that is in the way of the truth, i.e. this will save the building of a new creation center, despite the shifting of projects to other institutions, as well. We are not answered by what the new administrative cost is for moving, or whether it is easier for those seeking the innovation service to approach it now when it has even more than one place. It is entirely lacking in explaining to us this stream of funding for new creation projects that the government takes the initiative to promote innovation. Where do the funding go, by which means - application programmes, crash sites, and the like - before these changes take effect, and how will these changes change after these changes become meaningful? [[The president calls.]] What is the difference between the original amount in the previous arrangement and the conclusion in the later arrangement? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u66	V.E.G. President, me. These are good questions that I cannot answer when it comes to funding. Hv. A senator is a member of a budget board, and I've heard what I've heard a lot of times. A senator is calling for a demonstration of the flow of capitals in the various issues. There must be absolutely evidence in this case, in the nonexistent diagnostic work. That's why I join the senator. Actually, I couldn't do that before, my chief. President, to the highest. A minister spoke extensively that this case would be effective for the region. The visitors of the country that have set up the committee do not recognize it, recognize it in this bill, and do not find evidence or analysis of what is to be done for the country's advantage and point out that there were tools or circumstances to build on the land so that it could be done better in the country. I'm sure there's a lot of money involved that now is the money in doing things most of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We've just settled here at the Council and made a law, say those who agreed on that bill, about the Navitors lab, where assignments are being taken from the Navitors lab, including... To the House and Civilization Agency. The consumer groups described, for example. in their reviews of this and did not know that in any other country there was some institution such as a Housing and Managing Agency that provided mortgages and would also oversee the implementation of law-enforcement control of corporate instruments, and it can be added that now a DG and Manting Institute is also under the control of toys and slangations. This bill is still to add a different task, which is to assign to the Housing and Mobilization Organization to oversee the new competitive fund for construction and mobilization research. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he's not worried about that, like me, that the emphasis on the construction of the Houseland Institute will not be certain? The projects are so big, they're so different, and they're so little combined. Is it not possible for some project that does not approve of the creation process to be overlooked, such as Monitoring when other larger projects, in the opinion of the Agency, are under the control?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný Harðardóttir daughter for that answer. I remember this matter of the transfer of the National Institutes of Human Rights to Houses and Civilization Institute and the concerns that were on the other side of something that did not belong to that ideal institution. I'm not really an expert on anybody, no more than a Housekeeping and Engineer Institute, but I think this is a good question because it may be said that the senator is referring to the fact that at that job, it wasn't careful enough to be done. That's what I'm saying. I remember talking about it at that point. All this type of work, a transfer between companies or institutions, must not be just because it's just that it has to be for some particular reason and move to the people under it. I don't think I can really answer it any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u69	Mr. President. I'm thinking that these bills, both the bill we're discussing here and now, and what was done last week on the Navitors lab, are just underpriests. Both cases are burned to the point where there is no future vision, and there is uncertainty, that will be done and done. In this case, there is an intermediate situation that could reduce efficiency when we need it just to believe that the management is efficient with regard to innovations of various types. At any rate, the government is speaking that it is the innovation that should get us out of the crisis, and I think all members of Congress agree with that with the government. But I'd like to ask why. A senator as a member of the national body how he likes the decision to support innovation outside the capital area. I would also like to ask him if it might have made more sense in this position and only better, instead of setting up another fund to apply for people who live outside the capital area, who want to start innovation projects, to support the good - looking application programmes of the country. Would that not help you when you stand up?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u70	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator again for the answer and agree that innovation is especially needed in these times. Therefore, it would have been better to wait with all the changes until we had reached smoother waters, as I said in my speech, and not to interfere with the arrangement as is done in this case, which, as many times have shown, completely underestimated any work that can convince a man that this is all right. As mentioned in the question of why. A member of the country and, as I said before, could well have been strengthened, for example. a national application schedule and other areas already available in a country to use the existing tools and to put capitals in it for power, to get the wheels to spin. It is absolutely crystal clear in this work that all the guests, or I say most of the people who came to represent the country did not find any basis for this or anything in this matter of interest to the country. So I just agree with you. A senator to gain strength from this fund would probably have been the right handshake now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u71	Mr. President. As noted in the current debate on this bill, which has now been introduced to the council to 2 Corinthians. ... then it's been severely criticized, and I allow myself to join them. I'm not going to go over the opinion of my 1st, but I'm going to sign it. Councilmen Friðbjörg Fridjörg of the Elíasdóttir of Elias and the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. They have both spoken in the discussion today and have brought up what they feel is lacking in these changes and how they were successful. However, in particular, I would like to mention what they point out, that this time point is extremely unfortunate to have uncertainty about the system, for it has rarely been as much a need for support in innovation as a country's pioneers, they say in their members' list of committees. And they will continue, with president's permission: ▪ In the context of how far the Ministry has gone to lay down the Agency before the will and approval of the Parliament makes it difficult to take steps back, disappear from the decision, and start the course at the right start. This is a serious criticism of the European Commission, which does not await the order of the legislature, but the Commission, of course, operates on the council's behalf and is to carry out what the council says to do, but not vice versa. This can be criticized and then some other factors, including some other factors. how to support the country and that it is made something new before verifying that it is better than already. In my earlier words today, I mentioned a brochure available in the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs that was designed to remind me of 2008, but I may not be correct in that number. This brochure contains information on what steps to take in order to combine institutions or to transfer projects between institutions or to lay down institutions and how to behave in that process. It will make it very clear that the change is well prepared. I think it's obvious that preparation is truly lacking in the work we're discussing here. The first step, according to the fine booklet, a group should be to make initial consideration before making a decision. The situation needs to be dealt with carefully, to analyze it, to explore the pros and cons, and then to shape a vision of the future, where the defects are, of course, minimized, but uplifted and corrected. Then there is a need to set clear goals regarding the change and set guidelines. It seems so important to me that there are some criteria that are set into the transition process so that you can look back and determine if the changes have been successful. Of course, some options need to be carefully checked, set up options and check those lacking in this bill, and see if they need to make significant changes or if they can improve what is available. Opinions need to be analyzed and considered. It is then mentioned in this fine brochure that it is important to avoid creating uncertainty and that the human factor need to be considered. All members of the council must know the tone of uncertainty of this change and the appeal that it has created all over the country. In some places, employees of the New Creation Centres are key workers in perhaps a larger context of the rural community and are glued to a particular function, and it is very important. This activity has been upset for a long time because people have not known where this change was to occur. That's not the answer, Mr. President, for the highest. Ministers, then, must make the adjustment before the Council has discussed it and discuss the procedure. The brochure states that in order to improve the staff's cooperation with the changes, it is very important to cultivate the greatest interest in the future vision that is lacking in this matter and the aims for it. Mr. President. Recently, this is a bill that was adopted to change the Navitors Lab, move projects from the Navitors lab to include House and construction agencies and other institutions. There is also work to be done. The Nytend laboratory remains as some kind of microorganist institution that should only protect consumer rights, temporarily, if defined by the bill adopted at dawn. We've only got a few employees left. In this bill, the employees who still regret the message that should be canceled received. That's what I'm telling me. The secretary of consumer affairs, also the minister of innovation, did not consult this brochure. It has not been sufficiently careful because such changes need to be carefully prepared, set goals, set standards, and view of the future, and keep the human family in check. President. This government has not been very effective. This may be understandable, since we and the government have been fighting a pandemic for a year and working conditions at the council have hindered things so that for a time it was just a matter of specific Covid. But even so, the government has not slacked the edge of surveillance institutions and changes, as we're here talking about, the development of innovation in the country. I'd like to say a few things. True, it was for a pandemic that the SEC was a step under the Federal Bank. It was highly critical, however, we could, the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, establish certain changes, including that foreign people appreciate it, when there is a certain experience in this change, whether it has worked well, and if further adjustments are needed. There was also a bill over a year ago, before the pandemic, to greatly weaken the Contestant. We also managed to avoid making the biggest and most changes, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, but it remained that large fusions are permitted without announcements. In this situation, it is particularly bad when so many tourism companies are in trouble. Tourism has flourished in small family companies and has increased the variety and life in the rural areas. The danger is that large groups take over the operation, and no one is watching it. It doesn't have to be reported, and even large fusions can happen without announcements, as I said before. Then, as I related earlier in my speech, the Neytendian Office comes to my home. The primary purpose of all of these efforts was to reduce the number of government institutions. It was not the benefit of the public, the benefit of consumers, but the reduction of government institutions. There, an assignment was taken and placed, e.g. Homing and anthropological institutions that are just different from those already in that institution. I don't know how on earth that assignment will depend on it. As I pointed out earlier, there is still work to be done in the Homing House and Invasion Institute. Of course, a consumer clinic employs surveillance for our consumers and instead of picking up from the Agency and reducing its teeth should put the power to shape a policy in consumers' affairs in Iceland, which has been called after years of such a course. But the benefit of the public, the benefit of consumers, is not already the highest. A government is doing its work. It's saving. They want to be able to say: We have reduced the number of government institutions and feel that this is some amazing achievement. I think it's more accomplished to provide strong support for the interests of the public and consumers in the country, but that's not to say, on the policy list of this government. President. Then I'd like to mention that the Economic and Business Committee has been assigned a bill to run an IRS manager under the government tax manager. There are all kinds of changes I think are very dangerous, changes that will soften the penalty of tax fraud. Other cases are to be paid only, and fewer are involved. I think it is obvious that with this operation, our teeth are being reduced from tax research in Iceland when we needed to strengthen them further. It's the same goal over there, to reduce the number of government institutions. The term for that bill is a double punishment; of course, the problems involving double punishment can be dealt with without changing the root pattern. We'll probably discuss that bill next week or soon after Easter. This has given the government its power, the reduction of teeth from surveillance institutions, important surveillance agencies, the public's interests, and the confusion of innovations, at the time when we need the strength of management and the rest of the innovations. Governments have been putting on increased money for innovation. And even though we in the United States would have liked to see more of the crowns on that project, we still rejoice at the emphasis on improving our innovation. But that's the way it is, Mr President, that everything is done in some way temporarily and temporarily. The pioneers who are going on a innovation project need something to look forward to and may not be on the move if they know that support can only last two years or so. I want at the end of my talk again and again to be criticized, which comes from my 1st section. There are several factors in the Committee Department 2 that can also be said to agree that the minority part of the council is critical of this bill, as is said, and has made comments on how this project could have been handled better. Just at the end of the day, I want to read the conclusion of a committee study I'd like to remember, which is the case, by permission of the president: ▪ It would have been more difficult to make an assessment of the Agency's activities in relation to the experiences of other countries and that there had been a deeper understanding of the nature of innovation and support for complex innovations. Unfortunately, it has long wanted to burn in Iceland that in decision making, both follow-up and assessments of the consequences of decisions have been made as noted in several national assessments. So states the committee's opinion, finally: The decision of the Minister to put down a new creation center without any intervention creates the very risk of poor and unremarkable management of public capital. President. I am really surprised that at this time, the government is in a deep business crisis when we truly need to rely on innovation, whether in government or in other businesses, to the highest level. Government and supreme. The minister of innovation should act in this way when it comes to handling these important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u72	A respectable president. There are two points in a talk. A senator I would like to draw attention to. First of all, "wow." A senator that when such a strategy is being established, such a course, such a change, must, in effect, set goals and standards and determine the purpose of the change, as it were. A senator said that it was possible to look back and see if it was successful. It's about, for example. Public financial law, i.e. how government policies should be a basis for all decision making. In our discussion, we have talked only about the obvious fact that when a decision was made to bring down the Creation Center, there was no plan to replace it, and financial plans were also put forward in the late autumn by permission of the president: It is published by the Management Board and by the Management Board. In fact, there is no much greater description of what to do, no policy-making to see if the funds assigned to a financial programme achieve goals that are to be developed in a financial programme. It is interesting to examine a financial program as a firm confirmation that governments had no idea of what they were going to do instead of a New Creation center when they decided to put it down. I wanted to swerve this point a little more with a bang. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u73	Mr. President. We will soon have a new financial program, and then we will be able to look up how these matters are discussed. But that certainly sounds like a reason. A senator read up here very hairy. It would have to be clearer. I don't object to being examined by the founder's wall, and people seek bright light to run things more practically rather than to achieve higher goals and better results. Then, too, things must be done in ways other than how to prepare for the changes we address here and other changes to the highest degree. Government's been involved. When we make such a change, it is important that we know exactly where we are going to go and that we can in advance take the position and examine the criteria we had set for us when they left us. We were going to meet certain standards and goals, and when we take the position, when we have experience, it is good to use guidelines that we can measure and use to see if we have had success, whether we need to go further or go back. The thinking that's just around the corner. A senator was under the law on public financial matters, not when he goes to such work as the bill we discuss here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u74	President. The second point mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount was the one mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. The councilman was precisely responsible for the execution of the council. It has to do with the first thing about how we're trying to get ourselves into a slightly predictable arrangement with the way we handle taxpayers and the state. The decision made by a minister to bring down a New Creation Centre without a available policy on the appropriate response to the situation there is by no means in the spirit of the law on public finances. A senator refers to or, rather, the principle of the execution of the council's commission, that ministers follow laws and policies accepted by the council, but not the other way around, that when ministers have ideas about what needs to be done, which are not within their existing objectives, they need to make decisions before making decisions, ask the council, and argue for the council for the council that changes to these are a good idea. Otherwise, we will be in the ideological hole that seems to be here to put down an institution because it is ideologically appropriate for the Independence Party to do so before elections so that he can boast about losing the booth. At the same time, a private partner was created, which is the exception of information laws and is really no different after all. And then what? What kind of government or government do we have, then, that behaves like this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u75	Mr. President. It was just the concept of the financial program that deals with the language field -- that I remember to be 35, but I don't remember it, there are 30, and something - that should take the course for the crime scene and put down a guard on what to do in each case. We would also have a chance to determine whether the funds planned for the project were too high or whether there was a lack of funds to carry out the policy and to handle such things, as well. A senator mentioned, e.g. whether we wanted to change the religion around innovation and pioneering in the country, whether it was necessary, and why it should be done. It hasn't quite worked. Although I still feel that we have learned a lot about the financial agenda, when it comes to the lawsuits, there's nothing there. It's a little like the highest. Ministers want to get off the hook. They want to do something, but they want to let go, i.e. skip the preparation and the clear vision needed and the objectives and criteria for changes such as The people we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u76	Mr. President. I thought it was interesting to hear a talk. The speaker seemed to end up thinking that there is something called a good administrative system and what the government has been doing lately. Then we can refer to the establishment of the SEC into the Federal Bank. You can talk about shutting down the consumer shop. You can talk about moving things like the order of toys under Housekeeping and Engineers. You can talk about coming down the head of the state tax and its import into the tax and, in addition, what we're dealing with here, which is putting down the New World Center of Iceland, and in fact, destroying the established systems that have supported the innovation of the country. I wondered, " What is my goal? ' Well, maybe. A senator who has quite a lot more Congress experience than I do helped me to understand what kind of thinking leads to such a journey? As was often asked during the time of the Roman Empire, "Who has made money in such an arrangement? " I just can't understand how this is supposed to improve. I can't understand how it can improve to delegate tasks that are opposed to their purpose and nature to institutions. I need help understanding this because it has become a pattern that must have a logical explanation, because otherwise it is a completely irrational government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u77	Mr. President. If we look at the changes as they are, we will see them. The senator listed that changes can be added to the Contestant. So, that's the FME, that's the Contestant, that's the Nite Owl, that's the tax investigator, and that's the innovation. If we think about what's in common with this, these are all, except for the innovation, surveillance agencies that are supposed to be the interests of the public. We've heard lndependence talk about the surveillance industry and that the market should somehow monitor itself and how it is all in their minds. I think these are just very specific steps taken to take away consumer protection and monitoring for public interests. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has only done good things about this, like what happened. A senator pointed out his list. On the other hand, this bill that we're discussing here is a little different because it doesn't have a surveillance facility in it like the others. But this is about innovation and innovation and pioneering. This stands in stark contrast with the laying down of one institution and setting others up with some vague aim for what would happen to the good work that occurred in innovation. [[The president calls.]] I think the pattern is to cut down and reduce institutions, but it doesn't quite rhyme with what's happening on the innovation bill we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u78	Mr. President. Yes, this is what I think, the correct diagnosis of the pattern, but the question remains, Who's gonna heal? Clearly, the public does not make money in such an arrangement and such an attack on society's ability to maintain its rules and maintain good manners in various ways. So the public does not make money or are not the enterprises in the country, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises that have been using the support network of Iceland's New World Centres, to make money on it, possibly at some point in the future, if something happens that is so extremely vague in the bill that it might be a little bit intense. So I can't figure out who's making money. But now there may be no hope. The senator has an answer to this question. It would have been nice to hear about this from one of the independents today, perhaps from one of the candidates and one of the top class. Prime Minister, except for whisk. The well - known form that handled a case earlier. But maybe there's another way, maybe a different way. A senator told me how it would be better to do these things. A lot of things are obvious and simple to say and say. A senator spoke a little about a good handbook in this. There are fine ways, and I'm not going to ask for a repetition of what was listed earlier, but how would it be better to approach that assignment?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-71.u79	Mr. President. Who will make the difference? asks why. Senator. The changes in the FMEs, the Contestant Organization, and the head of the tax IRS, I think it's obvious that those who have money make money. It's their interests and their companies, who don't want this surveillance thing, and who even want to be able to sell products to people who don't meet requirements. And when you ask if it is better to pull them off the market of good consumer control products, some say, " No, the market is on its own, people just stop buying them. ' It's just that way. There'll be some minor damage to the market, but then the market will be fixed. It's the mantra that lndependence goes with, and it sounds like it is. The senators and the left greens are muttering with them, unfortunately. But that's the way it is. As I pointed out here, there are good guidelines in the administration. There is good advice on the Ministry that could help with a good government. Of course, there's a good board of directors in many parts of the system, and I'm not gonna reduce it, but, unfortunately, in the cases we've been talking about here, about this bill and the bill about the Navitors Lab, to the highest level. Ministers of the mercenaries just wanted to take a shortcut and out comes a willing man.
