ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u1	Madam President. We here vote for the Vestnoric Council's conclusions that have been approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee. This year, it is up to the newcomer to propose one synopsis, where the government is encouraged to work on the three conclusions adopted at the annual meeting of the Council in the fall. Two of them are alike, encouraging the formal cooperation of Ministers in Western America, on the other hand, the cooperation ministers of the Northern countries in Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands are working together on a annual meeting, and on the other hand, that the Ministers of Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, working in the north, meeting each year for the development of Western interests in the north, and giving a joint report on the Western Governments's policies in the Arctic and the Arctic Council. Such conclusions are expected to receive abundant support here at the High Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u2	A respectable president. Europe is not a paradise, and the European Union is not a paradise and not all of it will be resolved. But the European Union and Europe are not a living hell on earth either. The European Union, on the other hand, is a European Union of sovereign independent countries, which they have done on specific matters, on certain rules they have agreed on in order to ensure specific rights and conditions for those in business and for those living in these areas. There was some discussion in the first part of the discussion that with full involvement in the European Union, this would happen - it came to form in the highest court. Secretary of State and others of his opinion - that Iceland would forfeit its freedom of business, no less. The loss of business freedom would amount to the loss of a full share in the European Union. As noted in this discussion, this would be news in the European countries involved in this Community because the European Union is the world's largest business relationship. The European Union has concluded business agreements with nearly all the countries of the world that are not within its ranks. Although Icelandic executives are resourceful and clever, it is impossible that they will be able to do for Iceland more and better business deals with countries outside the EU that the European Union has already made available, with full involvement in Iceland. Full involvement in the European Union is an exciting option, and there is good reason to consider such advantages carefully and without prejudice. For some reason, the possibility of finding out to an Icelandic nation could be excluded as to what it meant to become a valid member of this relationship. It was also said that this would amount to looking in the package. There's no way to look at the package, when someone always said, as if full involvement in the European Union was Christmas, you'd get it just once, and should wait to open that package until Christmas Eve. But this isn't a Christmas present. An independent group and a Middle East, then an forward group, promised the election to pay the national bill to see if these talks would be held after the government had taken over for them. After the election, the promise was made with a famous expression that can still be said to live a life of its own as a special term in Icelandic political thinking and may be called the contribution of the individual politician to Icelandic political philosophy, i.e. When Bjarni Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, said, when he made that promise, that making such a promise was a political impossible. So it was political impossible to allow the nation itself to decide whether they wanted to know what it meant to have a full share in this relationship and whether they themselves wanted to decide whether or not they would be involved. It is quite possible that the negotiations with the European Union will face a terrible deal that needs to be concluded. But we're not going to know. We will never know if these forces continue to rule the country that has guided it since 2013, more or less. The EEA convention, which was established under the leadership of peers back then, has proved to be well with us Icelanders. I think most of the people who look at that case are in agreement that it's given a lot of weight. It has completely changed the law here, it has completely changed the service of consumers, it has completely changed the environment of the environment, social rights, and so on. In an economic sense, it has been good for Icelanders to have been involved in that relationship. However, it is a kind of addition to the European Union. We're in custody, but we're not sitting at the very table where decisions are made. Iceland is a large country, but the people who live here, Iceland, are with the few most people on earth. As a matter of fact, we could hardly be spoken of as a small nation, as it were, as a national coven. Such national favors depend on the respect of international law. We can do ill in the hair of powerful sources, such as those of the codfish wars and other international disputes. It is vital, then, that we be part of a large political union, enter a powerful international community, and be able to influence the way the legislation is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u3	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson's great speech. There were, for example, a number of factors that might be considered during the European Summit, possibly part of Iceland's involvement in the European Union, and then the Parliament's decision to re-start the talks. I've always been amazed at this discussion, and I'd like to ask why. A senator's reaction to such ideas is intense. I wondered what it is that causes this reaction. Is it to some extent a fear of something that is thought to be unknown? Is there concern among various interests that they may lose their money if this happens, that those with great interests might somehow think that they can do better if they have Icelandic governments alone to manipulate or control? Could it be that it's just a clean, clean masked security that's causing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it is totally normal for a small nation to be suspicious of foreign authority forever. I don't think Iceland's story needs to be pondered for a long time to see that we have many examples from it that there is a reason to pay attention to foreign authority and to fear it. And that's perfectly normal. What I think, however, is how the European Union has not introduced itself in Iceland - now I tell the European Union because I think people tend to think of the European Union as a whole, that there is something that exists as the European Union itself that has the interests and desires of resources themselves, is desirable to a small nation. Thus, it seems that this European relationship is in the mind of an extremely many people. People are less aware that this is a state-of-the-art marketing policy, rights and specific responsibilities. It is not that there is some power here that has a homogeneous interest in itself but that in the European Union, we need Icelanders to be at the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think there's a lot of stuff in there. That is why, following this fine answer, I really want to wonder at why. A senator how it is so high during the discussion that the European Union is indeed a relationship, a cooperation of sovereign nationalities. In most cases, when these cases arise, a person's surrendering himself to the sovereignty is being given over the foreign power that humans try to, you can hardly say personal design, and yet, as some faceless writer in Brussels. Of course it's working, at least In my opinion, contrary to common sense. How could anyone possibly reason that the 27 countries that now make up the European Union are not independent and that they are not sovereign, that they are some kind of game-oppressive government in Brussels? Is it not so absurd to imagine that you just start with such countries as Germany and France that they think you have such authority? Why, then, is it that the little nations in Europe have turned to this cooperation and have shared in it and are pleased with it? I don't understand how this harmonizes with the minds of those who discuss matters on these grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u6	A respectable president. I thank you again for the question, and a big question is asked: Authority, freedom, independence. These are big and big words, and they are important interests behind them, but they can also be drawn and abused in various ways. I always think about Rósa in the desert when I think about the European Union. Halldór Laxness wrote this great work, the independent people, and I was now looking it up while the dog. A senator was asking me, and I want to do what I have been interested in. Rósa is married to a man who has this great idea of freedom, of independence, there in the wilderness. She's starving, he's mean to her, and she's in pain, but then the girls come over and they lead her to her hand, and then the reading begins with the president's permission: The girls took Rósa by the hand and led her out of town, led her to a low town stream, and sat with her, saying that it was wonderful to have such a small stream just around town, he was so friendly this little brook. Then they asked her how she felt, and she said, well, and they asked her why she looked so swollen in the face, and it was of a toothache, and they asked her how she knew her in the wilderness, and she looked up and kept herself from looking up, and said it was sosum very free.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u7	A respectable president. Today's issue simply suggests that a prime minister will be assigned to appoint a three - man committee in consultation with a body of members to conduct preparatory work to recommunications. The committee is assigned to evaluate when and how to resume the discussion. So the case, as mentioned in the synonym, simply starts to prepare for a return discussion of participation in the EU and that the national agreement will not be carried out later than January 2022; that the people will be allowed to make a decision and that decision will be made after a general discussion. Such discussions are always good and in themselves a little special that we need to discuss whether this should be discussed. This decision is so important, it is so big, and it has so much significance that the discussion must be discussed. It's certainly a big and important decision to say yes, but it's certainly a big decision to say no, and it's both a big and a bad decision, I'd like to say, to make this right of people, that they don't get to take a stand on this matter. The European Union is one of the most important peace alliances in history, supporting the freedom, security, and rights of the public across borders, and that, in my opinion, is an inbornly beautiful ideal that has proved to be precious to Europe. Iceland is an independent nation, of course, and these nations are also members of the European Union. They are independent and sovereign nations. There are nations that think and know that in cooperation, they are simply better off, that countries are stronger in cooperation than on their own, or even isolated. Like other independent and sovereign nations, we want to sit at the table in the international community. That is why Iceland as an ideal nation has chosen to be part of the United Nations, chosen to be a part of NATO, and chosen to be part of another international team that we are involved in, the National Council, Schngen, EEA, the European Court of Human Rights, and so on. That is why we have chosen not to be on the outside but rather to share in it and thus can affect our interests and future. It can be said that the purpose of this proposal is directly and indirectly to strengthen the sovereignty of the country, while promoting political ties, to trust defenses, to promote trade, and thus to strengthen our economy. The purpose of this project is to ensure the implementation of Iceland's climate targets. The purpose is to be included instead of standing outside. For this reason we feel that we should be having discussions with the EU and see what the result will be. We all know that we already have one leg in with the European Economic Area cooperation. To me it is so that the rest of the work, the rest of it, may be the main influence of democracy. In this regard, opposers of the Union have long spoken of the influence of small nations and, in fact, only in international community service in general. Many times this has been answered. In many cases and in most cases, small nations have increased their impact as participants in international cooperation. Their voice grows stronger within cooperation than that. The European Union has gone further there, I think you may say with all reasonableness, and prefer others in ensuring everyone's influence, e.g. have all nations exactly one representative of each Council of Ministers, an important factor. All I wanted to do was establish the fact that our legislation has already been developed by European legislation that shapes the rules of justice in most areas of national life. In this respect, the step involved is much less than what has already been taken, and it took place in the early 1990's, as we know. The benefits are in my mind political and democratic, with increased influence, and are economic. In this context, I feel that it is important to look at these things in order for generations to see them from time to time. I mention in that matter of the Bfenit elections, i.e. that is not how young people chose to be older. Young people wanted and chose all the benefits of this cooperation. We can also see that, and I think that a mirror has a specific vision of international cooperation, that young people are not afraid of cooperation, are not afraid of the benefits of cooperating with other countries. In the Bgret election, it was striking that the young people wanted to continue working together. A respectable president. In these talks, members of the Independence Party have been able to understand that international cooperation must almost be avoided and that such cooperation is in no other business, in free trade agreements. But what has the participation in the EU's inner market brought to us? It has brought us the four freedoms, the free flow of people, the product, the service, and the capital. That's why we can do that, for example. Learning and working anywhere in Europe will be of particular benefit to young people who go to school, who want to start a business, and who have a future in Iceland and in Europe. After all, international cooperation has produced so many positive results, as we know it, and it was so well seen in young people's attitude toward Baltrexit. That made me feel special to listen to the highest. The national minister of foreign affairs standing here at the Assembly Hall, speaking as the cooperation of the nations and of the European Union is, in effect, about little more than business. Of course, business is an important factor and a fundamental factor, but here the voice of Iceland in foreign affairs, the voice of Iceland's evolutionists, the voice of Iceland's international human rights; I thought that approach was obviously very narrow, but at the same time a bit sad, how the ultimate. The national secretary of state sees Iceland in cooperation with other countries. I see I'm running out of time. I might just get to finish my case by saying that I think it's important that these discussions take place, as I mentioned at the outset; what this means, what are the advantages of this and the faults. Although I can't help but hear that there are some who doubt it. But who will profit from it? To me, it is clear that young people will benefit from the opportunities they will have, that the country's home will profit from success at the prowess and growths that result from the production of the euro, that the companies of the whole country should see their own interests in a more economic environment which is marked by a vision of increased stability. Farmers will profit from a strengthening system, and the nation will benefit from our growing democratic influence on the laws we bring in. A respectable president. Since the end of the last world war, Iceland has been involved in many international cooperation. The purpose and benefit have always been the same: the stronger place in the society of the nations. We are stronger in political terms and culturally. We're stronger with security and protection, and of course we're stronger on economic and commercial issues. The cooperation of each of these cases has strengthened the national sovereignty. This cooperation has strengthened the international voice of Iceland, making us stronger and richer, and that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u8	V.E.G. President. I'd like to be happy in itself, that restoration has dusted off this discussion of participation in the European Union. I don't think it's a coincidence that it happens now. The discussion was prominent after the collapse of the bank, and now it's trying to convince us that we can't get out of the Covid crash unless we become part of the European Union. I'm glad we can discuss the benefits and weaknesses of walking in the European Union. I feel that after listening to the talks of those who wish to walk in the European Union, there is an overwhelming evidence for the benefits of walking in the relationship. There is one thing about lower growth - there is really no interest in Europe because there is nothing going on - and it's about a more reliable currency. Then you just look at Europe somehow, the European countries, compared to us, how we get out of the bank collapse, and how they've wrestled with its consequences. I had recently been in Spain, as famous has been, to introduce my socks. There's a land of 25% unemployment, 50% among young people. I see it's all going down there. You look at France, which is about To aim to not become a sustainable country, to have no pension money in just a few years. Of course, Germany's commercial power has not increased for some 20 years, but it's the government that somehow keeps it going. Yes, the Scandinavian states are doing fine. The proportion of the European Union in the world's economic growth has fallen substantially. I'm not convinced we should go in there, just far from it. Of course, there may be benefits. We might find some advantage in becoming one state in the United States, we could figure it out. We could access schools in the United States, etc. I simply think there are many more negatives. It has sometimes been said that the Independence Party, because it may not have been very fond of walking in the EU - that there is something like being there and somehow opposed to international cooperation. That, of course, is far from possible. For as long as I remember, the independent party has been in charge of the international community of Iceland. On the contrary, I believe that our interests are better spent outside of our relationship than they can cooperate with them. We're part of the EEA deal, and it looks like it's good for us. Of course, Europe is important to us. It's important to our business territory. But the world is much bigger than the European Union, and we limit our prospects by entering. Our freedom of business will not be the same. Our freedom of government will not be the same. Our domination of the resources will not be the same. These are giants. I'm not saying we can't discuss this. I really want to talk about this. I'm not so shocked to say that everything around the European Union is impossible. But as the European Union has evolved, it has been a bit left in the world. In Europe, all mattresses are missing compared to what's going on elsewhere. It is a complex, burdensome work, and forever. It's heading for Europe not to be competitive with the world, that's what I'm afraid of. Of course it can change. Of course, light may be visible to humans. But at the moment, I must say, I feel that the depth of Europe's mattresses is just not much of a blame. They have also talked about it and have been rather upset when opposers of the EU speak of our surrendering national sovereignty and independence. Of course, even if we walked in the European Union, we would still be an independent nation because we could make a decision to break it up again. I don't think there's anything wrong with the idea that we're losing independence. But we would certainly be in part to bring the Supreme Court another. Of course, we always do so in part in international cooperation, but there is still a huge leap in that direction. I'm not sure this is going well with the nation. The people are something just the way they are. There's a little bit of room for her, too. Of course, there's a little bit of Bjartur í Sumarhús House, that's a lot of independence. But that may be why we've reached such a far, far - reaching nation. It is by no means possible for such a small nation to create such a well - being country of Iceland. It just doesn't happen by itself. Of course, it may be that way later, the situation may arise, that our interests could be involved in a relationship like the European Union. I don't think it's okay that it is now, but I'm celebrating the conversation, okay? Councilmen at the projection, and I think it's important. But I'm just as convinced that the way out of a crisis, the way out of a Covid or the way out of a bank crisis, is not Europe. I think that everyone should be aware today, if we look at what has happened in the past few years, that we Icelanders have no reason to believe that it is necessary for us now. Nevertheless, I would like to continue the discussion. I've listened to the evidence, and there's some reasons, there's some good things about the European Union. I am a great European, I love Europe, and I would have liked to see this relationship completely different, that it would have been more intense, that there was more to control their own affairs than it is now. It'd be a lot more power. But cooperation is good, and it is important and should continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u9	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The gentleman of the son of Níelsson for an excellent speech, there were a lot of good things in it. The first question is, because I thought that he was celebrating the discussion, and I agree that the discussion is good, if it does not support the progress of the proposal. Hv. A senator also mentioned that the Icelandic nation is a bit strange and is somehow unpredictable. Is it not fitting, then, to allow the strange nation to make that decision for itself? Now we know that before the last election, there was a promise, including a promise. of independent leaders, of course, that the nation would continue to be in charge. It hasn't pacified, so I choose to interpret a word or two. A senator is in support of this matter. It may also be possible to focus on what was presented. When a senator speaks of Europe as a stationary and its professional life, he is killed in a zoom. Today, as we have agreed to participate in this cooperation, Icelandic employment life is bound by all the rules of European employment. Then you must conclude that the question is, Is it really true that an Icelandic job life is similarly put in a slack, so to speak? A senator has come to believe that it is right to get out of these woods and from the European rules that have such consequences and stop the EEA work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u10	Madam President. I don't recall saying that the nation was strange, but we can say it's special. It's a unique nation that I know and that I care about them. But I can immediately inform you that I have always been ready to ask the people if they want to walk in the European Union. That's the question I want to ask. I would support such a question: Would you like to join the European Union? I have no objection to the answer to such a question, but this certainly requires discussion. For jobs: We are not in line with all the rules of the European Union, it is far from acceptable. There's something else that affects the job, but only what's connected to the internal market and the EEA deal, so I don't think that's the case. We have the freedom to go somewhere else. We have freedom beyond the European Union. We have more tax freedom, we are not bound by EU decision. This may make a difference in our success. But I'm really worried whether it's wrong or wrong, that Europe's mattresses are small and that they're burdensome. The fact is that Europe has fallen behind, and this is a cause of concern. Europe has been such a center of the world. I'm not saying that it can't be repaired, even in the European Union, but the British put their interests in a better light of freedom outside the European Union. Let's see how they come to that, I'm very interested in seeing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u11	Madam President. I thank you again. A senator for the answer. Yeah, it's pretty complicated. Still, I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator is considering that there are a number of other rules that apply to the work in Europe than here at home. So he must be referring to some rules made by individual countries because we are under the exact same framework as the job life in Europe with the EU rules that concern the internal market. There must then be something else in which the nations are self - controlled. Regarding Britain and Baltrexit: Although I can quite agree that it is a rather early judgment, the first steps in Britain outside the European Union do not promise too much good how they will feel angry. Then there is always the question of when to discuss these matters. I noticed why. One senator said: "There may be a time in the future when we need to discuss this, that the situation will be different. Somehow I feel that those who are opposed to this discussion and this part - I don't want to do it. A senator speaks up, he is not opposed to the discussion - is never the right time for the discussion. It's not the time when it's going bad, it's not the time when it works out, and it's never the right time. It might be curious to know when that right time could be, what circumstances would be needed to justify these matters, at the same time. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u12	V.E.G. President. My opinion is that there is always the right time to discuss these matters. I've never said anything else, but it's always the right time. I've always felt that way, all along, and I've never made any promises on behalf of the party. I have always felt that the people should choose whether they want to be outside or in the EU and that is always the right time, always the right time to take up the discussion. I'd like to see this conversation objectively, combined pros and cons. But I was just saying that in my talk earlier that, as the situation is right now - maybe it can change when the discussion gets deeper - I don't feel very tempted to go in there, not at all, really far away. Maybe I'm a Bjartur in Summer House. Maybe I'm just like this. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson. I just have so much faith in us. But I also have faith that international cooperation is important, and this is important. It doesn't mean being alone somewhere in the world, so to speak, but we still need to be our own good-looking carpenter. We must take advantage of every opportunity available to us everywhere. We must not be overregulated, which I fear, will be too vengeful for us in the European Union. But all right, then. Senator, let's take this discussion. Maybe even closer. A senator may at some point turn me into currency rather than in this. You never know when miracles happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u13	A respectable president. I want to be like others to thank you for this discussion. She's fine. In fact, I'm a little surprised by the approach presented in this council plan. Once again, efforts are made to take some back routes of walking in the European Union, such as the movers wish. It is not yet a way of simply suggesting that the nation be asked: Do you want to walk in the European Union or not? Somehow, the spokesmen of this process, i.e. to want to walk in the European Union, always avoid the question, always avoid asking the nation directly whether they want to walk in the European Union or not and have even gone so far, at least in the past, to say that the nation does not know well enough. Of course, it is always strange when members of the council, including the one standing here, fall into the trap of speaking about the nation, it is a little difficult to make all the ideas and thoughts out of it. I'd like to mention a few things I consider awkward about this proposal. That's, first of all, as I mentioned before, that I dare not ask straight. I think there's some conflict in all of this. On the other hand, it refers to the repeated discussion and, on the other hand, continuing to talk. This doesn't fit in with me. It speaks of some cooperation, cross-collar groups, although everyone really knows in this hall that the Middle East is out of harmony with the European Union. This will never happen if other classes, especially in elections, are surely vulnerable to such things. Then the suggestion that there is just something that is either a two - sided team or a multinational teamwork. Fortunately, Iceland and I are in both, and we need to wear both. We need to be in international cooperation, and we need to be in two - sided cooperation too. Then, too, it is that I know that there is a misunderstanding that will in some way strengthen a sovereignty. My understanding of walking in the European Union is that it is following a certain part of the sovereignty, of course not independence, but the sovereignty is given after much and in large areas much more than has already been done with the EEA Treaty. Besides, it's really weird, at least. President, to liken our fine cooperation with countries within, for example. The Atlantic Union, the Council of the North and the United Nations, is about to enter the European Union. There's the sky and the sea, the commitments are different. It is an entirely different alliance or partnership or partnership that we would face by joining the European Union. Either this comparison is designed to mislead people - there is a big misunderstanding, a big misunderstanding, or some kind of ignorance. That's what I have to say. Sometimes people talk about the currency and we know that story in Europe and how Iceland has been able to get out of our current crisis. I also find a certain socialistic thought in the suggestion because it shows that there is a certain dread of the multinationals, with big companies. Here is a group that pretends to speak for employment, but at the same time, he seems to look for ways to hide control, search for power, shelter from the big one that can then think and work for the person. Then I find it very strange that in this suggestion, and in the speech of a messenger, it is spoken in a negative tone, that I think, of our cooperation between the United States and the British, which is very special. I don't know if I'm supposed to spend time, Mrs. President, in discussing this outcome, or what to call this, on the Icesave case all of which was the ESA, the European Commission, and the European Union that went against us Icelanders because they didn't think we met the rules they had set. We would be obliged to handle personal debts. Now these are the same people who supported them at the time that we should pay them off, come here, and want us to go back to breaking up in the European Union. It's totally crazy. It has been discussed business and other matters, and I agree that the European Union is, of course, just a toll alliance. We have more tax freedom today and whatever we think of so much tax freedom, it's clearly more for us than in the European Union. In terms of the vaccine array and the secretism surrounding it, it is amazing that the government has taken the lead in passing our authority to the European Union to provide a vaccine for the nation. It's very special that I know, instead of having the balls to do it myself. We have also now seen that there are probably about 30 countries that are better prepared for vaccination than there are Icelanders, although, hopefully, these are going faster at last, when these vaccines happen. I'd also like to mention, Madam President, regarding the EEA contract that has only been discussed that it was very sad that it was my knowledge when this was agreed to make a special assessment of the EEA agreement. Foreign Minister took it upon himself. It was an appointed committee that then produced some sort of halleluja newspaper or Hallelujah report on this contract. It was not an attempt to look at him with critical eyes, and it is left entirely. No matter what international cooperation we are or two - sided, we are afraid to look into our contracts or commitments critically. I'd also like to mention my professional life because it has, like, one. it has been claimed in this symposium that farmers would have the better part of the agricultural funding system. Granted, few have studied and submerged such commitments as anything offered by the European Union, such as Icelandic farmers. They have found out and produced literature on this, not just once but often, and have discussed that the interests of Icelandic farmers are far better outside the European Union than in the United States. This should be examined before acting out facts, as has been done here. We know the way to the sea. When it comes to job life in harmony with EU rules, it is only part of our jobs because much of our business life is better avoided by such rules as agriculture and fishing. Madam President. The general agreement with the European Union has been discussed here. In the year 2019 France, the two sides of the relationship were evenly divided. Then a survey published on Euronews, European News, was published I think it may be covered in Icelandic, where individuals were asked whether they were likely or unlikely they would support a financial exit out of the European Union after five years. That's interesting. In Germany 30% agreed, or quite strongly, that if the British were successful, they would likely want to walk out of the European Union. Forty-five percent of the Italians responded positively. 38% of the French responded, and 37% of the Spanish were positive that if the British were successful in economic success after five years, they would likely or very likely be supporting them in leaving the European Union. However, when asked or examined who were opposed or opposed to leaving the European Union, there were 38% of Germans, 8% more than there were. In Italy, only 20% are opposed or highly opposed to leaving the European Union if the British were successful. It is even in France, and more people would like to break up with it rather than be in it in Spain if the British were successful. Therefore, Madam President, it is not that way, although the officials of this proposal will pretend, that everything in the European Union is flourishing and contented. Each fuck-up has been working on this relationship for the past few years. The economic crisis will follow the European Union years or decades longer than Iceland. They could not cope with the refugee problem. They've been unable to handle the Covid problem. So you wonder why people in general today want to try to enter this alliance. Besides, I don't know that there's been a deal with every state coming in. The European Union is in such a great deal of trouble for one another, and it is so difficult to resolve its internal issues and internal complications, or to deal with neighboring countries, just enough with it today. It's not important that we get hung up to have some conversation mentioned here, and it's that mine knows completely crazy at this time and at all other times, so it's totally clear. However, I would like to reiterate that Iceland is to participate in international and international activities and two - sided jobs and communication everywhere, where we feel the need to do so from Iceland's interests and, of course, also from the world's interests, if we can contribute something to the situation. But we do not do so by walking in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u14	Mr. President. First, let me celebrate the very nature of this discussion, as the headline of the synonym, the recurrence of discussions about involvement in the European Union. Transporters, they're all Coyote. Councilmen revere. I do not agree with the facts of the conclusion, nor do I consider any sense that Iceland will walk in the European Union, but it has been so over the past few years that those who base their existence on the hope of bringing the nation into the European Union, those whom, as it were, are classified as living largely around the one matter, solidarity and wooding -- it was time, of course, for this discussion to come up on the surface, so to speak. It has been evident through the last election and through the election period that there has been very little interest among the members of the Parliament and the officials of these two classes in discussing these matters. So here's the perfect opportunity, and I welcome the discussion that will be held on another day here at the council. Of course, the timing is special, but it suggests that the Cradle's members considered this their main interests to be the only thing they could keep to the fore. It is difficult to read the occasion from the synopsis proposal unless it remains on display. And why do I say that? Yes, here is a re-interpretation of discussions on the basis of Congress resolution from 2009; when to resume formal negotiations and prepare a proposal for Congress there to be agreed by the Council by the Council, which would be imposed by the Council of the Council for final confirmation. Then comes the raisin at the end of a hot dog: The national contract for the return of conversation is carried out no later than in January 2022. This seems to me to suggest that mind doesn't fully follow, this is more flimsy than the fact that the reveries feel that there is a possibility of real success in the proceedings of the case. It is obvious that the current government is not about to do anything about these matters, away from the viewpoints of the groups that make up the picture of the most amazing things. However, that the national agreement on the recurrence of the discussions should be carried out no later than January 2022, when the resolution to the General Assembly at the end of September 2021, shows that this matter is all fearful wonder. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson, earlier today that Europe was no paradise. There is evidence that much can be done better in Europe, but this is true that Brussels and member countries of Europe are indeed a paradise of the writer's language. I can say for myself, and I know that it is my members of the Central Party's council that I agree that I just don't think it's our Iceland's nature to go to the desk of writing so thoroughly in the hands of the people here. There are still plenty of regulations on the automatic assembly that comes with the EEA agreement. If people in general believe that Iceland's situation would have been better, as we look at the years of banking, e.g., whether it's a matter of dealing with the Icesave fight or a deal with the demands, state of state in the European Union, I think it's a big misunderstanding. The final event is, of course, the mistake here on hanging oneself in the back of the European Union's carriage of vaccines, which has now been over the past few days and weeks. We can see what has been in place in the above discussion about the situation in terms of member countries' activities. It's stationary and setbacks, labour market problems, high unemployment rates. Low interest rates are often mentioned, but these low interest rates now do not result in good growth in the European Union. They even come. ... becausethe economy has so little to do with it. It's all there is to try to use the device, which is made up of money printing and low growths, throughout the euro economy. If people think that participation is the best way for Iceland out of our current position, in the crisis we are in because of Covid, they can only compare it to what some have described as knocking on a burning house. In that I will not take any part. It is proper to welcome the discussion that takes place here. We have the opportunity to try to reason on the other hand why we should not walk in the European Union, but perhaps even more so listen to the viewpoints of members of the Parliament and of the United States, these sisters in Europe's affairs, and try to learn what in the world makes these two fine members of Congress still feel the same way they once thought it was the way for us as a nation. Some members of the Parliament have come to that in the preceding discussion, why do you want to join the European Union as it is, just as it is? That, of course, is what will eventually receive us. It would be good to recall that at a press conference, the European enlargement director Stefan Füle, I think I was, the local minister of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson - reminds me that it was in 2012 - that there was no permanent access. For years, it had been obvious to all those who wanted to see that it was a adaptation discussion, not a participant conversation. In what ways does a new member nation adapt to the European Union's regulations? There was no negotiation of how the European Union adapts to Icelandic law and rules. It's just not like that. We're stuck with rules coming in on an assembly line. It is now, for example. in the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee for Re-education of Employment Drivers, absolutely surprising rules that the national job drivers have to sit on long courses every five years in order to maintain their driving rights. The main reason is that they need rights to cross borders. It has not been considered a major problem in Iceland that drivers can't drive in the day and day out cross-border so many on the same day. Of course, if there is any sense in matters of reason, there must be some way that those who are planning to do jobs abroad, within the European Union on the mainland, would obtain some additional rights. However, regularly attaching an entire class to the purpose of these studies to please some writer in Brussels does not result in an increase in confidence in the contribution of the European Union. Finally, because now is the time to slip away from me, it was mentioned here at the beginning of the day. Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, a reverendist, believed that Icelandic employment would be bound to all the bonds bound to a European career. It can be seen with many aspects of employment, but what is suggested in this Parliamentary proposal is that it covers all aspects of the economy and all aspects of the Icelandic community, always extends beyond and beyond the reach of the European Union. The European Union now stretched into the legal field of health care, with the consequences we know. I hope this council proposal will be the basis for continued discussion on these matters. [[The president calls.]] But it seems to me that the introductions of the case and the dates mentioned in it are primarily to show and some kind of virtue of the feds into the support groups of revered and convergence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u15	A respectable president. We here will discuss a great controversies proposal to return discussions about participation in the European Union. However, at some point in the history of Iceland and the history of the General Assembly, members of Congress would have reason to participate in the conference and to participate in the discussion even if there was reason to express their thoughts in the East. Now we are sitting here in an almost empty conference hall, a respectable president, and the interest seems to be less common in the public outside, as a new study reveals that even those who vote for the body of members representing the Parliament smell proposal are only 40% in favor of walking in the European Union. It seems that interest is the least. I'm not surprised. So far, I have not heard any solid evidence that Iceland is better paid as a member of the European Union than with the European Union contract we have today with the EEA Treaty. Therefore, I must admit that it almost surprised me that the reveries of the early Union policy policy, the council-sounding proposal submitted in 2009, and, unfortunately, was the only step or the only thing the members of the Continental then spoke of as coming out of the Depression after the collapse of the bank. I think it's a little awkward, now that we're having problems with Covid, it's gonna happen. Anyway, I'm glad that we have the opportunity to talk about the European Union and whether it's reasonable that Iceland will do that. I'm going to state that I like the European Union. I think the European Union has done a lot of good, and I think it is very reasonable that the nations that live together in continental Europe and, unfortunately, have frequently been able to cope with tragic wars are in the European Union and work together as they do there. I also think it is important that Iceland cooperates well with the European Union and the European Union. But I also believe that the arrangement we have today, by having the EEA deal, and, hence, being involved in the large markets that Europe has, is an overexhaustible way for Iceland. At the same time, we have the full freedom to negotiate with other non - European countries. We can develop our cooperation, whether in business or vacation agreements, otherwise, which, of course, are not the situation in other European countries that make this agreement together in the European Union. A respectable president. Of course, there are a lot that needs to be kept in mind when it comes to national interests, and of course we should be watching Iceland's interests and Iceland's interests and how they will be best paid. Therefore, I feel that the debate on the European Union, or the best cooperation with the European Union, is likely to exist indefinitely. I don't think anything unusual about that. I'm not going to say here and now that I'm going to be a lifelong disagreement because Iceland is supposed to be joining the European Union. I can quite agree that I hope that the situation will not be that way, but there are so many things that can change around us that affect us, and that's why we always have to let this interests take place. The body of opinion presented here is designed to initiate the preparations for re-interpretation by ordering three members to agree with members of Congress to direct preparatory work in cooperation with the Ministry. I have to admit, a respectable president, that I find this very complex presentation of what I thought was will for the restoration and, in fact, what that category was formed out on, i.e. walking in the European Union. Of course, it would be best to ask the Icelandic people if they were interested in that road, and the big mistake is, of course, that it was not in its time in 2009. As a result, the nation became very divided in its fierce opposition or excessive desire to enter. But I think those members of Congress who make this plagion proposal know as well as I do what we regularly find in our polls, i.e. that there's only little interest or none. I must admit that I miss something to hear someone speak for the fact that we should apply for involvement in the European Union and why. The synopsis associated with the synopsis is of limited value, in terms of offering reasons for going that way. Since my arrival at the council, I have had the opportunity to share in international cooperation, and you learn a great deal from sharing in international activities. I was standing, for example. a little in the sense that our differences, whether or not we should enter the European Union, are that we have so little to say about what happens in the European Union, which would have been of the countries that existed in the European Union. I came to understand something strange, one of the first meetings or the conferences I attended in European countries, that they were complaining to European Parliaments and ashamed of exactly the same things I had been doing in Iceland, i.e. that the members of these countries had no value, and the European Parliament did not listen and were not seen for the interests of the countries. I thought, "Yes, it's the same discussion whether you're in the European Union or not." When I had the opportunity to visit the European Union's heart in Brussels, when the European Union's office invited me, as they have invited some members of the Council to Brussels to get a presentation of the relationship and to talk to various members of different ethnic groups - particularly interesting and illuminating missions - I also realized what the European Union needs to contribute much to its interest in Brussels. I had also, perhaps in my simple mind, understood our discussion so the Icelandic Parliament would have to have an employee out in Brussels to observe what would happen there, and we would have to be very busy with our interests at Brussels - but there's nothing because we're not in the European Union, it's just all nations are too busy with this. The embassies in Brussels are filled with people from the countries in which this is exactly the country's financial protection for its countries. So there wouldn't be much change. I'm also going to commend the European Union for what it does in general at its work, i.e. that there's a lot of transparency in their jobs. As a result, we can always follow up on what lies ahead in the European Union and on the work that takes place before there are legislations in various work groups and specialist groups. We are invited to do so. If we have the right to present experts in that field, there is no point in participating in this work. To say this, and I'm sure I could continue for a long time, I think that the Icelandic nation is best spent in the arrangement we now live in, i.e. with a steady cooperation with the European Union through the EEA Convention that has brought us so much. At the same time, even though we are in the European Union, we must constantly guard our interests in Brussels, as well as in other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u16	Mr. President. As you can see, the person here is speaking over middle age, and I remember from my childhood that on the only channel that was then going on in Iceland, the program called the Old Law was sued and played. Usually, it was extremely bad music, often brought by German artists but by Europeans. I have to admit that when I heard of this proposal, I thought of this firehead part of the Kingdom TV program. On the other hand, I'm very fond of this proposal being made, just don't think I'm happy that it's there because there was a nice senator here before. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who said that those who oppose Iceland's entry into the European Union would never feel that it was the right time to consider the matter. However, I can't think of a better date than right now, that the Council of Antioch will come out as one, adding to it in stone that it is a single group, whether it is one or two. It's a one-on-one policy. It's a magnetic policy of 130, Reykjavík/Brussels. And the other single - group leaps up and chases the same ambulance, as these groups often do and get in the way of each other's poopism. But how wonderful it is to have this suggestion made now and to get a serious talk about the benefits and shortcomings of walking in the European Union! The group I'm part of is against because the Icelanders are walking in the European Union and they themselves believe that it would be easier for us to revise the EEA agreement than to start looking for the regularity of walking in the European Union. In order to open this discussion, the Middle Class and I were led by Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, a request for a report last year, a report on the benefits and flaws of the wonderful relationship, i.e. The EEA team. It came back after a long misery, Mr. President, a report on the benefits and benefits of its cooperation, the EEA co-operation. There was no flaw there, not any, so the report was not worth the paper. But this is what happens now and then. We've listened to the fact that those who make this suggestion have spoken a lot about us being basically in the European Union's care, but it was all important for us to get to the table, as they say and influence us. I'm sure it's nice to get to a level and make a difference, but the last time I knew, Mr. President, the European Parliament was 705. It is likely that Iceland, Icelanders, would receive two or three members of that council, and I believe our impact within this relationship would be about this. As much as when a fishfly shits on a white wall, and I'm asking the President to excuse the language. But, of course, it is also what humans know and have seen through the past, the European Union's conduct, e.g. to small countries, Iceland and others, whether outside or within a relationship. There's one thing I want, e.g. points to and there are the last two contracts between Iceland and the European Union on mutual trades with agricultural products, mutual trades, and these agreements and negotiations for the establishment of this relationship, the European Union. It is, however, a natural toll alliance that has changed over the centuries, most because politicians in the 26 or 27 countries, or what they are now, have left behind the writer's power. Therefore, it is not surprising, Mr. President, that those who are more likely to beat the European Union's drums are represented by the largest group of writer writers in Iceland, and they have a writing colony in Brussels at several hundred people if we enter there. This is just the biggest dream of their lives. But this is not what we need, Mr. President. We don't have to be in the role of some sort of download in this cooperation. That's why we've stressed it, because we're international, and we've pointed to international institutions in which we're walking, with a chance of making our voice sound and effect. I can name the United Nations. I can name NATO and other institutions. I have to admit, and I'm saying that we're also just wide-minded, but then, the middle-class people, that we want to focus on this one continent. We know that the focus of commerce, economic growth, is on its way east, she's headed for Asia. She's there now. It is the center of international business. And why should we get another third party, since we have nothing to say to negotiate with this big block in our name? We can do it ourselves. We've shown that. We have a close example of that, because I can't remember how many of those times there are at that point. The reverends have been crying into this chair this winter because the British were on their way out of the European Union and what terrible things would now happen to that nation when they were free of this rabid power. It has been several months since the British left the European Union, the lights are still on, the trains go, the bites, the burnings, and the intelligence of men, the British have done far better than many others to cope with the epidemics we are all dealing with. In the meantime, we went to the shelter of the great, so desirable, because we're so small, we're not a nation, we're just a sample, I think, as it is. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson said earlier. We're just so tiny and we can't help ourselves that we really needed to tea, i.e. hanging in the back, pardon, Mr. President, the European Union in vaccine care, with the consequences we've seen. I see that the Chairman of the Cradle shows up at the gym, and I'm celebrating it tremendously. I'm just going to reiterate, Mr. President, that I think it's wonderful that reverend will reveal his monologue, as the squad does with this proposal. I just think it's wonderful that there's something going on at this time so that you can reason with the fine party right now during the election. It'll be fun watching what you're doing. Residents try to persuade the other 60% of their group who are not involved. It is only about half of the stock, so it will also be very exciting to observe the tactics and arguments that will be used in this discussion. But, of course, the Icelandic voters now deserve an election to have us cross, not the benefits and advantages of a famous report, but the pros and cons of joining this contract. I see that one newspaper in Reykjavík, or almost a newspaper, constantly publishing the pollings and threatening to do so for the election, has just now some weight to suggest that the number of people who want to join the European Union is growing. There are many other things that you have seen, but it will be exciting to watch them too. But the best thing to do is for restoration to rock as a single policy group with this proposal, and I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u17	A respectable president. After listening to this talk, why? paritaprevir My Sæmundsson, Mr. Gerstein, I believe, was the very significance of this proposal. I'll be following up on the final talk that it's a little special, I think I've been tracking 90% of the talks, hearing senators, especially middle-class, and some of them at the Independence Party, discussing what they think they're going through. You see, what exactly is said in the motion is very moderate. I've said here that maybe we can be criticized for going this way, but the suggestion is to instruct and inform people, have a conversation here, and even a conversation. the benefits of Iceland, whether the benefits of Iceland are better paid by two-sided contracts or international cooperation. Such a study of natural people is not to be feared. It's part of what we're talking about, making sure that not only they get once, if God promises, but twice to say what they think of the European Union, and whether it should continue at first and then, if it is said, to vote for the deal. No one should be afraid, especially of all those who trusted in the nation as we did through Icesave. This speech is different. The senator made it necessary to educate and inform the general public but also to inform members of the council. So here, the senator argues that the European Parliament, our representative, will make two at a minimum of up to three or six and even more. [[The president calls.]] So right away, the facts that the senator presents are not facts but only false. This underscores the importance of our having discussions with the nation, informing and teaching its people about the benefits and also the failings of international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u18	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect the time limit set.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this answer. I think we agree on one thing. That is the importance of talking about this matter right now. That is exactly what was said in my speech at the beginning that I was so glad that the construction of the piece came forward and pressed in as a single policy group by making this suggestion. Hv. A senator accused me of handling the facts wrong, and I'm sure I can swallow it because if I'm wrong that we get two, three members of the European Parliament, but if we get six, these three to four will probably make sense so that our voice will be heard. But I think it's a bit different, not money. Other facts that may have appeared in my speech did not involve the senator. I'm glad she agrees with me that this is the right time to discuss this matter. Yeah, yeah. Of course I'd noticed, Mr. President, that there was a half-heartedness in this suggestion. I had come to realize that. They wouldn't want to stand in the hot water with both legs that they'd kill something, I'd realized it. This proposal is naturally relatively harmless, Mr. President. She doesn't kill anyone that I seem, not so fast at all. But I say again, I think we what. A senator may agree on the need to discuss these matters, and as mentioned here, I welcome that discussion and will participate wholeheartedly in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u20	A respectable president. I'm happy for those words. Since it is important for us to discuss these matters, the convention has arranged the matter, not allowing others to decide what to do. This government, which we now have, does not put matters on a program that is not suitable for its sponsors and stakeholders. This should not be the case handled by the restoration. This is not the case for which the restoration has set out and set out, such as the balance of votes. It should not be discussed and resolved that further transparency, including in the price estimate of a catch that arrives in a land that ultimately has enormous significance on which the real resource price will be and on the other hand, the value of the revenue in order to pay the sailors the right salary. All of these are matters that we have set up but that will not be over. We got a deal, and I know what to do. A senator voted with our bill, which became legal, to cover the costs of those who need spiritual support because we said: "Mesual feelings are meant to be equivalent to physical. " The Congress agreed to all of this, but the government will not put it on schedule. It is also thought - provoking. We're putting issues on the schedule, but they're either not done, or the execution of the administration will stop them. What I want to ask you. As a result of this issue, I feel that I cannot agree with him in trusting the nation's trust to take this step, this cautious step, after we have charted e.g. Whether it is in the area of NATO or the European Union or in other areas, whether it is better paid in two-sided contracts or in the international community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is there anything to be afraid of?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u21	V.E.G. President. Now it's impossible for me to defend the government, so I don't know if this great deal was in order to make it clear that the Central Party was some special journalist for the government that he isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u22	No, I was...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u23	But I can totally agree with that with what. There's a senator that there's a dosage of a case in Iceland and here at the council. We Middle-class people have wanted to discuss the issues of trustees and those who cross borders in a reasonable way, in a balanced way, but we didn't find out because as soon as we open our mouths about this, we're starting to see ourselves as racists and other top-words with f and n in front of us. We're not gonna make it through with an intelligent discussion about, for example. That's it. To trust in the people is to say why. Senator. We have been quite successful in trusting this nation, and we are still. I don't know if this proposal here is stated in a way that makes it a question for the nation to answer to some reasonable conclusion. But then there's one thing I want to correct when I'm wrong. A senator. It speaks of two - sided agreements and, on the other hand, international cooperation. We are engaged in a very great worldwide work. We do not want to lose that multinational work. We do not want any authority to govern our international brotherhood. We want to do it ourselves. There's no turning into us Middle Class to it. We are not afraid of foreigners. That's a butterfly, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] As international people, we want to communicate with as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u24	Mr. President. Hv. Sæmundsson It was not a matter of what he has in the European Union and our motive there. It is good for a person to speak clearly in this regard. So just because I haven't done it before, there is nothing to doubt about it. On the other hand, it seemed to me that there was a number of poems in the language of the day. The senator to take to that as chairman of the fine party for which he is a senator, going out in the state of the labels. He put one small label on the Archipelago and called the construction of a single - language class. Now I know what to do. A senator may be present at the council, and he will be very careful with the Senate work, and I would only ask him reasonably to review the Parliamentary Constitution, review our members of Congress, and know if he can find these words anywhere else. Sadly, this is the course that people would like to take into account, avoid the subject talk, draw the label, and then click on a whole political party as a group. It is most untasteful and most unfair, and the worst is: It is not in any way consistent with the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u25	V.E.G. President. I think Father Hallgrímur said, "What he wouldn't do, had to come over him." Because of it. A senator gets so upset about what I said here - it's sometimes said that men become most angry with the truth - I'm going to ask him to look closer and in his class, this fine dog. A senator. I remember a time, just in the past few months and years, that the Cradle councils have hardly spoken of the group I belong to do not paint a picture of the isolationists, men who are attracted to international agreements, and during the time of Trump, Mr. President, he was often drawn up from acid and transferred into the discussion and covered in the spoken language of the middle class. So I'm gonna pray. A senator is guarding his glass when throwing stones out of a glass house. I'm not leaving because what's been the biggest thing in the language anyway. A need to divide out the currency is the need to walk in the European Union. Well, I haven't been in the speculers or an investigation into it, Mr. President, either one of them got picked up, but a little bit. A senator can only tell me if he is very interested.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u26	Mr. President. I must now say that this is the most pathetic thing I've heard in the council. Here a simple question was asked and asked very carefully. A senator would be wrong. A senator did not make any attempt to substantiate his claims. Rather, he began talking about glass houses and stones. I don't really know what to say to people like that, but this may show that people don't show up when they're hiding that they like to talk about it, that they're doing a good job, because it's finally something to talk about. What, then, do people do? You just don't talk about it. You guys go on some kind of weird road trip. I'd love to hear it. A senator made it a subject of what the president of his party thinks is what he calls the state of politics and whether he believes that his hearing here in front of Reunion is a relative or not and whether it's a medium-talistic bitch, which is an acceptable party, whether it's the politics of the Middle Party. It is now that when people preach extensively about how others should behave, it is good to try to set a good example. That's where it didn't work. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's crème de la vita.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u27	V.E.G. President. Now, it is not my intention to jump into the hole in the face of a grave. Senator. On the other hand, I would like to direct him in a kindly manner that if he has a problem with the head of the Central Party, the chairman of the Central Party is regularly here at the council, and he can take up the discussion whenever possible. It is not so, Mr. President, that the person standing here would feel that he is better qualified to speak his case or in an honest way or more orderly than others or that he is exemplary in the way he uses his words here in the public chair. It's not. All talking about sermons, I'm just passing by. But it is different, as I said earlier, when someone is in a state of anger, I have touched some nerve at the bottom of my head. A senator, and that's all for himself. But there was one thing that happened. A senator who is actually wrong, because I suppose he has not listened to the talk I gave before, a ten - minute talk, way too short, i.e. that there was no need for a previous talk to discuss issues that concern us and our relations with the European Union, nothing. But if you do. A senator has not noticed what I said in the previous talk. It is his natural problem, not mine. It is worse, however, if he goes out as if he had listened, and he did not. It's a little worse. I'm going to say it again, Mr. President, while I have time, that I celebrate this discussion and will participate in it with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u28	Mr. President. We're here on the Council's Reunion Plan to continue our discussion with a certain development in the European Union. The reason we believe it right is simply because we believe Iceland's European situation and Iceland's position against the European Union is very important for a number of reasons. In other words, the membership itself is a kind of hat of a wide range of goals that would reach or move toward better by the European Union's involvement in Iceland. For many years, I personally have had deep conviction that Iceland should have ambition and power to join the European Union and take part in the great and great work it does. And, of course, when I say the European Union's anything, I'm talking about the 27 completely independent countries that have bound these organizations in order to achieve better results together. Throughout the years since 1989, I have observed very closely the developments in Europe and the journeys that have been made by the European Union and the road that Iceland has taken in connection with this increase in European cooperation. I remember my first magazine article, I think I'm right, showing up on Christmas Eve, 1989. I suppose there wasn't much of the material to go to the Morning Press at that time because I got an open mind to discuss EFTA cooperation and what might be ahead of us in cooperation with the European countries. The subjects of today and the future are not one government that can handle that task. To cope with the challenges, the Kingdom must meet. This is what the European Union has done, its member countries. They want to work on many projects to improve their own prosperity, to help with the better welfare of their subjects, to cope with big issues. For example, there are science, education, competitiveness, personal protection, and most important environmental issues. The world around us is thus growing in power over big corporations. In effect, they have often become a kingdom of the Kingdom. The only person who can deal with this is the national community of cooperation. The European Union has, e.g. with great force and emphasis on coping with the all - out, technological giants that surround our entire life. There we can do little for ourselves, but we certainly enjoy this work, and we enjoy the fruits of so many of the European Union's fruits. Enjoying the fruit, of course, is not enough for me. We are to be in the orchard, and we are to nurture the fruits for our own good. We are to take on responsibilities and are to receive rights. It's the right thing for us Icelanders to do. We're not supposed to look at the European partnership through an excel document where there are crowns and pennies to rule and that are alpha and Omega all over. We are to view the European Union as a member of the European Union's European Union's Cooperative Organization, and that is where we should take our place. We're about a lot of happy people. It's a prosperous place. There are many areas in which we have moved people, and we are invited. We are to enter into such cooperation for the benefit of ourselves and for the benefit of the Member States all. I don't think it's appropriate for a country to look only from economic standards. Peace in Europe may not be a problem. In Europe, neither is cohesion a matter, and in chapters you see that little is to be done. Of course, here we Icelanders are supposed to be active participants to ensure that we will continue to do so. We cannot hide it from others, that it is a problem of the nations to maintain peace, that we are so small, that we are without warfare, and that we do not make a difference in that context. It's not the spirit I like. Therefore, I would like to approach this matter from the ideals of cooperation and cooperation for the benefit of all of us. In the end, the public of this country has to make these decisions, and they should not stop him from getting that chance. In their time, 55,000 Icelanders signed the challenge to continue negotiations - this was about 55,000. two dozen protests every Saturday, with repeated appeals to the council and to the government back then - and sad that the will was completely ignored. That's against us. Of course, we are to trust the nation, trust the common people, in such important matters. It is wrong for us not to be thoroughly familiar with the matter and then to make a decision. Europe's issues are often not on the agenda, there is no interest in them, and people are often referring to the polls. Despite all of this, more than 30% of the people who ask whether they want to walk in the European Union will answer yes, 30% of the people. That's a lot of things, and we should let them make decisions, and, of course, even those who think that we should not join the European Union. [[The president calls.]] Then we will finally finally find out what the national will is. We are not to stand in the way of national willingness in this great matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u29	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that we should not take our stand against our national will and be able to agree well with it. But I wondered why the synopsis proposal is presented in this way rather than simply saying, "Why don't we go to national pay on whether or not to continue the European Union's affairs? Would that not have been just simpler and clearer? Then maybe I get to ask who. Senator: Am I not properly understood, or is there some misunderstanding? Is this not a group that was formed a little around bringing Iceland into the European Union? I remember that when the team showed up, it was his main policy. I'm glad, as I said earlier in a talk, that we have an opportunity to discuss the important issues in the European Union and whether Iceland is desirable in the European Union. But is there a great interest today among those who support restoration in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. One of the major factors that led to the restoration was that a great many of the people were persecuted that we would not be able to resolve these issues. I know why. A senator well knows that the resolution of these matters was made by promises of total elections. They were played here on the East Coast speakers in a series of cases, the words of the independent Party's leaders. But it was betrayed. There were a lot of people who said we couldn't finish this. I can absolutely agree that it was a huge trigger for the resurrection. There is no doubt at all. Hv. A member of the European Union also knows that restoration represents a great deal of other things than walking in the European Union, but it requires so many aspects of it that there is a great degree of tenderness and simplicity in the way of saying that there are some of the almost unique groups of the European Union that it is high on the agenda in the respective category. The European Union includes so much that it would simply fill a whole policy list, so it is highly unfair to say that humans are feathered in one matter. Regarding the other question: Is there a great interest in those with whom there is a restoration? Yeah, he's great. Newest polls indicate that it is, I think I'm going to remember this correctly, about 70% of the supporters of the projection that wants to be involved in the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u31	A respectable president. I may have misunderstood Machine's survey, which science wrote a news report recently showing that about 40% of the voters were in favor or in favor of the European Union. I must admit that I was amazed because I thought the voters of the Revolution were very interested in walking in the European Union. The little interest that appeared in this survey certainly surprised me. The reason I asked if this wasn't the main policy of restoration is because I am, I'll just admit it, very often agree. A senator here at the Senate Hall and in his Senate work. I think that's why we're like this. It was very sad, in my opinion, that it was established at the time because I think there are good people who are at home within the Independence Party. But what I was discussing about the interest in the European Union and was one of the questions: Is it not reasonable that the Council's decision to go to a national law to see if the nation would like to resume these discussions about membership in the European Union? Hv. A senator knows as well as I do that when this journey took place, the whole government began to spin more and less on that journey. I believe that it was the biggest failure of the government, the left government that sat in 2009◯2013, to unveil all power in the European Union, and on the top of not taking them to national pay and to see if it was the real will of the nation during the difficult times we lived them, to place all our control systems in the way of discussing involvement in the European Union. [[The president calls.]] In elections, I believe that the national interest in walking in the European Union is so small that none is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions and thoughts. Now I'm gonna have to grieve. A member of the council, I believe, is very fortunate to have developed and, fortunately, the restoration is a completely independent class with its own depth and its own personal policy, which is in many respects quite different from the course of the Independence Party, although it is certainly consistent there, as it is with most other categories. If checked, there are now cables that lie between all categories. Of course, it is a very traditional practice to describe a restoration as some sort of straw from the Independence Party. Of course, that is not the case despite the fact that there are people of the independent group who are being built up in repair, but there are also people from many other categories. As for the interest in European Union, I think the problem with all this discussion is a little bit of the person I described earlier. The discussion is always about the member question, and we will never be able to expand the discussion on what this means. We're very greedy of going straight for a dollar and a buck. I'm at least. A strong belief is that this is not about crowns and pennies. This is about everything else that I studied very carefully in my speech. I have deep conviction that Iceland should have a full share in this kind of cooperation, otherwise we're a sovereign and an independent nation not fit in. [[The president calls.]] We are to take part and take responsibility for the way this continent fares.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u33	Mr. President. It's been very interesting to observe the discussion here. It is safe to say that Iceland is a highly active member of the European community in most areas, with the exception of most of the issues most important in Icelandic society, which especially apply to the seabed, agriculture, and currency. When the economy is successful, there are few European issues, but some may consider the advantages of EU membership, as if the European Union is the best way to solve all the world's problems. As an example, they have likely observed that the opposite of the relationship has been in the process of dealing with the viral epidemic. We know all the vaccines' clothing called, and Iceland was never meant to hang itself to the EU's failed vaccination program. As a result of delayed and incorrect decisions, vaccination was much slower in the European Union than expected and the virus epidemic has therefore been dominated for longer periods. How interesting it is to consider what is involved in restoration to the path of this synonym! What is it that is so desirable in the minds of members of the Parliament restoration when it comes to the European Union? Is it the European Union's fishing policy that is directly contrary to the interests of Icelanders? Is it desirable on the part of a restoration to transfer custody across the seas and to the European Union? Is losing control over one of our most important resources important to us to have nothing more to do with it? Mr. President, it's an appendage to what would happen to our fishing exits in the event of a member. And what about the loss of sovereignty, if it is desirable in the eyes of members of the Parliament, that the nation should be removed from custody over its great resources? It is the nature of fighters to emphasize the important things for each cause, and to try to minimize the appeal of those who feel strongly about it if they might have some merit from the cause of their opposers. Let us consider some of the facts in this matter. The interests of the Icelandic Seabed will be given overboard. A custody of the marine resource would disappear to Brussels. The European Union's fishing fleet would be able to produce in Icelandic jurisdiction, the decision of the maximum resources in Iceland would be finally taken into the European Commission's Council of Ministers, the control of energy resources moved to Brussels, and the law and rules would flow to us as never before. And let us not forget the freedom of the contract in this matter. Does that mean nothing to him? In the European Union simply means that all business agreements with other countries need to pass through the European Union. So we would lose our freedom to negotiate business agreements with other countries, treaties that have brought great benefits to us in Iceland and the Icelandic nation. The European Commission would handle all business agreements with other countries. Iceland would lose negotiations in terms of business contracts with other countries. By entrance, Iceland would renounce freedom to negotiate with other countries, which would be an unacceptable conclusion. There's a lot of opportunities in vacation contracts for a small nation like Icelanders. The United States declared it, for example. ... last year they were interested in making a free trade deal with Iceland. It was news, but involvement in the European Union would prevent such agreements and involvement in the European Union is not free of charge. The high costs of membership and Iceland would likely have to pay with them. The nation's weight, in turn, would mean a lack of influence in the relationship, that's just a fact. One of the greatest reasons Iceland has chosen to be outside the European Union is to address the views of national sovereignty and independence. Iceland will continue to become an independent nation, but it will not completely control itself when it comes to the sovereignty. Although Iceland is not entirely concerned about the role of Iceland in the European Union, they have always considered themselves to be a European nation and have promoted their European cultural tradition. Of course, international cooperation is good. It involves the benefits of us Icelanders. It's not that Iceland stands outside international cooperation today, anyway. Everybody knows that. It is only natural for us to ask ourselves such questions as what our future prospects as an independent nation are and where our opportunities are. Is there a problem Iceland could face in the immediate future outside the European Union? Is it really a challenge to think that Brussels officials can choose to protect our interests and that they are the best at making decisions about our domestic affairs in Iceland? Thinks that these people have knowledge and an understanding of the specific conditions in this country, including the U.S.A. Because of the isolation and different biographies involved in living on an island, though not far from the continent of Europe? Iceland would then struggle with a lack of power in the European Union. I think everyone will see that. Because of its small size, the European Parliament would have made its representatives very few. Iceland would be the smallest member of the Member States and therefore have little potential for influence within such a large organisation controlled by big and powerful countries. Let's only move to the end of this business to the north. The interest of the northern international community is growing each year. North regions have become increasingly important to many countries, especially as a result of global warming and melting in the Arctic. More important, there is a need for access to valuable natural resources and open - up waters. New routes of transport are being developed with increasing potential for transport, and the importance of international interests is increasing. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, former president of Iceland, recently said that a meeting of the North Pole to be held here next month will be one of the most important and important meetings in Iceland. Sports will open up in the near future in the Arctic, thereby increasing the possibility of Iceland's trade with distant countries and opening up a wide range of possibilities for us where Iceland would become the centre of a shipping route between Asia and North America, which could lead to many opportunities. With involvement in the European Union, Iceland may be offering its future possibilities for the north. Unemployment has been way too high in this country for the past few months. Iceland and I aren't used to much unemployment here, but we now know why. The viral epidemic has certainly taken its toll, but we will recover. One feature of the European Union is high unemployment, not just temporary, but decades after decade. The European Union will not bring jobs to Iceland if thought otherwise. Iceland is to be situated outside the European Union but still have considerable and good communication with the European Union, especially through the EEA Convention. At the same time, we're supposed to take advantage of our agreements to the limit, the prosperity of the nation grows with the appearance of free trade agreements. The EFTA and EEA treaties are the most important vacation contracts that Iceland has ever negotiated and have had the most impact on the Icelandic nation. Of course, two - sided agreements with China and Faeroes are important. In China, there is a growing market that offers great opportunities for the Icelandic economy. We are expected to look more into Asia, a rapidly increasing market. The United States has shown willingness to negotiate with us, as previously said, and it is important that we do so. [[The president calls.]] Similarly, we need to establish good business agreements permanently with our most important market area, Britain, which is now left the European Union. [[The president calls.]] Finally, Mr President: Free Trade agreements create greater opportunities for the Icelandic economy and are actually the basis for the welfare of the nation. That should be our priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In his talk on this fine matter, he went through many different parts of the congregation during our restoration. I have to say, I've heard what. In view of the fact that this particular matter has not been planned before, this discourse is often delivered by a member of the body. I have to say, too, that in time, she doesn't get better. There are various factors to take into consideration. A senator gave up his talk. But I would like to look especially at what he said about the European Union's fishing legislation because we are much, especially in the last days, discussing matters that concern our water supply, and there are things that we don't agree on, e.g. the importance of here being the temporary binding of resources for the benefit of the nation, etc. I know it's not the case here, but I just want to make it clear why it's a big deal. Hv. In other words, a senator misdirected the European Union's fishing legislation when he claimed that control of our resources would be shifted to Brussels when we walk into the European Union. There is concern that this is always the case among those who are the most strongly opposed, since the fact is that there is a basic obligation to fishing management and observation in the European Union, which is much of the same as we live here. It is also a license to apply national laws. The scientific evaluation of each nation in its marine areas controls an overall supply of crops, which is a rule that concerns that the proportion of countries in total resources remains stable and is based on hunting experience. [[The president calls.]] It's simply no more complicated than that, so I request further explanations of the claim that the authority is moving to Brussels. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u35	The president continues to urge members of the Parliament to maintain the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's clear to everyone what would happen to Icelandic fishing soil if we walked into the European Union. It is no coincidence that our fine fishing route and its representatives have pointed to the disadvantages of entering the European Union. They know these matters best, and if we walk in the European Union, they have proved very convincing. It's clear that the investments of foreign people in fishing in Iceland would be opened up. The weekend would be opened to foreign countries when fishing and we would be seeing here the Spanish, French, and other fish fishing parties in Iceland, those who have fought to expand our territory for decades, and it has cost a lot of sacrifice, as it were. This is very clear, huh? Senator. This is clear, and it is clear that unless we have to worry about these matters in Europe, the marine route was not to convey these messages that are well - worked and well-founded, that it is a big concern to walk in the relationship. The investments of foreign parties would be permitted on the fishing road, and we know how it would turn out, gradually, to be obtained by foreign people. I think it's perfectly clear, so there's a lot to be avoided in that subject. It is clear that fishing grounds and other factors make such decisions in the common context of the relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u37	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the counterweight. I lost the number already. A senator had already said that eight times in this counter, and eight times I say, " That's not clear, it's not clear. ' But I understand why. A senator and his brothers who are afraid of negotiations. I can see now why that fear is due, of course, because opposition is based on the fact that something undefined is clear and the harmony of that opposition can be broken if an Icelandic nation is authorized to converse, and because it is about negotiations. And speaking of negotiations, I'd like to use the rest of my time to discuss just the difference between deed and deed. Hv. A senator will be informed that at the end of the week, Iceland will give up all the rights and rights. The fact is, when a group of free sovereign nations, whether in the European Union, NATO, the United Nations, the Northern Community, anywhere, gathers together with a group of free sovereign nations, who have common goals and will to achieve it together, they sell things. No one's giving up on himself. You are strengthening yourself by handing up some sources to a joint contract that is stronger than we are individually. I want to ask, simply so I understand, because I think it's important to understand where it came from. A senator noted: "Does he have no distinction between sale and deed in this context?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I got a lot of business contracts, free of contracts when it comes to Iceland's business contracts, and that's an example of what we're going to take care of, i.e. We cannot negotiate specifically with other countries on business and free trade agreements if we become members of the European Union. It knows why. A senator who is well aware. We have been very successful as a nation in making vacation contracts. They have been so positive for us as a nation and for the welfare of the nation. So I concluded earlier that looking for a vacation contract should be our priority. We have a very good vacation agreement with the European Union. He has made good use of us, and we are to keep him to my judgment. In addition, we are going to try to achieve a good deal with other countries, such as the United States I mentioned earlier. We've reached a deal with China. For example, we would never have reached that contract with China if we had been in the European Union. [[Up front.]] I mention, for example, a deal with Asia, which would be very desirable to look for. All of this we can do in our power as an independent, sovereign nation. But if we were in the European Union, as it were. A senator likes it so much wouldn't be possible. I hope this answers one of your questions. The senator's turn to deed. It's arranged that we have suspended this case and, so I'll use that word again, it's clear that then it's gonna happen that we can't make good vacation contracts. I sure hope we make it, e.g. a fine deal with the United States, who have shown a very positive initiative in making a vacation deal with us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We could, for example. not done if we were members of the European Union, to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u39	Mr. President. When the evening falls on the two o'clock in our discussion of our fine trilogy in the woodland, you may want to pick new points or jump on some points. But before I experiment with it, I'd like to say that the thing that may hit me the most after this discussion, which has been very interesting, is closer to the sheer joy and happiness that all the people who have spoken of here, all of them, declare because the matter is being arranged. This, on its own, is a natural cause of great joy and must be discussed with us only as much depth as possible because it has to be said as it is that we may be going on a little bit of this. Well, I hope that's a good thing. I'd like to take a little spin on who's making the most money in Iceland. We have been very good at talking about the profits, the pure economic profits, and the free shopping agreements. Now I'm not going to minimize free trade agreements. Our well - being is largely based on our success there, especially through our cooperation with the European Union, through agreements on the European Economic Area. But it's just one piece of the big picture of a country's success and profit. We are a nation of our own, and we must have the desire that our international position reflects it and that we have a place at the table in this society of people. That is why we are proud to be members of the United Nations, to the Council of NATO, with the International Business Institute, to Schngen, to the European Economic Area and Human Rights Court. We are not out of the way of this organization, which we could easily do. This may be one of the decisions we have made, but we have decided that it is not that we are surprised there and are now, when discussing the European Union, the pros and defects of international cooperation. We've gone through these things, we've assessed the pros and cons of the big movie on the prosperity and profits of Icelandic society, not just on business agreements. We want to be members, participants, participating in the scene of this cooperation and brotherhood that has a major impact on our interests and future, not just ours as an island, but on our futures and interests in the nation of Iceland. For the same reason, we should be part of the European Union, standing there equal to the independent and sovereign nations that prefer the alliances of independence and sovereignty, prosperity, yes, profit, best paid in a community of such nations. We already got one leg in. We are in cooperation with the European Economic Area and, in the remainder of the situation, are actually the democratic effects we would enjoy with our entry. The European Union's opposers have tried to dissuade the benefits of our entrance into the United States by speaking of little or no effects of smaller nations in international cooperation. I find in my mind that those who speak down are representatives of the Icelanders, of this nation, who have performed miracles over and over again by their influence on the international routine, within those nations, and by their spirit. I, as a great member of the Member States, could pick reasons other than this against involvement, they would be better. I think it's quite amazing. The European Union, in turn, is more fully involved in trying to ensure the influence of these little nations. For example, all nations have exactly one representative of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, and I am not deeply concerned that our representatives will not act there. Opponents have also claimed here that we will not have enough force or power in the European Parliament to make the entrance a city. It's wrong for many reasons. One of them is e.g. Because there are groups of dead bodies involved. We're on wood, for example. in cooperation with liberal groups. Soiad ecoons, such as the United States, have their party, their conservative groups as their independent Party, and so on. So we share a partnership across the European Union, like we own partners here in the country. With entry, we would have elected agents in these conglomerates. We would have advocates of the movement in Europe that will most strongly influence the development of our interests in business and human rights within the continent. In certain matters, nations have also joined forces in the European Union. The northern countries have stuck together, we would not be alone, we would be a nation among nations. At last, we would have the power to influence the laws we are already ensuing from the beginning. It matters. Participating in the European Union's inner market has brought us the four freedoms, the free flow of people, the product, the service, and the capital. That means we can learn and work anywhere in Europe if we like. This is of particular benefit to our young people who go to school, who want to start a business and increase their exports. This is also useful to our little community here because if we keep up with it, we'll get our people back home. That's what we need. We need to think that our young ones will bind themselves to sheep's skins, carry on to the world, learn and study, get to know, get knowledge, and skills, increase their openness, and then bring that message home. That's what we need. We need to open the door for our young people out into the world and keep them even more open to bring them back. That's what I believe that our involvement in the European Union will lead to. I'd also like to mention something that's close to me and us on restoration, and that's the climate issue. The situation is that the European Union has taken full control of these matters, and now I'm going to allow myself to use their English promises, the Goren Dealt to the contrary. They do, for example. More than what is being done here in the government field to make the private enterprise, and the private sector is included in these suggestions. Here, the government has placed emphasis on the actions of the official in these matters, putting on the chest for a great amount of financial resources, which is good and blessed and positive. But we need to see what comes out of it because there is not enough money to put into things, and the government is not going to do it on its own. We need everyone's efforts in common. We need the private sector involved, we need the education sector involved in this. This has been seen by the European Union. This community of dozens of countries, especially in environmental approach, has gained a solidarity in policy that is more progressive and progressive than our policy, unfortunately. There is much we can learn. The European Union has, e.g. Understand that it is important to have your companies and employment with you from the beginning. They have also come to realize that it is not good for the free market economy, and thus for the prosperity of the nations, if the corporations leave small and medium-sized companies in the smoke because the big companies alone have the opportunity to deal with the increased budgets that will be due to our handling the climate problem. No, they're being offered support. Many direct support is being provided to ensure that the small enterprises are involved and that this will not misplace their market situation. That's where we were studying. Mr. President. The answer to the question of the highest benefit in Iceland's European Union is obvious. It's Iceland that makes the most money. [[The president calls.]] Young people benefit from opportunities of entry. The country's home profites from the quality of the economy and the growth reduction that comes with the filming of the euro. [[The president calls.]] The company is profiting from the economy of increasing stability. Farmers gain most by means of the restructuring system that is particularly agrienvironmental in the north. [[The president calls.]] Our country is profiting most from our growing democratic influence on European legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u40	Mr. President. This talk has been very interesting, perhaps especially on the part of two panels of each consideration of the case, has been so much trienchoa national conservativeism with questionable justification that you have had to pop. One down. A senator once spoke of this matter as some sort of virtue of the police, while a mob fell. In fact, a senator engages in endless, broad virtues in all matters of the same way, when the sect finds some kind of reason to show that it is more against than anyone else. The other group involved in this discussion clearly have a reagent. It has been a complete parade of senators who want to show that they are far more opposed than all the others, and who repeatedly say things that are inextricably wrong. This lacks minimal respect for the facts and intelligence of those who are listening to the talks. It doesn't take much to realize that these things are wrong and that information can be done better. I'm gonna use this opportunity to flaunt my own virtues. I think this case is in the right direction. It is worth noting that the reason why our relationship with the European Union is where it is largely unsaturable is that I believe, on my part, the Minister's decision of the past, is to stop negotiations with the European Union without a hearing at the General Assembly. When the order comes from the Council of Parliament in the form of a resolution, a minister should not cancel one by one simply because it is convenient for him to do so. On the other hand, it was also unacceptable at the time to apply for membership in the European Union without a group to the nation that would end in national pay. It was very steep in its time. I don't know exactly why we had so much trouble, and this was in many ways a very bad time to make that journey. In both cases, on both sides of moving off and stopping, politicians and members of Congress were actually putting themselves ahead of all democratic traditions and all the important things in a democratic community. That's why I think getting this thing started again with a national fee at the beginning of the process, as suggested here, is a good idea. That is a good provision, that is the right way, and that is really what should have been done from the beginning. In this discussion, there have been more recent developments and reasons to deal with them. V.E.G. A minister of state said that if we walked into the European Union, it would somehow be a means of freedom of business. Freedom of business is measured not just in a number of free trade agreements but in the quality and scope of the business. It's not complicated. Just to say, we don't necessarily have the best vacation contracts, even though we have a lot of people. For example, the European Union has recently remakeed a free trade deal with South Korea, but when we went to South Korea on behalf of EFTA, the South Koreans did not have the slightest interest in renewing their contract with us because, in fact, we had nothing to offer them. There's the other one. This matter is about being outside the EEA, either in the EEA or in the EU. I think everyone who's been watching something with Bgret should understand being the country outside the EEA is a very bad idea. To get out of it would be some kind of economic suicide for Iceland. But being within the EEA has worked well, except that we always need to explain to the European Union, whether it is the European Parliament or the Commission, that the EEA exists. Our economic care for the European Union is quite high because the European Union itself thinks a lot about the European Union. According to cold interests, it must be better to be at least participants because the best way to have no effect is not even in the room when things are discussed. In fact, as a democracy, I would say that there are no laws and laws to be adopted and adopted in any country without any country having a place to do with the law. The fact is, today we're filming a lot of European types. We'll do it on the basis of the EEA Convention. We do it voluntarily, and that's fine. It has worked very well, but it would be even better if we had access and involvement in the relationship and could have practiced the microscopic politics that we have, at least, could have some sort of vote, six votes at the European Parliament, and quite much to say in the European Council, where both a number of countries and a number of people in the United States are important. Some have said that if we go that way, we will lose our sovereignty. But then I ask: Do not France, Germany, Italy, and Malta have sovereignty? Are people serious when they say things like that? [[Up front.]] Really? I think that these countries are sovereign but are in a strong national relationship where people help one another. Then we come to what is most important, which may be the right thing for those who speak against this matter: There is not much interest in the public in the community right now. True, for some part the political class in Iceland may have shown over and over again that it does not have much interest in the public's view of this matter. The public has never been asked. There has never been any process where the public is taken to the table and even the basics on what the European Union is and what it is not about. To say that this is, in effect, about entering the European Union as a very difficult trial for the power of various special interest groups in Iceland. In Iceland, many rich positions of power would lose out of their ash at entry. True, many have legitimate reasons for opposing, but there are many perfectly valid reasons to be against the European Union to form a lot of ungodly legislation that has passed through the European Union for the past few years, a number of disastrously wicked legislation. It is perfectly normal to resist. But when people are just on the basis of something, well, I don't know what to call it, Claim it, I don't give much for it. Pirata's attitude in this case is just different from mine. I'm pretty obviously in favor of the European Union. In fact, I'm all for starting the conversation with the nation, starting the conversation on the basis of facts, and following the process of a national agreement and making a national agreement where it will go, and for politicians to stop pretending it's their private affairs. I agree completely with that. There's Marty's policy on this. But I say there are facts, they are important, and it would be amazing for such talk if we stopped hearing a total barberless silence when talking about the basics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. There's one point I'm wondering about, if we're just going to take a little deeper, and we're going to take a little bit of thought about one of the factors, and that's the way it is. A senator visualizes the potential of the European Union's public to request a national bill on the others and those issues that will be determined in the common field if we become members of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u42	Mr. President. First, the solution would be that we would record the constitution that has been established for quite a long time. Then it would simply be in the constitution that the people of Iceland had that right. But we don't have to look very far to find an example in the European Union to see that this was exactly what it was done. In Denmark there was a national agreement that led to their failure to adopt the euro. This national agreement was not questioned by the European Union in any way, and it is also noted that the national execution also resulted in the failure of various other regulations and directives, e.g. Directive on how to deal with decisions that fall into one European country against another, i.e. how the final judgment is to be carried out. This is just one of the many issues in which the government of Denmark, the sovereign, has used its sovereignty to be different from the other countries in the European Union. There are many examples of this. When the British were in the European Union, they were somehow at the head of a class of specialities in things that usually had no particular reason to be unique. The British are just weird, and I say that as a British citizen. But seriously speaking: National pay is not the problem. In Icelandic politics and in European politics, if only the political class in Iceland would allow it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u43	Mr. President. I'm just gonna explain my thinking more about this. It's an example. A senator refers to a national law that has to do with the change of the Union's terms, as in Denmark. It was up to Danir to decide to stand outside the Maastricht holding of national law. What I'm referring to is that the difference between the EU and the EEA is even. in the EU, common legislation has a very large number of direct effects in all Member States, of direct right effects. It does not have to go through conventional legislation in the same way as in the EEA. I wonder what. A senator has wondered how much space is needed to bring up national pay on individual matters, as it is said, by entering the European Union's establishment, the European Union's administrative organization, which is entirely different from any international community to which we are involved, is of its own nature, and includes a far more comprehensive influence on national legislation than there are other international cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u44	Mr. President. In a sense, it's right next to what's going on. A senator, there is far more than any political decision-making campaign in the EU than there is a reasonable amount of work. But we also see that the European Union has gone off course that there are institutions within every state that deal with all issues like this in the past. Today it is increasingly a special common European institutions that care for things, e.g. in personal protection, in air security, in transport security and in other categories. On the basis of the EEA agreement, we have to choose between somehow calling our institutions to the big European institutions or to hide even more roles and usually without much more money. The third possibility that has gone, in the case of the EUMA and other shorts that I simply can't remember at the moment, is to let the European institutions rule in a direct or indirect way. It's a concern that this is getting bigger because I think it's important for a state to make a direct impression on its own matters. But we won't be able to complain about it while we have exactly zero votes in the EU. We can, at best, get hungry, and we are not even doing it today because our protection in Brussels simply does not offer it. Although there are many good people who do them, we just don't have political compassion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u45	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a proposal for a hearing from the Annex to Reconsistencies on participation in the European Union. All I have to say is that this discussion in the middle of Covid time is a complete time error. Some ten years ago, I might have been able to sign up for a negotiation with the European Union to check what we could get out of it. But after being in the EAPN, the European Union against poverty and social isolation, and having accompanied them to Brussels at a conference on poverty in Europe, I realized how huge the collapse of the European Union is. I was thinking of a weird campaign opening for the next election, a ridiculous promise that might be like this: slide away. Let's join the European Union. This, of course, is a complete collapse because there is no more booth spreading than the European Union. At this poverty conference in Brussels, I discovered the scope and severity of poverty in Europe. I know her here in the country, but the situation was far worse in many ways. I was deeply stabbed by the apathy and hopelessness. But the thing that really bothered me was that at the time, we were protesting here in Iceland and we probably felt like coming to protest peace. In the middle of a conference in the palace of poverty, a gold palace, a palace of gold, and marble, in Brussels - it was a bit absurd to be there at a conference about poverty with people everywhere from Europe who were truly living in poverty - it was thought that the EU headquarters was now going to protest poverty. But then there was a wailing. It couldn't be done. There was permission to protest. It had to be done several weeks in advance, when and where, and how. But those of us who were there, the Icelanders and others, especially the Northerns, did not think to follow it, and we decided to jump off to the European Union headquarters and protest, no matter what the consequences would be. We encouraged everyone to come, but that was just the lesser part that dared. Much of the people living in poverty in the European Union were afraid to go and protest because they did not have permission. The rest of us went and protested, and there was nothing done. It was all right, there was no need to be afraid, perhaps because we were so few, perhaps because they felt they were not threatened by this small group. But this led me to study the European Union, the way it is. It also convinced me that if we as a small nation walked in there, we would be the ant in the presence of the huge pink elephant of the European Union, and it would be easy to crush. There is another factor to show us how the European Union is and that is Britain, how Britain has been trying to get out. Britain, apparently on childish grounds, walked in the European Union in one of the youths, but it seems to have grown up in there. They decided to go out, which will probably be their pleasure, I don't doubt it, but then the trouble started. We've watched British war of getting out of this awful place. It hasn't been quiet and quiet. We have, for example. I'm talking about the fishing business here. We can see how the British lost control of their fishing grounds, overfished, had no control over them. So when they go out, and they're really about to start taking control of their fishing business, they're being thrown up by wailing. Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, all instigate screaming. No one wants to contribute after what they have received within the jurisdiction of Britain. And it has also been shown by EU negotiations with Norway and Svalbard that the European Union wants to keep all the rights it has received through the United Kingdom. It is heading for a huge debate over macroil and other fish species at the European Union, Norway, United Kingdom. As we have seen, the European Union will not give anything, not weightless, in this struggle. It is a bit strange in all of this that since then these nations, Greece, Italy, Spain, have been pointed out to be in good shape in the European Union that I don't think they are. We know how Greece went after the collapse. There are a lot of things about the EU to do. We have the EEA deal, and unfortunately, I think it's time I made a quick statement that we're not taking these contracts on an assembly area without saying anything about it. I don't object to being in the EEA, but I'm opposed that we're accepting all kinds of laws and regulations in an assembly, including laws and regulations that are not relevant to us. We should start changing this because we are in a sense dishonorable and ashamed that we will not be able to control the situation for ourselves. Being in the European Union is like choosing a few of the best pieces, there may be a few good pieces, but in order to get these good sugars, we also need to eat the bad ones, even the bad ones, and I don't think that's good. I'd also like to discuss the Schengen team. We keep a close eye on the gangs of crime that come into Europe but forget all the criminal gangs that can go on free and around Europe. These are the items that we need to discuss outside the contracts of the vaccine and the Covids that have been installed here. But I believe we've started backwards, that we should have started, I agree, to ask the people if they want to join the European Union. It would be all right to ask that question first. Then we could enter a business venture if the nation wants to enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u46	President. This has been an interesting discussion of our proposal in the restoration of a discussion of involvement in the European Union. I think the discussion on this proposal exactly shows, especially when you listen to the language of those who are completely against the European Union, no matter what the use of this proposal is, how necessary it is. People here are determined, deliberately, or merely out of ignorance, grueling, from the point of view that we get only one or two members of the council to start talking about the delllument that foreign fishing ships will be here all over the legend. That's totally wrong. Those familiar with the European Union rules, including of the relative stability based on national hunting experience, all of us, except for those in some hate speech, I am afraid to say, in the European Union, that we Iceland will continue to rule and hunt in our jurisdiction and not anyone else. This is an example of what illustrates exactly the purpose of this conclusion. It's primarily about how we start preparing for a special Ministry, preparing information, maping Iceland's best interests, whether it's with two-sided cooperation, which has become the secretary of state, or by going through a nation-wide community service that has shown itself in the history of the country, through the NATO and the United Nations, the Northern Union, so I'm not talking about the EFTA and the EES Convention, to have always been a successful step for the Icelandic nation. It has always been demonstrated that it has been successful for the Icelandic people to take part instead of having a gate. Based on economic stability, social stability, cultural impact, the desired effect. History shows that this would be a successful step, but it is necessary, and we admit it, to increase our discussions about membership in society, its benefits, and its faults. No one should be afraid of it, not in Resurrence, other classes that are in favor of this route, or those who are totally against the European Union. It is not that there are individuals, whether called the Guðni of Ágústsson, Davíð Oddsson, Hólmsteinn Holmstein, Hauksdóttir Hallur, or Hallsson, who determine what we plan for. There's no way. I am amazed, and perhaps not, that the minister of foreign affairs made it quite clear in 1st. on the matter that he was opposed to a national law on this matter. We're not talking about the deal, we're talking national pay on whether the nation should be asked whether or not to continue our discussion. It was once this way in 2009 that a foreign minister's band voted with a national fee, at the beginning of the case, which I believe had been a very sensible step--I voted by it in my time, because I trusted the nation; as I trusted the people in Icesave, I trusted it in it. I'm not going to be the one to decide what the nation can't talk about or vote on, especially when it comes to such enormous interests for us Icelanders, who are exactly connected with an open, free and marketed social system, economic stability. This has been our responsibility in the European Economic Areas, and I don't doubt that we would be able to get this on the same side of the European Union. Thus, the talk has brought out many interesting surfaces, quite familiar talks, talks that you might have said would be given here. But there is no match for anyone who dared to comment on the contents. Why not ask the people? I've been asked about this from a very hard European Union why we're going this way. It's because, as I believed in 2009, I believe it would be better in such a great way to include the nation, to have authority from the nation, that it will strengthen the process. This proposal goes on to show that if that national agreement is approved, the nation will receive at least one. two national regulations, this and then another if and when contracts are reached by the European Union. That is the opportunity, the space we would like to give to the nation, not allowing any members of a house or outside of our mind what we put on the political program. Then people are playing with numbers to promote false news, to arouse some emotional response in the nation. We lose all our freedom of business - that is not surprising. The European Union is, therefore, atoll alliance; there should be no new news for people. But what does freedom of business involve? Freedom of business involves much more than just making contracts, free trade agreements. We look at Dani, this great design nation. It's important that Dani negotiate with the nations. Do we have to live in poor business freedoms? Germany, with all its car production and industrial production - is German business freedom impaired? It matters how nations exercise their freedom. It's interesting, speaking of numbers, to see that we Icelanders have made 32 contracts. Of these, we've made 27 contracts, nonstop contracts, through the EFTA or the EEA contract. Icelanders have made their own Hoyvík deal with the Greenlands. Thus, the Ministry of State has been entrusted with two or five contracts, and it is entitled to make good use of the great amount of independence and sovereignty. I'm just asking, "Don't the Secretary of State trust him to negotiate? Doesn't he know how to use the space? Where since the European Union is the issue of freedom of business? Where is it? The European Union has made 55 contracts. We have 32 of the 27 where we're holding, to tea, if we go quiet, EFTA and EES. We have the guts to negotiate with five parties ourselves. Could it be, as I say, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs doesn't know or doesn't want to negotiate, dare to negotiate, or may we not be at the top of all these nations making contracts? Could it be that Iceland's interests are better paid with others instead of being alone? Is that possible? That's what we're looking for at Upstate would even want to do. Work on and contribute to, i.e. that the people will be informed that they will be consigned, whether our interests in Iceland are better protected in international cooperation or in two-sided vacation business activities. It seems that the government does not want to take advantage of the freedom it has or that it does not know how. What we stress is to preserve space, keep opening open instead of closing up the way the government groups want and other categories against the European Union. We say: We trust the nation to take that step. If she says yes once, she can decide again whether the contract that is next to her will be good for her. The Norwegians have had their chance twice, they have twice every 20 years, but the Norwegian governments have trusted the nation to take sides. That's not more serious. However, it is serious to experience a lack of trust and lack of faith here at a council that is out of control for the nation in the end. We trust the nation. We feel that this case is important to a short and long time for a nation, young and old: for Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u47	A respectable president. Yes, trust the people and believe in them. Then I ask, and I ask why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir: Hadn't it been better just to ask the people if they wanted to walk in the EU? And then - if the people said yes, we want to join the European Union - we'll talk about it. I feel like we're starting backwards, starting with our talks, and then going to vote on whether or not we're going in. I believe that having a conversation will be both complex and costly. I don't see any point in having a discussion if the nation doesn't want to join the EU. That's why it would have been ideal just to ask the nation: "Do you want to join the EU? If the people say yes, we'd talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u48	President. I appreciate that question. I'd like to underscore it and, as I came in earlier, that in 2009 it was my opinion that we should have asked the people if the process should begin. It wasn't done, and I think it was a big mistake. We're trying to fix it a little bit. As a follower, we also have to face the fact that the process has not been settled so that it may be of support to the case, i.e. support that we could produce as much and as much information as possible for the nation. I think that the discussion on this subject of our revered people highlights the importance of obtaining information, understanding, mapping benefits and defects before we leave. I'm not going to let false stories and false stories determine how it will be chosen for membership. I want the people to have an opportunity, just as I said in my own time, to say their beginnings, and if they say yes, that they also have the final answer. I think it's a very successful process. It's a very transparent process. This means trusting the people to make a decision for their future, their own interests. So: Yes, I definitely believe this is the right way to do this. I'd like to remind you that no one foreign minister can pull out of his drawer and say in behalf of his political party or home bridge: now we're not going to follow the Senate resolution that was accepted at the time. Congress needs to come to it. The Congress has never detracted, and we're also working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. During the discussion, I decided that 30% of the people wanted to attend this meeting. I'd say 70% were on the other side of the ridge. Therefore, I would say that it would have been much more efficient if we had gone into asking the people if they wanted to join the EU. Hence, it would have been possible to ask if she would like to start a discussion. It would have been better to go that way. It may also have been better for the council to reassemble this council. While the situation is that 70% doesn't seem to be interested in this, but 30% seems to be in there, I can't see how we could justify having negotiations with all the costs and problems it brings. It would somehow be an error. That's what I'm talking about. A senator wouldn't agree with me that it was kind of a waste of time during the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u50	A respectable president. Once again, not completely clear. There are 30% of those that are included that we are applying for the European Union, 40% are opposed, 30% are indeterminate. Once again, this discussion shows that speaking in behalf of others is being played here. All right, it's not as though it's new. But just to be held, there are 30%, 40% to the contrary, 30% to the limit. I'd also like to remind you of what happened here when the head of the Superintendent Party and Independence Party set out for a certain home bridge, as I spoke of earlier, to retract the application. Then they were afraid to take it through the council. There was protests out here. There were 57,000 who signed the declaration that it should continue. What we're trying to say, and I'd like to encourage people here to see, is if this can't be the way to cut us out of this survival we're in, let the nation choose about the rest. It is in the spirit of the one proposed by a foreign minister class. There is nothing far from the ideals of many who oppose the European Union to do so. When we look to Baltrexit, I think it should be a very important interest for young people, that doors are not closed as the conservatives want because they want doors closed. Keeping this open is a matter of great interest for young people. We saw in Bfenit that 70% of those 25 years of age and younger voted against Britain's leaving international witnessing in the EU, 70% of young people. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's important that we, who are in mid - life and even well, keep opportunities open to young people, but don't shut them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and for the opportunity to take these matters on the program here today and, indeed, last week. In itself, it is interesting to follow the case later on at the Senate Committee after the events. However, I wondered, just in view of what I read out of a talk. A senator and a paper with the proposal, two questions. The second question is, just curious to know, perhaps affecting how we view the proposal for this now, how. A senator assesses why the left control process began in 2009/2013 of these materials was headed for aground. What's the food? A senator's view that the process that had begun at the beginning of the ideal period of the left government began in 2009-2013 - and it flowed into the sand before the election, just to recall it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u52	A respectable president. Hv. A member of Congress asks: "Why did this thing slip into the sand? The short answer is: I think that the arrival of the then prime minister simply took a lot of time. We saw that the leadership class now in the government did not stick to what was agreed upon. I think it was a very difficult situation, and there are others in this house who know that story better. But I don't think it's an accident that we're discussing this right now. There may be one strand for the government we have, the government of certain conservative groups, that no one should interfere with anything. The matter cannot be continued. However, I do believe that if we had gone to the national pay we spoke about, I was a messenger of the proposal to make a national pay right now in 2009, we would not have experienced the crisis that was set between the existing administrations and have been in it ever since. I honestly admit that that that's why we're even. to try to take the matter out of this cock, out of this chaos street, whether it was the left administration of its time that created it a jam and then, in addition to the management of the forward-class and independent party, in an effort to cut it out of this chaos. I want less of it. In the Treaty of the Short - Living Government of 2017, both of us supported the European Treaty. At any rate, the assembly would have had the dignity of speaking about the matter and of voting on the matter. [[The president calls.]] This includes a clear recognition that the issues involved had to be resolved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Actually, I don't know exactly what street that was. A senator is talking about. The situation is that for the past eight years, no one has ever considered us to be in any of the European Union discussions, and there have been no discussions with the European Union for eight or even more years. What I'm trying to call for may be what it is. A senator came in part. Of course, because there was no special support. There was no special support for it in the then government, it was completely dissociated in this and the majority of the government against the process. The conclusion I draw from this is that it is rather unwise to go on such a expedition unless it is a reasonable political support and a political burden behind the process. In such a process, we need to make a lot of decisions that can be difficult and can test political conclusions. And if it is started, without any political support, I think it will only be as it was in the winter of 2012-2013, when the parting process was self-involved long before the administration of an independent party and a forwarding party.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u54	A respectable president. This issue has been continued ever since it was deliberately stranded. There has always been a great deal of national support, at least to complete the parting process, to give the nation a chance to look into the matter. I still don't understand why good men and women are opposed to the opportunity to see the treaty, to appreciate its interests. Why is this worse than the Norwegian people who have been allowed to do so twice? [[Up front.]] Why are people so afraid of it? I must also say that governments and members outside the Independence Party have been working to reroute the matter, over and over, but always in very strong opposition to certain groups, and in my opinion, the interests of the people are clearly below the political interests of the groups. All we can do is get back on track with this subject in such a modest way as to ask the people about it, and then we may again have the opportunity to ask. Then all of them rise up on their backs for some reason. I have to say, in this context, Ásgeir's son, Ásgeir Jónsson, comes to my mind, that special interest groups have great authority here. I think there's a direct link to this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u55	President. I hereby recommend a synonym for signing and validating optional accounting with an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. I'd like to propose this synopsis proposal on behalf of what it is. A concierge of Ævarsdóttir Ævardósdótir, who is the first member of the Parliament's resolution because I was in a maternity clinic. I proposed this proposal at Council 147, 148, 149. It's nice to report that at 149th Parliament, at the last assembly, this body of Congress was well discussed in a foreign press committee where many visitors arrived. But for some reason it could not be finished, for she has fallen asleep in a committee three times so far. Let's hope she gets her money here for the fifth time she's submitted. The International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights, which I shall now call the Convention to ease my case, was adopted at the UN General Assembly on December 16, 1966, signed for Iceland on December 30, 1968, and validated August 22, 1979. The opening words of the agreement state that the states that are party to the agreement have in mind to acknowledge man's inborn dignity and equal rights for all people are the basis for freedom, justice, and peace in the world. In the introduction to the agreement, his member States accept the idea that humans are free and fearless, and that they do not have to suffer a lack simply because they have created conditions that will allow everyone to enjoy economic, social, and cultural rights, both civil and political rights. By validation of the Treaty in Iceland, certain economic, social, and cultural rights were granted protection which they had not previously enjoyed. In validation of the contract, a major step was taken in the history of the national rights protection. At the 2008 General Assembly of the United Nations, an optional Protocol was adopted by the Convention, which included the establishment of a legal committee that operates under the contract and has a legal authority against treaties against the terms of the agreement. Work on this publication has been in progress since the 1990's, but after its approval at the UN General Assembly, a signing work began in 2009, and since then 49 countries have signed the book. Of these, 24 countries have joined them. Since 2013 the first decisions have been made. In 1979 the United Nations'two international treaties were validated by the United Nations. It involved an international agreement on civil and political rights and on the other hand on economic, social, and cultural rights. Along with the validation of the international agreement for civil and political rights, the optional accounting was validated by the judicial committee of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. However, the Committee operates only under the international contract on civil and political rights, thus accepting only solutions involving the first generation of human rights. By validation of the optional book, a comparable panel for violations against that contract would be established and economic, social, and cultural rights would thus receive additional protection comparable to those of civil and political rights since 1979. During 2016-2017, a total of the UN Human Rights Council was conducted on the status of human rights in Iceland. The report reviewed how the Icelandic government has followed the recommendations of the previous UN assessment and reported how measures have been taken to improve the state of human rights in Iceland. The report noted that Iceland has validated all optional books with the United Nations Convention on Human Rights, to which it is involved, except the International Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights, a contract against torture and other brutal, inhuman or demeaning treatments or punishments and third book making with the children's covenant. The Icelandic government was encouraged to validate optional records on the agreement, but no particular position was taken in a government report on the United Nations General Assembly on the status of human rights published in 2016, whether the government was heading for signing and validation of the book. Clearly, in recent years and decades the value of economic, social, and cultural rights has increased greatly. Signing and validating the optional book on the contract may help to increase the protection of these rights and to bring similar charges to the rights being held in the international agreement on civil and political rights. It's been a long time since Iceland became part of this contract and confirmed the importance of the rights he protects, both by changes in law and in constitution, and also in the courts. If we sign and validate the optional book on the agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights it is possible for the judicial committee working under the contract to receive details from people in Iceland. Then we take steps to increase the protection of these important rights, which are economic, social, and cultural rights. President. I'd like to finish my business here by reviewing a review sent in by the National Development Organization to the case by three Parliaments ago. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Sometimes civil and political rights and economic and social rights are spoken of. All these human rights, political, civil, economic, and social, however, are bound and dependent on one another. If a person's minimal need to make progress is not met, it is obvious that his chance to use his expression and freedom of speech is very limited and if a person is not allowed to have a home, it is clear that his privacy prospects are very limited and that could be count so long. Thus, economic and social rights and civil and political human rights are one unbreakable whole. It is time we gave these important rights, which are economic, social, and cultural rights, the same value as any other rights. So I hope that at the short time that remains of this council, we will be able to complete this case, which has been very well discussed by a committee. There's no reason not to finish it now, at last. As I say, this is the fifth time this case has been submitted, and there must be a magic number.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u56	Mr. President. So I recommend a bill on the prohibition on oil search, as it would be in English, but it's called a long-lasting name, thanks to the law on the search, research, and processing of carbon. I got a little bit distracted when I watched news last night, but it was remembered that last night there were 35 years from the accident in Chernobyl, the largest nuclear accident in history that marked a turning point in the public and government position around the world. I was thinking because a week earlier, it was 11 years from the Deepwater Horizon BP oil company in Mexico Bay, the biggest oil spill in history. The Deepwater Horizon was sunk to the bottom and for four months and four days from the bottom of a hole some 1,500 yards below the surface of the ocean into the Gulf of Mexico, resulting in massive destruction of life and nature. What is so striking about this comparison is that the public and the government have not abandoned the idea of oil fishing as thoroughly as has happened in 1986 after the accident in Chernobyl, but on the contrary, this year the BP takes on a new oil dump on the Gulf of Mexico. And there's more in the pipes. This oil company is planning a large increase in local production. It may now be ironic that their first new oil dumpr in the region will tap oil from a fountain whose name is Mad Dog, or, by permission, a mad dog. It may be appropriate, since it is difficult for a crazy person to implement such projects in 2021, after all we know about the impacts of fossil fuels on the climate and after what Deepwater Horizon showed us that it could happen if there was a problem with oil processing at sea. It is also ironic that just a month before Deepwater Horizon incident was approved by Iceland's government to set up an invitation on oil search warrants off the coast of Iceland in the Dragon area called the Dragon Area, not in any void, for a year before, the local authorities said it was the year before. Environment Minister Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir, that this was a very bad idea. Of course, in 2009 people realized that running an oil drill into the bottom of the ocean was a bad idea. In addition to the fact that we are at a critical point in combating climate disaster, there is no defence in such projects. This bill has made some adjustments since its first appointment to the 149th legislature. They were asked to freeze oil search laws so that applications could not be removed or searched for fossil fuels while the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeded 350 ppm. It's that number as the climate scientist. James Hansen worked on the time of the Chernobyl disaster as a point of balance in the chemical atmosphere, the limit that mankind needs to achieve to the level of carbon dioxide so that we can expect to have a certain future. The strength that James Hansen says needs to go below 350 ppm for the first time in human history was over 420 ppm at the start of this month. As this strength increases, the more difficult it will be to control the climate problem permanently. A few years ago, James Hansen said that if nothing had to be done for 2021, the year in which it is, it might take 200 years to regain it below 350 ppm. In view of the fact that the previous bill actually proposed complete stop of oil search in Iceland, it is now presented in a modified form that is simply defined as the failure of the law on search, research and processing of carbohydrates by means of regulations to allow Ministers to make proposals for changes to other laws necessary for the implementation of bans on the search and implementation of fossil fuels. A respectable president. Although all the world's countries have convened and agreed that action is needed to deal with climate problems, it is a little long before them and see what really happens. That's the way it is, for example. The UN Environment Organization has compiled up the plans for the largest oil - producing countries and new oil development ideas. If the already listed ideas are combined and realized, the oil production will increase by 2% per year. However, what needs to be done for the stage set up in the Paris Convention is that the production of oil is reduced by 4% per year. These countries are all at the Paris Convention, but their production will result in 120% higher than it takes to meet the Paris Convention's targets by 1.5°C. What does this account for other than the hope of short - term prosperity and blindness in the overall interest of climate change? Still, adjustments are in store. The World Bank, e.g. and various international financial institutions have begun to employ investments in the processing of fossil fuels. This is not necessarily due to moral reasons but simply to cool reality and interest values because the oil industry is a long way off. The oil dumps that BP is going to use in the Gulf of Mexico over the next few years, each one will be operating for at least 20 to 30 years. The production will continue and this production will be looking for a demand for cooling. Otherwise, the capital owners who are behind these infrastructures are faced with losing money. This is what's called the '-carbon lock-in', in the international environment, I don't know the English term for it, a respectable president, I beg pardon. Despite the fact that international institutions oppose investments in the direction of the oil industry, the oil industry lacks the oil industry, such as no money to be seen, for example. Because BP is fully increasing its oil capacity at the same time, as with the BP, as other oil companies, is fully green-washing. That may be the most dangerous situation we face today. So I refer to another international report, Mr. President, which recently appeared in a short report called Banking on Climate Chaos. It gathers the largest banks and financial institutions that finance the oil industry and have done in recent years. It is an investment from 60 banks of about 3,800 billion since the Paris meeting. But these billions are not given just anywhere. The report shows that more than half of the 60 banks have a seat, e.g. Limits to whether or not they're funding oil and gas search in the north. This is an important first step toward stopping this production. North regions are more sensitive than other areas of the world for both climate change and the environmental impacts of oil production, so this is the first step taken from financial institutions. The northern government, however, is in a completely different position. Take it, for example. Norway, one of the largest oil - producing countries in the world and a state with a huge plan for further production of oil over the years and decades. Last autumn, e.g. open invitations in the Barents Sea, one of Norway's northern northern seas, an area that should be closed for further search if the Norwegians were serious by claiming that they intend to take pride in climate. But then oil and energy minister Tina Bru said that the community needs this to maintain the level of employment and the level of value so far. This was stated in the Norwegian Board's press release with the invitation. Again, Mr. President, it's the short vision, the short-term produce that tickles. Tina Bru said this about the same time that Norway's Supreme Court rejected the environmentalist's requirement that continued oil search conflict with the Constitution's right to wholesome environment. This whole situation, this judgment, and this plan sheds such embarrassing light on Norway's situation, claiming to be leading in climate, while continuing to look for more oil at the same time. Then, by the year, Norway's energy agency distributed 61 permission to search oil and gas, 34 in the North Sea, three in the Barents, and elsewhere. The Equinor oil company, once named Statoil, claims to be on a green road, just as BP claims to be. Equinor is e.g. with a sustainable policy of ten times the share of renewable energy by 2026. But there is apparently a 10-fold increase from a very low number because renewable energy will be only 4% of Equinor's production at that point. In his efforts to become the greenest oil society, Equinor also aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the production itself, about half for each dish of oil. However, the company intends to increase oil production by 30 percent to 2030. The release of carbon dioxide in the production of oil is just a fraction of the emissions that will be self-burned by the oil. Equinor opened with a pomp and practition in October 2019 a new oil dump, which has one of the lowest carbon footprints produced by which the drill is linked by sea cable to land, thus exerting electricity from the hydrodynamic activations. But when this drillall, Johan Svervap, gets into full business, it will increase Norway's production by one third. It was started in October 2019. Johan Sverdrup makes about 500,000 barrels of oil a day, and when it burns, it releases some 215,000 tons of carbon dioxide - I was just playing to figure this out. The release of Iceland all year 2019 meant the production of Johan Sverdrupur 22 days, but the release is not available in Norway because oil has been removed and burned in other countries. Norway, however, has the moral responsibility to place this contaminated product in the market, to produce the offer that requires demand. Mr. President. It may be tempting to ask, since Iceland's oil export has gone around, and no one is looking for oil in the Dragon Zone anymore, if there's no need to be in this letter in the library that can be said to be dead. But when this case was made up last time and it was sent out for review, there was a review from the National Energy Institute of Iceland, which gave me some concern. In that town, people only seem to look at the possibility of searching for oil in the Dragon Zone, or at least in 2019 C.E. It was said that the decision to abandon oil was to be precarious on part of Iceland and that it would be a political risk to leave market countries where democracy and human rights are far from our criteria on what is acceptable. So because Saudi Arabia is a democratically ill, Iceland and Norway do not limit its production of oil and gas. I hope this attitude of the Power Agency will change with a new head of energy that takes over now on spring days, knowing that Halla Hrund Logadóttir will take over has a strong background in sustainable development and north-way affairs. However, to ensure that there will be no exercise in the Dragon Zone in the future, it is simply to accept this bill and simply study the oil - search laws. In fact, I think it's strange that I, along with others, have to make that effort. So I count it together, we're the six members of Pirata and three members of the Council together on the case. But it's such a well-developed case that I don't understand that the government has not long removed these laws in its long period of time. Exploded oil is not found, e.g. one of the simplest and most clear requirements of Friday strikes that have occurred here for two years, where young people have called for action immediately, but they have had to wait a long time for action. That group met with the government a year and a half ago and provided a list of measures that might be taken, such as declaring a state of emergency, banning oil search, and other activities. None of this has been achieved. When the government speaks for ambitious climate policy, it must also be shown. And one of the ways that you can show ambition is to change the law. Or it can be noted that when the leader and vice president of the Independence Party said in a newspaper article the other day that in a new energy policy, Iceland and I made it our goal to be independent of fossil fuels no later than 2050. Of course, in this context it is out of the map to produce fossil fuels at the same time that we are trying to make ourselves independent of them. But what this matter is also about, Mr. President, is that Iceland is under the name of a future climate state. It would also give us a stronger position when we speak to our friends, the oil addicts, who still think it is an option to tap new and new oil wells at the same time as they speak for action in climate. Regarding increased oil production in Iceland, to speak clearly at a international level, say stop, immediately stop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u57	Mr. President. I recommend a Senate resolution of a change in the government tax investigator's office. Recently, a bill was approved here at the Assembly Hall, and the law went into effect on May 1. It might seem strange, then, that I was measuring for a change in another direction in the office of an tax investigator. This matter has been on the agenda for several conferences and was scheduled before the CDC, to run a tax investigator under the tax office, came to vote here in the hall. However, I decided to stress this matter, even though it was only to show that it is this way that I and a member of the Union body would have wanted to go, and we criticized the way in which the other laws were approved here and on May 1 were valid. There seemed to be the opening point, when it came to the part of the laws involved in the formation and treatments, that all it had to do was to decide whether an tax investigator should go under the tax office or under the district attorney. I agree, however, that it was more difficult to subjugate the tax research director than to go the other way, but it would have been the best way in which I am here to measure, which is to be granted the prosecution and authority to prosecute the issues it studies. This synonym suggests that the office of the head of the IRS is still a private position, not a division in the Skatti as it is now from May 1. At Council 150, I gave a similar synonym that went on the same thing that could not be resolved. I don't expect this council-sense proposal to succeed. On the other hand, it's just completely clear, and no one's wondering about it, that it's this way I would have wanted to go and us in the United States. We would have wanted to strengthen the office of the head of the tax, not weaken it, and reduce the teeth, as I understand the laws that are now valid in May 1. It's a mild form of punishment, a distribution of expertise, and beyond that, the law is very vague, and I predict that there's a lot of trouble with the project. For over 25 years it has regularly been called attention to the need to eliminate the obvious double action of a study of tax fraud and economic crime and the release of charges against it. This has been discussed in Parliamentary affairs as well as in many reports and analyses. The situation in this country is slow and costly, and it is not in favor of the government or the alleged defendants. Moreover, with a long period of treatment, the risk of a legal case that will result in a milder judgment or even acquiesce, as we have seen. We've watched it on large issues that have been dealt with by the tax research director's office, e.g. in the Panamas, that it was not possible to resolve all those matters, that the office might have been further strengthened to deal with them. The same can be said of the slave's investment route. Because of lack of money and resources, these matters could not be handled as best possible, and that, of course, will not happen when the office is established as a share under the tax, I believe in. I hope, of course, that I'm wrong, but unfortunately, I'm not. In fact, according to the tax investigator's records, despite the fact that the cases from the office are presented according to the terms referred to in the statement, there is not a general review of the cases in that office but, rather, all of the research is under way of the trial performed by the tax investigator and is described in his report on the relevant case. This has been the case, and so it is now, until May 1, that all cases, small and large, are investigated by an tax investigator and ensures a degree of integration. But when the new law comes true, it won't be like that. It's just a question of who's going to handle the big thing, and there's also a question of how to evaluate the big and smaller cases. As I have said, Mr. President, it has been stated in several published reports that it is best to give prosecution to the head of the IRS to speed up the situation and that it would be unnecessary indiscriminate that the local district attorney would take it up and call a party to himself a second time. It's stalling. This has also resulted in the failure of a local district attorney, which is, of course, the problem. But in order to solve it, we in the Union would have wanted to strengthen the tax research office to end the case with prosecution, not to reduce this situation by cutting down taxes as much as most of them have decided to do and that law will go into effect on May 1, as I have done before in this speech. Mr. President. A look at the experience and look at the reports on these matters I think it would be wise to strengthen the local tax research by granting the prosecution's office of the head of the IRS and the legal authority. But as I said before, President, the law has just been approved in a completely different direction, unfortunately. However, I do expect this council proposal to go. The Economic and Business Committee to conduct it until coverage. You see, when the bill was being prepared to run the tax research office under the tax office, these two options were set up, whether it would be better to go in the direction I've recommended, or to put the Agency down and move under the tax, or under the district attorney. There was no need to examine properly the way that has been recommended by many professionals handling these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u58	V.E.G. President. Me and what. A senator is still talking about this case, all of this is just the same thing. This arrangement is presented in a sermon. A senator, contrary to the new release of law. The union is a bit isolated in this case, and I think it's right to get it here, because there's a little bit of misunderstanding, I noticed it in the core some days ago, where these misunderstandings all echo, that the Independence Party or the government groups are here trying to cut their teeth out of tax research and tax control on the new legal law. There's something else. That bill and that law are based on the results of all the leading federal experts in this field on tax investigation, IRS, D.A., prosecution and some kind of court case, if I recall correctly - the Ministry experts, everyone came to this. Simply put, it was the thought of improving tax and tax research. That's the point. The Conspiracy's debate is somewhat the same as when it was to be united, and was combined, the SEC and the Secret Bank. At that time, members of the Parliament felt that financial market surveillance was being reduced. I think it's wrong too. To the proposal itself, I do not comment on the fact that a person believes that something called an tax investigator is taking a lawsuit. You can have that opinion. But by uniting the tax research manager and the tax company, the thought was to ensure that, in a better way,, by the combined efforts of the two parties, all the application is correct and the application of fines and pressures when it is not. There are other matters that we can say are not just a violation of taxes but a violation of general penalties, a violation of 262 st. a general penal law. Such tax violations, which hear under the penal law, are often accompanied by and frequently other offenses that can be linked to organized crime, money laundering, etc. My opinion is that in this case it is not cool that in all the tax offences, which may begin as an ordinary tax examination, the person who is considering it will be perjured. I believe that a criminal investigation is quite another phenomenon and a further prosecution. I don't see it together well enough to see that the taxetti investigators are going to have that kind of power. I think it would be harmful and actually further possible to destroy a case that happens to court. Now I'm not going to say anything about it. I don't look again at the law as a double act. On the one hand, it is possible to complete a administrative level by fines or pressures and then legal proceedings to demand punishment. When such cases come to the district attorney for a criminal investigation and the prosecution for incidents, it is this way, as it were, whenever a case comes to the prosecutor, that it is based on some kind of opinion or kind of evidence that others have obtained or presented. This will be the case, the data will come, and then a criminal investigation will begin. I think it's a good song that we agreed on the other day. I believe this council proposal is a great deal of reversion, but I hope a world of Congress doesn't agree to it in its new release laws. I don't think there's a chance of that in itself. I'd like to have experience with this new arrangement. So it was that the guests who came before the committee and became familiar with the study of tax law and criminal studies were very comfortable with that bill, and I don't think that's for good reason. I believe it is important that we allow tax and tax and tax research and charges and convictions to remain in a better condition than they may have been. It has also been criticized, long before this new law was approved, that punishment is not heavy enough, and that humans fail to achieve the beneficial effects. It may be, then it's not new. However, it is simply another debate, requiring other prime products, or other council proposals. I just want to say at the end: The arrangement that has just been approved, obviously, I feel that I'm willing to support tax research and control, that there is one hand at the tax investigator, although, of course, the tax investigator is relatively independent in that matter. That's over 90% of the cases. There they are supplied, with only a larger case for the prosecution and for the judgment. They connect, I think I can say, almost without exception, more than a violation of the tax law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u59	Mr. President. Me and what. A senator does not agree on this matter. We also did not agree to unite the SEC and the Federal Bank. My main criticism of the arrangement was that the Council of the Council, this important agency that we trust in and build our position a great deal on trust, would be involved in business management because it could reduce the credibility of the Agency, the credibility of the bank manager. Then I quoted from the experience of the late Council on Penitentiary and the Samherja case, which is now in full confidence during the discussion. I was worried that when the FDA went into the banks and financial companies that have to be involved in the operation, those who were defending their interests could reduce the trust of the bank. I was worried about this. Happily, in the smaller part of the approved change proposals for that large bill, we were given special payoffers, foreign and national experts, to accept the experience when there is experience in that structure, and this is certainly improving. Maybe we should have put that into the law that was agreed on at dawn to run a tax investigator under the tax. I don't have a special question but because of it. A senator was telling the rest of us what the United States thought was right for me that the representatives of the United States were doing it on their own. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u60	V.E.G. President. So I think I know best what the Conspiracy thinks, better than the United States itself. I've told you before that I can totally understand the view that the F.A. and the Council is not supposed to come together. I can totally understand the view that the tax investigator is an independent entity that actually is the local district attorney on this sort of thing. I don't make a point with that, I just don't agree with that. I believe that human beings are more useful in the Tax, which, of course, is a wide range of expertise, which also benefit from the IRS and the IRS research. That's why I think being part of that office is good enough for an tax investigator and I really think it's far closer than the feds and the Navy, if that's the case. As I say, it's quite a point of view, these are views you hear in many parts of the country, and it might be easier here to have sullied some of the tax. It's not my burden with the United States in this, I respect this opinion. Because we have a strong tendency to refer to the experts and scientists that I may not do much of, I would like to point them out in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u61	Mr. President. Me and what. A senator has handled other matters. When the government groups attacked changing the environment of the Contestant, we succeeded, and fortunately, we were able to prevent the biggest changes planned. However, a large unregistered fusion following treatment was observed here at the council and the focus of the Continent. Neither did we agree on the treatment at the Nettorium Institute, the facility was proposed to be laid down, and so is the tax investigator. I know we've talked about this before, and I'll face that this has become a thing, on Saturday, the law takes effect. I don't expect any conscious awakening to be here with the executives to abandon that path. But I still have serious and real concerns that there will be trouble when it comes to applying the law. There may be a problem. A senator can see this clearly, but a tax investigator did not envision who was actually going to do research on the big issues. It's not clear in the law, and I'm concerned that when this new bill is started, it will slow down the whole process and it will be damaging to tax research in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u62	V.E.G. President. I've become more of a cohesive than members of the United States. I believe that we can strengthen this surveillance in other places, because neighbour's office was named, this government operation that I'm not minimizing. It is always a matter of trying to say that independent people just want to get rid of some sort of checkout. We want to strengthen it, and we want to use it. We don't have much to do with disability, because I think they're all equally weak. But as for the Contestant and what we just found out, we must not forget the purpose of our surveillance. It's not just to catch someone or punish someone, it's to guide, hold things around, strengthen the system, strengthen the business life, strengthen the financial system, etc. The question in my mind is much more about this: How do we do it? Are we doing this by making use of the human family in larger units? I think so. I don't think it's smart or wise to have some isolated tax investigator in a special facility somewhere out of town, he gets more weak than to be inside the big, powerful bedlock. Because the purpose of this is always the same, as in competitive matters, to ensure that the application is correct and that the rules are followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u63	Mr. President. I recommend a synonym that we accept Anfal campaign as genocide in the Kuristan. The subject of the proposal is, by permission of the president: The Council concludes to accept the Anfal campaign (1986◯1989) as the genocide of the Kuristan and the crime against mankind. In 1948 the United Nations agreed that genocide and punishment should be condemned. Racial murder is a crime of national rights and includes a systematic extinction of a nation or a ethnic group. In the United Nations Treaty of judicial measures for genocide, they are defined as a penalty act, committed in order to eliminate all or part of the nation, ethnic group, race or religion, by killing individuals from that group, harming them physically or mentally, forcing the individual to live up to the living conditions aimed at destroying the group or its part, using forced measures aimed at preventing children from being born in the group, or moving children with authority from among them. Between 1986 and 1889, between 100,000 and 180,000 Kurds were executed in the Anfal campaign carried out by the Ba'ath Party in Iraq under Saddamur Husseinn. The Anfal campaign was carried out at eight points, including During the night Kurda's home was invaded, the household was pulled out, and it was sent to a concentration camp. The process was taken to replace the Kurda population for people of Arabic origins in South Kurdian origins. According to Human Rights Watch of Human Rights Watch, between 50,000 and 1000,000 Czars died in 1986 and 182,000 U.S. government officials believe that high up to 182,000 people lost their lives. Whatever the final number, there is still a wide range of digouts throughout South Kuristan. Saddam Hussein justified Anfal campaign on the basis of interpretations of the 8 sour Koran that Kurdur was actually not a real Muslim but a sinner. Taking cattle, money, sheep, and slender women from homes was legally and justified by references to the 8rd surreal Koran. Anfal campaign continues to exert a major influence on Kurda's situation. Thousands of Kurds are homeless, refugees, numerous children were raised without parents, and on orphans, villages, and territories were wiped out, and they are still being built up, while the remains of more victims are being found. In the case of bacteria, Saddam Hussein was sentenced to death, but not for his role in Anfal campaign. Many Kurds still insist that justice be executed in view of Hussein's failure to be judged for his role in Anfal campaign. The Ba'ath Party was laid down, and in 1991 a scurvy government in the South Curstan led to a cooling rebellion against him. The members of the Ba'ath Party were an emissary of curian towns and villages until 1996. The survivors of the Anfal campaign and the survivors of the camp have been invited back to Kuristan to testify against the defendants in a trial. Britain, Sweden, Norway, and South Korea have already recognized the Anfal campaign as a genocide. Continued recognition and condemnation of the action are an important step in the understanding of international law in order to ensure those who survived the catastrophes of an English - language process, while examples from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Rwanda, and other countries have shown that international recognition of genocide can be the key to the fact that an English - language process, by permission of presidents, has been established. Although the events are closer to us in time than in order to form the Holocaust or the genocide of the Armenians, the importance of recognition is even greater in view of the ongoing human rights of Kurdah, Turkey, Iraq, Syria, and beyond, the continued refugee position of tens of thousands of Kurda, the Kurda, which many know as ISIS, and not least the efforts of Kurdian to gain the Kuristist as their independent state. Mr. President. This matter is so easy, perhaps too easy, for mankind to overlook, as in alas too many similar ways. But as I mentioned and mentioned in the report, it is clear that the process of truth, reconstitution, and justice has made a difference in this kind of treatment to try to create some sort of normal condition for survivors. The fact that the General is taking up this matter now is really easy for us, there is not much debate over whether this has happened. Most of the facts are well - known. There are a number of books that carefully cover all the issues involved, and there are many accounts of survivors who can witness about the event. Nevertheless, in spite of all this document fixation, the process is still missing and is actually going to take its course so that I hope it will be taken seriously on the foreign press committee, but I assume it will actually work out there, and that the matter will be taken out of there quickly and that it will be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u64	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for this proposal, and I'll back her up. It's been over 30 years since the massacre in the Kurds of Iraq took place, and I want to thank you. A senator who was so well aware of how this was done, organized by the government, the Saddam government of Iraq, and no one was spared, either women or children. To this day, the earthly remains of a number of victims have not been identified, and this has, of course, added to the suffering of the many families hurt by these atrocities. As we have seen before, it was at least 100,000 Kurds killed during Saddamur Husseinn's reign, but it is estimated that the victims may be as many as 180,000 and thousands still missing, and whole villages were destroyed. Saddam government didn't argue with Kurður and even use it. chemical weapons against innocent citizens, women, and children. Those who witnessed their atrocities have described how the victims of chemical weapons suffered death in agony. What happened there just 30 years ago is no further, similar to the Holocaust against Jews. And it is only since 2019 that the latest number of tombs has been discovered, at which point four counts of digging were found in northern Iraq. It is also appropriate to look at current Iraq authorities because they have been irreprehensiblely critical of the remains found in mass graves and for lack of interest in identifying the remains of the victims. In some cases, the Iraq government seems to want as little as possible to know about the case and has failed to keep up and punish those who participated in the massacres. It would be natural, therefore, to present it in a clear way to international and international, as well as from Iceland. I welcome this proposal, Mr. President, to acknowledge the massacre of the Kurdians. An effort was systematically made to destroy the Kurds of Iraq. International recognition of genocide, as with the Kurdians in Iraq, is important. It's even on. Arrange a report with this suggestion. This is especially important in maintaining the loss of human rights of Kurda in lands such as Turkey, Iraq, and Syria. I would surely have wanted to see the government stand by this proposal. Our voice should be heard internationally in matters like this. With Iceland, our small international land, we have confidence among other nations. In this sermon, I have previously said that we have a great international opportunity to do good in peace matters, a new opportunity on the part of the Icelandic foreign agency. Hopefully, we will not see it so long as Iceland becomes international peacemakers and will be able to share affairs between warring states. That's certainly what Iceland could do with honor because we're a nation that doesn't have an army and doesn't have military equipment and enjoy, as I said, international trust, it has. is presented in the talk of the chief executive of the United Nations. I'd like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, when discussing the massacre in the Kurds of Iraq, to mention the importance of Iceland's acceptance of the genocide in the Armenians from 1915◯1917. Here at the Council are several attempts made to get a approved Parliamentary decree that the Allied members will acknowledge the genocide of the Armenians. It hasn't worked out, and I'm sorry. Many countries have accepted the genocide of the Armenians. These include Sweden and Denmark, but Iceland is not, unfortunately, including. Recently, the United States accepted the genocide of the Armenians, and it is a pleasure indeed. Last weekend, there was an international anniversary of the genocide in the Armenians. The Armenian Christians were tortured and executed. The people were traveling long distances, even some 1,000 miles [1,000 km], with the result that many died or were given an ark. It was common for the elderly and the sick to be killed along the way, since they slowed down in groups, and the bodies lay along the roads for months. There are terrible descriptions of what people went through in those times. Though it has been a long time, it was a crime against mankind, against all of us, a crime that will never be forgotten. I think it's right to mention this here, Mr. President, now that this fine proposal is under consideration. I just want to say in the end that I really hope this suggestion will be accepted. It would bring honor to the Icelanders. I thank you for this proposal, and thank you very much. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his advance in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir By good speech, by virtue of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, many things were done there. I've been thinking a little bit about this case and this sort of thing, whether there was some kind of a channel or way of putting things right around such a thing. Although it is certainly true that the public example of this type of action and that each country does it for itself, I sometimes feel that it lacks a better global basis to make sure that this will be done both well and quickly when appropriate. I'd like to curious about it by then. A senator, because I now know that he has worked in Palestine and has shown similar interest in matters, whether he has any ideas about how we might try to streamline such a situation. There are so many serious violations of human rights, genocides, crimes against humanity, and other things that would have to be taken care of here at the General Assembly, all over the world. But for some reason, it is very difficult, and really it is just one matter that gets on board. So I'd like to see if there's anything I can do. A senator will play such a little thinking with me about how we could try to make things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. What a fine reflection that is! Actually, I've asked myself that, too, for example. Regarding what I mentioned in my speech, the massacre of Armenians of the Turks, Christian Armenians, why the challenge has been so difficult to make the proposal here throughout the council. There are a number of nations who have agreed to that proposal, but it is quite clear that there is some hesitation and that is expected to be used for interests. Americans have long refused to acknowledge the genocide of the Armenians. It's probably because they don't want Tyrki to pose. They have a measure of interest in the Turks, from there on military transport and other things, and they don't want to confound them. Sadly, such interests prevent nations from acknowledging these crimes because they all see that the action took place and the calamities that they have experienced and how many are hurt in these areas, such as. Regarding mass murder in the Kurður, which is amazingly close to us. What can we do to change this? Senator. I don't have a simple answer to that. Of course, this is a matter of great importance that the major members of the international, large nations take the step needed to accept such things as the Americans have done and follow the other nations. [[The president calls.]] But the most important setting to get such conclusions approved as the prospective United Nations, I would expect, and of course you would try to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u67	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. You're right about what you're doing. Of course, a senator is a political and predominantly catechismic nation. There are some nationalistic interests that may have caused countries to be not brave enough to condemn things that should be easy to condemn, and the recent example of the U.S. genocide of Armenians was actually rare, unfortunately, but a good example. I know a lot of Armenians who were very happy. Hv. A senator speaks of the United Nations in this context, and then you start thinking about some way, there is a Human Rights Council or the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations, and Iceland recently had a seat there, perhaps in some way, that Iceland should make it possible to form an introduction to the Commission as often as possible. But as shown in the talk "Wicked. " A senator may be primarily the government at any given time that presents such a matter to the Council rather than some members. Would there be a situation where Icelandic governments might be involved and should Iceland not be more concerned with using their own small political skills just in the interest of these human rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u68	Mr. President. I'll agree with that with what's happened. Of course, a senator in Iceland should use this opportunity to promote it. We sat in the Council of Human Rights for the first time last year, and there was a test of our ability within that body. In most cases, I think it's been a success. I'm celebrating, for example. Especially since Iceland took the initiative to point out better going to Saudi Arabia, especially to women there. It shows that we are able to do these things, and we have nothing to fear. We are to use this opportunity to promote international affairs and discuss these matters more, e.g. Here at the Senate Hall, how we could help support the nations, e.g. where conflicts have long raged, and many are pained to bind, with a powerful international presentation, for it is of great importance to little nations that listen to them. We've got, as I mentioned earlier, a good reaction to our foreign language when we've established such issues. We have confidence, as I mentioned in my talk. It's all very important, and there's a bad opportunity on our part. There are other small states, and in the United Nations there are nations that make up a group of smaller countries, could be used and delivered as well. [[The president calls.]] There are many opportunities, and surely we should take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-27-87.u69	Mr. President. Just a little short of words. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thornarin, of the honour of genocide the Turks in the Armenians. It's a good point to mention this in this case, because this synonym, of the genocide of the Kurdians in the Anfal campaign, came up from a discussion about a synopsis proposal for recognition of the genocide of the Armenians. Well, that's what we had. A minister of the matter has spoken to someone in the community who said: "Yes, but here you are talking about Armena, what about Kurdadana? This body of Congress became a proposition. Here we go. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson to remind us of this origin of this synonym, which is a suggestion. paritaprevir Tryggvadóttir, who has been asked many times to accept the genocide on the Armenians, was the daughter of Trygva. I think we should just take it. A senator owns the word and brings it up again. They're sisters, they're supposed to go through a foreign business committee together. It would be good to see that at this point the Council would complete the season of election by accepting these two crimes and showing that Iceland is ready to honor the memory of those who fell and thus defend human rights. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson that I have associated myself with Tryggvadóttir Trygvegóttir, she asks, " Is this not how we're going to proceed again?'And that's what she is, and now we're the only ones who are going to get the case first in front of the council?
