ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u1	Iceland's number tells: I have decided, according to the proposal of the Prime Minister, that the Council shall meet at the subsequent meeting on Monday, January 18, 2021. 3:00. To Reykjavík, January 13th, 2021. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome new meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u2	President bids why. All council members welcome to the first meeting after Christmas break and the members of the Generals welcome to the new year. A busy period of time for the rest of this council can be expected, with major issues already being held before the Council. Similarly, unusual circumstances, i.e., can continue to be assumed for some time. The further pandemic, mark our work and the circumstances of the next few months at least I'd like to report that the arrangement for a meeting will remain unchanged and that committees will still be at their telecommunications and that visitors will not be permitted. There's a mask in every house of the Generals. This is essential, for although the situation in the Korean epidemic is somewhat good in this country and vaccination is still in a country where it can enter the standard form. Our guide must be to do all we can to keep the General functioning. It would certainly be a pleasure to be able to sit together here in the councilroom before this council ends in spring, but the future will determine whether it will work out. I hope we can do our work in the coming weeks, and months will continue to have good and upbuilding cooperation, and on such grounds we will continue to do good work. I believe the General has done quite well in special and demanding circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u3	Borist's letter has been sent by a member of the Parliamentary Directorate for the Agency's attention. 4th, including That's the north side. "Dornun, Egilsdóttir of Þórunn, be absent in the near future. As reported on the General Assembly, on Tuesday, January 12, a deputy of the district, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, took up residence at the World Council. The challenger Ingi Pétursson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u4	Consistent with 2 mgr. Forty-seven. The Parliamentary President of the Generals has been presented with a revised programme for the contributions of the prime project on the winter and spring council, as well as the scheduled delivery date. Is the plan available on the II Parliamentis website.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u5	There have been letters received from the following advisers where the request is made in order to give written answers to queries: From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Space. 588, on a fox hunt, on a fishery. 589, flotation, flotation. 592, hunting for birds on wow, yap. 708, for a reindeer hunt in 2021, all from Ágúst Ágústsson; and for the inquiries of the icicles. 616, on greenhouse gas emissions, from Ásmundur Friðriksson. From the Department of Social Affairs for the Sports. 544, about a number of pension workers who receive reduced payments for their former home abroad, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir. From secretary of state and development for the petition. 614, about the presence of troops, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; and the question of cover. 719, about the percentage of non-committal jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic, from Elíasdóttir Frinífjörður Elijahdóttir. I'm from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs for a question on the deck. 517 for the import of cheese and meat, from Seystein, Sæmundsson. From the Ministry of Education and Culture for the Question on the Space. 629, about the sex ratios of classrooms, and in research projects, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u6	In a letter dated January 4, 2021, the president has requested this, as shown in the 8th number of the 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, to the budget board, discuss the report of a state reexamination that is entitled to conduct budgets, January to September 2020, total sizes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u7	A meeting is agreed that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Parliament assumes that the verbal financial and economic reports can be concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u8	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social and Juvenile Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u9	A respectable president. Today on Friday, the Work Programme published figures on unemployment in December. Sadly, those numbers are sad. The overall unemployment rate was slightly higher in the national language, 10.7% but 10.6% in November. That was the case with 21,000 people without employment at the end of the year. There were more than 5,000 partial responders. If we take this group with us, we have a total non-employment of 12.1%. A total of over 26,400 are such people without employment or in part. More than one year of work, more than 4,000 people have been without work, and 6,600 without work for 6◯12 months. A total of less than 11,000 have had no work for more than six months. A similar figure in December 2019 was 3,800. In this way, nearly three times as many suffer from long - term lack of work today as 2019 do. The most jobless is in Southnes, more than 26% among women, and more than 21% among men. It is second best in the capital area, men in the greater part, 12%, and women at 11.5%. This year's goal is for hundreds of casualties. They must tell themselves to the countryside, search for a team forward. Only in the town of Rhines will there be about 200 unsatisfactory people in the current year. These are shocking numbers, and behind them are human beings, 1,000 citizens in this country. The anxieties of living and poverty, the people who are looking for a poverty trap with their children. We at The Gang of the People want every available means to save these people while we're getting out of the Covid-19 code. So I ask the highest. Social Ministers: Does the government and the Ministry consider the possibility of extending the period of unemployment from 30 months that it is now so that there is any hope for these people not to become very poor?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u10	President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Before I answer the inquiry, I'd like to say we've undergone multiple operations. Now before Christmas, it was even. There was an increase in improvement, and we also extended an increase in the payloads that accompany the unemployed children. We've got an extended income-related period and a part-time improvement, like whatnot. The senator crossed, has been very important in this position. Of course, from day to day we are observing how the epidemic continues. It is clear that when we have one industry completely in freezing, which is the largest industry in recent years, you are waiting for it to resume and all the activities that have been laid down in shops, services, etc. Because of the epidemic. When it comes to the extension of a new period of improvement, we're looking at it every time. The conclusion before the year was not to take that step. Nevertheless, we have had a very tight conversation and cooperation with local community services. The Ministry meets very regularly with community service partners and receives all information from them. We have all the latest statistics from the Labour Services on how many people are finishing their rights but at this point a decision to extend those rights has not been made. I'd like to say, however, that as the epidemic is running longer, we will continue to have action. That's what I've said about all the operations we've brought that will not rule out any further operations in late stages. So, have we looked at this? Yes, we've been considering this, but there's no way we have a decision to extend it at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for Answers. They were pretty dreary. Check this out? It's just like saying to people: Eat what you eat when you're out. But there's nothing to go on with. There's nothing to bother with these people. There is a large group of people waiting in rows for food, and this group will be added. Social reformers are in deep trouble because it is all received in order to reduce their benefits. So it's just a poverty trap. It doesn't mean to say that you're going to take a look at it because it's not about taking a look at it when saving companies. Then something's done, it's made. Now is the time to stop considering the matter but to do something and make sure that people do not have to follow a meal. The least we can do is make sure nobody's starving in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u12	A respectable president. Of course, we've taken many measures to secure the social element. There are measures taken by Covid-19, many job practices and I traced some of them to the previous level. We've also taken many social actions that have been born in cooperation and conversation between the Ministry and the community services of the community that have the services to all the most vulnerable groups in the country. When we're working on it, it's a good idea. A senator here quotes as an extension of a reformal period, of course, is also viewed in conversation and cooperation between the members as the service of these delicate groups. When a minister says that there is something in his examination, he has found that some of the things we study are becoming more real and that some things do not. We're simply on the watch. We are going to hold people in this epidemic, and as it prolongs its length, we will take further action. This has been demonstrated in the past year, and so will we in the year that is now starting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u13	A respectable president. Happy New Year. Big projects and important ones, some of them, are ahead of them and require a measure of cooperation, cooperation, information, and trust, especially when it comes to trust between government parties. We're talking about steps for the private administration of Iceland banks, sales for a share in Iceland Bank, and it seems to me to be a firm fixture in the left green. We're talking about such issues as preventative and preventative measures. We're talking controversial. V.E.G. The secretary of the environment came to our meeting at the council for reanimation and covered the central national park. We're talking about the constitution, the media and the team members together. All of these are those that have been more and less in the government covenant and are now on the government program. This, of course, is vital when it comes to a solid political entity. On the other hand, I would like to tell the prime minister and the left movement an offer to praise that as you look over the terms of the election - people may well begin to get misunderstood in every way, but I still have to mention what is well done - it seems that there is a firm anchor in the administrative work when it comes to left greens. They are not turning away from the government contracts, and they are looking at items in Iceland that need careful attention, and I know that a minister has ambition for it and some other factors while there's more trouble to form with the largest government organisation, as well as that of longer solidarity. I would like to ask, in view of the fact that the prime minister said between Christmas and New Year that the failures between the ruling classes, between the left green and independent groups, did the prime minister now regain complete confidence in the Independence Party after she declared that there had been a certain failure in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, daughter of the inquiry, and took advantage of the opportunity to wish a happy year for all members of the council. I forgot earlier at the beginning of a meeting. The words are just like that. A senator points to the subject that appeared on Christmas Eve and is taught at Ásmundsal and the highest. And on that occasion, I said that such an incident, this incident, could affect trust between the government parties. The nature of this matter is just that because these are delicate times in which we live, sensitive social positions, and high standards that all of us are putting on one another in connection with preventative measures. But I'd also like to say that these groups cooperate, like why. A senator knows, it's been good in this terms period. I also said on this occasion that although this incident disappoints me and could affect my confidence, it was also an example of some cases that could be resolved. That's how I approached the assignment, that we would process this case together. V.E.G. One minister apologized for this incident and did so immediately and did not wait for it, explaining the situation. Of course, we've been discussing it ever since. Because of what? A senator simply asks honestly: Has this affected his confidence? I was worried that might happen. But I believe we made a good deal of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u15	A respectable president. There might be a little devil in you, and I might try to turn this out. But I'm going to say, because the situations I mentioned earlier are so important, it is so important that we work well across categories, that we gain a sense of cooperation and trust in this important matter across the line, that I am glad that the prime minister has worked a little with the rest of the administrations, or quite the Independence Party. It is important now that we discuss sales at a stake in Iceland Bank, when we are dealing with a central nation park, and especially the Constitution, to feel that there is a firm trust in the administrations. Then we will see how that trust eventually returns to the Hall of Congress. There's talk of a horse shop. I'm not going to believe that it is, but I'd rather be a bold minister, especially if there's complete confidence between the constitutions, it's good to get it out, to be careful in these big and great matters; in this case, in the prevention, in the vaccines, in the middle of the nation, in the constitution, in the constitution, in order to sharpen our colleagues so that we can do what we can do as best from this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u16	Mr. President. It is now that whenever the election approaches, there are tensions in this hall, I've learned it in the years I've been here. I know it won't be any different this time than the other times, and I'm not really worried about it. I just enjoy a little bit of excitement at the Senate Hall. But that's right. One senator says, there are big projects ahead of us, many of whom have been very well prepared. Hv. A senator here referred to a bill on a highland park that has been under extensive discussion throughout the terms, including in a transliterian committee that covered that area well. It is important that this work continues at the council scene, and that is true of all matters. A senator mentioned. They come here for further discussions. They may be made changes, as will undoubtedly be done with that bill, CDC, constitution, and anything. But there's a lot of work behind these bills. I hope, though there is only tension in the chamber, that the council will continue to approach the situation in a way that makes them work well and make them better in their dealings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u17	Mr. President. After this, we will discuss the government's plans for selling to Iceland Bank. A prime minister's opinion is needed in a language related to the sale and needs to be considered serious. In addition to the data received by the Bank Office, there is a chapter entitled Sala the Management Board of Iceland Banks. It tells the Bank Office that after meeting with Iceland Bank, there is strong evidence that Iceland's bank will sell outable loans before the bank is sold. Last June, there were a total of 27 billion loans. Mr. President. Is borrowing, people, and businesses really involved, especially in tourism, having to deal with some collected company downtown for the reorganization of their loans? Are you going to introduce the U.S. style where loans are sold to collect companies at the low prices and these companies will assault the debt to the grave? Are the heads of state banks, government agencies such as the Bank Management Board, which are under the secretary of finance, really suggesting that there be a local body of tax collectors, vultures, who are allowed to attack people and companies that have been misunderstood because of the viral epidemic? Have they forgotten the Drama, where debts due to the collapse were not supported and needed a long lawsuit to achieve their rights? Has it been forgotten that when the Department of Economics told the collection company Drome to go to law and Dúm said he didn't have to? There was a drómi known for its lack of mercy and collections to the lesser power. V.E.G. President. Is this the careful planning of the government so that the bank can be sold? To send citizens and businesses into business with Iceland banks, agencies that have been miscalculated by the virus epidemic, in the stockyard collects companies in town? Is this government policy, chief? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He cites additional data that came to the bank office's table and suggests that the Bank Office suggests that loans are to be sold separately from the Bank of Iceland. It's not part of the suggestion that's been on the table at the highest. A secretary of finance who is simply about to record a quarter of Iceland's bank open and transparently. Hv. A senator asks about some data I haven't seen, just so they say. But as this has seen me and my movement, because he calls for our position, we have a policy in the affairs of the financial system. We have stressed strongly that the line of defense will be drawn about investment banking, as is the bill now for Congress treatment, and I hope the Council will complete its payment. We have further policy that Iceland's National Bank remains owned by the State, and this emphasis can be reflected in the revised government policy and we believe it may be wise to sell a share in Iceland banking as long as it is done in this open and practical manner as suggested here and it is fully equal. In terms of this question to the senator, I just have to say that I have not seen the evidence he quotes here. Selling some special things out of the bank has not been discussed. This has only been discussed on our part by doing this in an open and transparent manner, as suggested by the proposal made to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. Committee members of the financier's office went to the bank office to find additional data and particularly to see if they could sell any units out of the bank. Then the Bank Management answered clearly, and this is on the bottom of the page. 20 in her extra data, that's recommended, and there's a lot of evidence to show that you're selling the savings library out of the bank. So who are the buyers? Yes, there are natural collected companies that are useless in their collection procedures. This will take on the underdemnity, particularly people and businesses associated with tourism and viral epidemics who need to go to collect companies and report their affairs, try to get their payaccounts, etc. It's natural unannounced, the highest. Prime Minister. I wish for the highest. The prime minister will answer whether it will guarantee it and guarantee that it will not be, that this library will not be sold out of the bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u20	Mr. President. Likely, these loans are part of the bank's loanbook. It may be that the government banking agency, and I don't exactly follow her daily activities, believe that it is desirable to sell it in some special way. It's not part of a report at the top. Secretary of finance who went to the Committee. This is additional information, such as the whale. A member of this body has informed and just has not been a topic for discussion in the area of the government or the Ministry Committee on Economic Affairs. However, I feel that there is every reason to consider this matter, in the light of words. Senator. I'd like to then remind you that this sale we're discussing is not asking for tomorrow. Algill's committees are returning their opinion, and after that, they take a long process in which there are a number of issues of opinion that will have to be handled, including: position after the bank's annual resolution, assessment of how it stands at that time, etc. I think it's important in all this discussion that we talk about it the way it is. [[The president calls.]] It's not a matter to be finished tomorrow, as it might be part of the discussion. There are many opinions left. This is one of them and I'll get some information about it after this inquiry. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u21	Mr. President. We know that employees in public institutions are endeavoring to pay the streets of those who enjoy their services, but sometimes conscientious employees are involved in following rules and laws that are not at all reasonable. It was important to see how the laws and rules are changed. And now, as the rules for learning education were changed, new requirements not previously included in this regulation of academic loans are being added to students, students are now expected to work on a legal contract in order to be able to obtain money from the fund as owners of a general housing market. This change was not advertised, nor was any particular presentation presented to students. So on January 8 of last year, students received a letter from the Education of Education to submit their church contracts within 14 days or to expect their student loans to be recalculated. I'd like to ask the highest. Education minister to the number of students who received a message that their student loans were recalculated because they were unable to submit this registered contract. Why was this change not better introduced? It seems to have surprised many.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u22	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for showing this interest in the Education and for supporting us in this way of the great system change that took place. In terms of contracts and plagiarism, the Education will demonstrate flexibility. This is one of the changes in our system, and it is very important that we are not surprised by changes. But this was one thing that was accepted at the time. Of course, I've been in touch with the education fund and reiterate that we're gonna be flexible. We're in amazing times these days. Students, teachers, and the whole school community have worked very hard to make everything work for us in our education. We've seen people graduate. Hence, education applications have grown tremendously. I can assure the General that we will be flexible. We took on this tremendous system change that had been attempted for many, many years. Since she succeeded, it is vital that we make sure that we meet students at these amazing times, and that will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is glad that it says that the education fund will be flexible to those who had this preconceived deficiency because this is a prerequisite failure that could even result in a loss of education. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister a little bit better on how she intends to respond to the situation that has developed because of this inconsistencies at the learning fund. The inconsistencies are that when you signed a contract because of loans in 2021, tax returns were sufficient to earn the right to rent, but now at the beginning of 2021, students are charged with terms of contracts reported in Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u24	A respectable president. This situation is very good. Of course, I've been in touch with the Board of Education because, as shown in the case, it was. The senator surprised someone. We do not want to surprise people, so of course we respond in a positive and upbuilding way. And that is what we are doing. Besides, I'd like to reiterate that the project has gone on especially well. The vast majority of all students prefer to apply loans to the education fund, so this system change in which the government has made its way is absolutely successful and, of course, we are going to extend a laity of service and meet students. It is impossible in my mind, and I reiterate that there will be some elimination because of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u25	Mr. President. Now there is a lot going on, and right now the government's plans may be to sell a share in Iceland banks of undisclosed size. Understandably, this has caused considerable concern in society, and it seems that no demand for that operation is possible for those who will make the most of it. Many people ask themselves, " Why is there so much urgency? ' A further example of home - to - house time pressure is the close of the time set by the council to review this point. A normal procedure for such a major irreversible operation is to establish a premise, i.e. what has to be met so that it is likely that the operation will succeed and define what is meant by precisely achieving success and not going to start until these conditions are met. The only ground that the government seems to have suggested is that it be in the Constitution and therefore it is subject to election action. There have been no criteria for acceptable costs and benefits, economic premiums, stability conditions, conditions for buyers, prices, etc. If such conditions had been established, the council might have at least evaluated if they were good and if they had been fulfilled. If there are no other conditions, there is evidence that any concern for yet another privatization process is warranted. Pirats and I are not on the basis of selling this part of Iceland banking, but for us it's key that it's done on the right and professional grounds and in the transparent process. It is not enough to call the process beneficial to do so. The data must really be published. It looks as if it's going to be as omnipresent and unprofessional as it can be. There's a reason to ask the highest question. Prime Minister: What is the basis for the plans for sale? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is there any requirement for it? [[The president calls.]] And when did the government intend to make the conditions and grounds public?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u26	Mr. President. This particular matter is not to be discussed here for the first time, since it was also under discussion early in 2020 at the level of the Ministry on Economic Affairs to attack a stake in Iceland Bank. It's interesting that the exact same language appeared then, i.e. that it was just the wrong time. Yet, most people did not object to selling an item at the bank - or perhaps not, since selling something at the bank was acceptable, but this was just not the right time. And I feel like I hear it echo again; most people don't object at the bank, just not at the time. I can't agree with that as a boy. A senator says that this will follow only this one line of the constitution. I'm going to let me remember that here was a white book on the financial system, and she got a considerable discussion at a Senate Hall. It included many very important points, others controversial and critical. Yet, it is not possible to say that this has not produced much discussion about the future of the financial system. We're done -- and it knows what to do. A senator as well as me, who has sat in an economic and business committee at any time, right? --just over the past few years to make significant changes in the quality of the financial system in Iceland, changes, as shown in a very detailed report that I made after a request. paritaprevir Björn Gunnarsson Leví, who have made this system a completely different system than it was to form when these issues were under discussion in the early part of this century. One of the factors involved is the bill discussed at the Parliament on the Defense Line of Investors. I just can't agree with the premise as long as possible. In the inquiry, a senator proposes that this is a motion that falls from the sky, and there is no discussion here. Here, there's been quite a debate over the financial system. State policy has been revised, like what. A senator also knows, and these plans all lie simply ahead of him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I just don't recognize this transparency as a dog. A senator witnesses here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u27	Mr. President. I didn't say time. I said conditions and conditions. These criteria and conditions are not available. I don't know why. The government makes it appear that the White Book is a neutral literature, which includes answers to all of the secrets of the universe rather than being the result of a particular political policy process in which much was given as the source of the work. But I ask again: Why can't a simple check list be created for such operations and then attack them and that only if the conditions are met? Why not? Why does this rush have to be done before elections, because it seems to be the plan, rather than agree on a transnational time frame over a longer time frame, as it has been done, e.g. In Norway? And why does the government want to launch this estate at prices, at 15 minutes before elections and in the middle of the most economic low in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u28	Mr. President. Now I have to say, it sounds like it's what I'm talking about. A senator is talking about timing, and I've heard him mention them before, but not exactly in his previous inquiry. On these issues there are absolutely clear laws, very transparent and clear laws that I took part in setting up in the government of the left movement, the green supply and the United States, a law that applies to the sales treatment of financial assets of the state. A bill to their law was submitted here by reason of reason. paritaprevir It was a new Harðardóttir daughter by then the Secretary of Economics and Economics. This set up the government's bank administration, which will administer this government's property. No one needs to wonder how this will turn out, for she has made a very clear suggestion as to how she makes arrangements for the sale process. As I learned earlier, the decision to start the sales process is only being made, not a final sale decision. It is a process of studying the market value of the bank and whether the right time is now to sell this object that has been targeted at a quarter share. The data of the Bank Office show that there are a large number of factors that affect the final outcome and whether the circumstances are recognizable to sell this object, the factors we cannot predict beforehand which will be exactly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is the work that is now being done during the council. I would have thought this would be totally clear and would actually be very useful, as it is defined in law since 2012. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u29	A respectable president. In mid - December, with heavy rains on the East Coast, we saw pictures of an alpine take away part of the beautiful, peaceful village on the Seysters. Those pictures were terrible, and we all felt for the people who live there. God's mildness was abundant, and no one's body was injured, even though many people may have had to contend with trauma and insecurity. Sadly, when the earth fell under parts of the history of Ash in Norway, it did not become the same god of God. So I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity here and ask the highest possible question. Environment and Resource Minister: What response has been made to the Ministry's response to the alfort of Sufficiency? How have negotiations been conducted with the local community? I'd also like to ask about the risk assessment and our defenses on natural disasters. I'm actually asking the highest. Minister: How do we prevent disaster from being comparable to that of the people in Ash, Norway?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u30	V.E.G. President. Happy New Year, everybody. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and agree with her that no one would die in the misery that fell upon Sufjörður before Christmas. I would like to say that studies had been conducted in this area on the possibility of landslides and on their basis a risk assessment was reviewed and confirmed by me in March 2020. That was the basis for the space that took place there. However, these were landslides, which were much bigger and more extensive than expected, and that is one of the lessons that now teach us that we need to look at in order to reevaluate this danger assessment. However, as we saw in the case of Eskimo, risk assessment needs also to be reviewed there and in general, where urban lands are expected. This is a very important job that needs to be started, and I have actually begun, for earlier, I put extra money in the Weather Service research on landslides, but it is also important that the matter be considered specifically at Seyster's disposal. This is started by the Weather Service and has also purchased a set of research tools to keep track of these factors. As soon as temporary protection is being worked and the process of rebuilding the risk assessment has begun. It is quite clear, though, that much work is ahead, and we will have a preliminary report in spring that will determine what can be avoided, one of the factors that are being worked on right now. But I will continue with the answer afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister responds and wants to impress the highest. Minister and government, all of these projects. They are important, and we have seen them in recent years. There was a great storm here last winter, and we saw avalanches flooding over the protection parks in Flatturus, we now saw landslides in Seysters, and we know that the extreme weather conditions have become greater. The government has agreed on ambitious climate goals to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. This is vital, and all of us need to unite in the ways in which it is pointed. But I'm actually thinking about how we're prepared to live with the changes that have already taken place and will be affected by climate change. How do we ensure the safety of people in our country in the days ahead, where we see these extremes, and we know that our infrastructure needs to be prepared to deal with much more extreme weather conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u32	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. Senator and thank you for the importance of the government. That is exactly what we made in the past year's above - absurrection budget, which included a $1.6 billion budget. That was a proposal for the government, and it was approved here at the General Assembly. It is a joy to see that this step has been taken. I just want to pick up the point on climate change and how we can be prepared for future changes. While it may be difficult to associate individual events such as this directly with climate change, we do know that permafrost on mountain slopes is likely to decrease with rising temperatures and increased rain instead of snow. These are all factors that should be considered in this context. This is part of adjusting to these changes. We've got work to do. A panel of environment and resource services and several other schemes is working on adaptation policies to climate change and on the basis of these measures will be implemented. All of this will make a difference to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u33	A respectable president. We vote here to allow a report request to be submitted on the activity of the Roadmaker. Likely, the need to monitor the activities and effectiveness of Roadmaking has not been so great today. Last year, several accidents and injuries occurred as a result of road work as much money has been spent on transport in connection with the government investment programme during the pandemic. Pirats and four other members of Congress, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Inga Sæland Land, request that the government accountant make an assessment of the operation of Vega. The request is made up of several factors that will be considered specifically. First, there are factors to be evaluated in the management and management of the Roadmaker. Secondly, factors relating to the management of public funds and road therapy. Third, information regarding the safety of road users on the highways of the country and the monitoring of roads. [[The president calls.]] All of these are vital factors that we need to examine. [[The president calls.]] I encourage Congress to accept your report request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u34	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a subject that has in one way or another been on the program for every government that has worked since the fall of 2008. The situation today, that most of the Icelandic banking system is under custody and that of the State has never been the goal for a longer time. On December 18, last year, I agreed to the government's proposal for sale on the property of the state of Iceland. In the past, the matter had been discussed in the field of Ministers on the economic issues and the restructuring of the financial system and presented in the government. Its report was submitted to the Parliament's committee in accordance with law separation and has been discussed by the budgetary and the Economic and Business Committee. In 2009 the government's legal office was set up in the hands of the government of the United States and the left movement was ◯ green bid. The banking board is now taking possession of the government at Iceland Bank, the Lands Bank and the East Bank, and the Saviour Fund in accordance with the State Bank County and the State's tenant policy at any given time. The law even says that. that the Bank Management Board should focus on the restoration and construction of a powerful domestic financial market and contribute to an active and natural competition on that market. As regards sales management, there are laws on the sale of financial property, which were adopted here at the Council in 2012. To them there was a word. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, then a minister of finance. The progress we will discuss here began last December and is, as we have considered, fully in accordance with the regulations set out in 2012, whether in terms of the setting, timeline, notice, or other factors. In a paper with a bill to the law as it is. In fact, a senator recommended a comment. of the government's ownership, by permission of the President: Thus, this new possession is not due to a targeted policy of increasing the affairs of the state of finance markets but to the consequences and responses to financial collapse. This does not mean that the State will become a long-term owner of a financial share but will free them from selling, excluding a minimum share in the Lands Bank, hf. which is now in the majority share of the state. At the time these words fell, the State had only a 5% ownership share in Iceland's bank, but later the bank became fully available as part of the stability of Glitnis's claimors. This expeditation was not linked with a policy of expanding the share of the state's affairs. Rather, the stocks to the State were put forward in order to exorbitant the depositors and secure the demands of this fallen bank more readily than anyone else's property. These former bank owners may have searched for new owners for many years without any government showing any interest in entering that form as a potential buyer. This is worth considering at this point, as well as as as it is directly bound by the law of releasing the State's ownership share in Iceland banking, promoting active, natural competition, and distribution of property. It is not only in the current law but also in the government's ownery policy for financial enterprises and in addition to their standing in the Mosaic Law of this government. The importance of reducing the possession of the State is made clear in White Books on a vision for the financial system, a product of extensive, careful professional work, was discussed here at the General Assembly at its time. The White Book concluded that the same party, including the State, is out of place to ensure competition. However, it also says that the state is the ideal owner of a part of the business system, and in that spirit it states in the government's policy for financial enterprises that the State will remain the owner of a significant share in the Lands Bank for a long time. On the other hand, about Iceland Bank, the landlord's policy states that its sale is being sought. A respectable president. Iceland Bank's position is strong, both financially and marketing. The bank's capital is high, and profit is now based on regular activity rather than on irregular teams, as was true some years ago. A credit report by Standard & Poor's 26th May last year for Iceland Bank states that in addition to strong personal positions, there are many factors of the bank's strengths, including the U.S.A. in a high hedge rate, a strong market position on the domestic market, and a limited financial need for a bond market. Even more favorable are external circumstances in spite of the present pandemic. The current financial status committee of last year makes it clear that large banks are generally strong in spite of large financial contributions during the past few years. It also says that banks had access to funding, and they have a high level of resistance to cope with the negative consequences of the epidemic. The analysis of professionals also shows the strong position of banks, allowing the price assessment of the market in Iceland banks to reflect all these strengths. However, it is reasonable to ask, " How can the Korean epidemic affect bank prices in general and in general market conditions? ' In this regard the European bank stock can be considered to have increased substantially in recent months. Letters of stock in European banks have increased by 37% since the collapse of the Bank Management Board from the last proposal to sell in Iceland, which was in March 2020. If we look closer, we can see that the amount of stock in Arion Bank has never been so high, has never been so high from its market registration, and has been increasing in recent months and even in recent weeks. Also, in this regard, the index of the main list of Kalhal has increased by about 60% since March last month. It can also be noted that since a pandemic has been completed successful stock tenders, including with Icelanda, with a large involvement in the public. These invitations give us good promises for the rest. Despite the fine conditions described here, however, it must not be assumed that Iceland's banks, with the strong positions he has, will remain some kind of stable source of large money to the State for a long time, will not be sold. This should be kept in mind that until 2016 the profit paid by the bank was substantially higher than the profit of regular business. However, most of the trade was due to a positive change in values, but it is clear that the period of such extravasation has passed. When discussing planned sales treatments, it is important to remember that the legal and regular environment we live in today is a product of a lot of work, a great political treatment, and reflecting changes necessary to make and have taken effect. The extent to which banking has changed substantially, and I want to tell the better, both in this country and elsewhere in Europe since the 2008 collapse of the banks. In addition to investors who intend to have an active share in banks, the requirements for monitoring have increased dramatically. Trends requirements have increased substantially, but in the context of this, it can be noted that according to the latest European banking board risk indicators, the number of banks in Iceland was the third highest in Europe. There are also the rules of self - interest, of loans available, and of financing rates in foreign currency. All of these are things that have changed for the better. We've got a lot of work to do. Finally, we took the step in uniting the Fed and the Federal Bank, which was at the beginning of 2020. Finally, I have submitted to the General Parliament a bill suggesting that the office of a systematic business bank be restricted, which would like to minimise the risk of depositors and state funds from the business banking system. Today, the market is healthy and in no way comparable to what was known for the 2008 collapse of the bank. All discussion, therefore, should take into account these changes. I allow me to refer here to some significant assessment of the White Book, as well as to the fact that a special booklet was published by the Organization of financial companies, or, in fact, a book that might be said more about all these changes a few years ago. There's something else that's changing. What's changing for financial companies, not just Iceland, but international, is simply their competitive environment. Along with rapid technological development and the development of financial equipment, banks need to remain constant on their toes in order to avoid becoming under. I don't think it's a good government to lead the developments ahead or to bear the risk of these dramatic changes. I think it will be better if others prepare and lead as new financial owners, the new time we see, since nowhere else in Europe is the government's activity at the bank market almost as much as in this country. In fact, all the way to countries such as China, even North Korea, has to be searched to find the likes of the government's holding on finance. Here we can bear in mind that the possession of the State will still be significant in international comparison, even when Iceland's entire bank is sold. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, this step is required only to sell a portion of the bank, which is to be done in an open outing. So we sell in the bank while registering it to a domestic stock market. In this context, we have often been directed to sell about a quarter of a share. It may seem to us that the ratio will be higher or even lower, all by demand, but it depends very much on the future process. A fourth part is a reference ratio linked to the human entry into the initial record. It may take an exception to record less, but it may also be appropriate for the state to sell something a little more. We'll have to have it done as the Bank Office has suggested, but we'll put it right here in the report to the council to count about Section four. I'd just like to move on with the future. Many things have been said about that. It's, for example. During the discussion of these days, the state is on its way to sales in one green bang and uncertainty about various factors. The situation is very black when it comes to the loanbook and public interests are not involved. The reality is that there will be no final decision with what is being discussed here. At this point it is being discussed that a detailed, careful process will be followed. In this way, there will be consultations with experts for the process of sales, dependencies, investment promotions, value evaluations have to be performed and advised. It is first after this important preparation, this important development, that final decision will be made. The decision will depend on the circumstances they are in at that point, on interest investors, on the price, on the bank's compensation, and on the general market. These points are reflected in the government's memorandum, which has been submitted to the council. This means that the bank is checked inside and outside, if you can say so, whether it is its property, its contribution, the other important aspects of the operation. Thus, there will be a new annual calculation, a clearer picture of the development of the pandemic, a series of vaccinations, and we will have a better view of the economic demand. All of this will be better when final prices, tenders, and other data are available and built. If, in time, the government expects an acceptable price for the sold items, the sale will simply be postponed or dropped. This would be the case with any intelligent owner of an enterprise under comparable circumstances. However, by opening the planned discharge process, the desired transparency will be guaranteed and is necessary for the normal exchange that can be achieved. Despite all that has been described here, the bank's good status and the practicalness of external circumstances, the clear conclusions of white books, in accordance with the laws and policies of the State, still voices, and voices are being heard certain that the bankers are not timely, despite all that they hear. This is not gonna be the first time that you hear it. These voices have been heard year after year, in fact, every time banks can be sold. Inevitably, it is suspected that this position is, not about time, but about ideologies. It cannot be overlooked that those who talk about getting the part of the state of finance are just the same ones who want the size of the state as much as possible, generally speak to higher taxes, question the personal enterprise, and even count it now, in the most economic situation we've gone through over a century, and in spite of a tremendous compromise of government funds, have a reason to increase significantly in the business of government. The conclusion that this is not the right time, therefore, is, in effect, a cover of those who simply want to expand their government. A respectable president. With the proposed sales treatment, the public's investments, pension funds, and other investors increase at the same time as banks'holdings are moving in agreement with existing laws and long - term goals. This may be summed up in the fact that we simply aim to have healthy financial assets in Iceland. It matters for the competitive environment that we have created for financial activity and that we have reduced this from the State's risk. At the same time, we remind us of the huge cost of making a bank of huge sums of money from the public. The funds released by the sale thus benefit from continued government support and resistance measures, reduce the need for loans, and make it more possible for us to engage in social profit - making investments. The sales are designed to increase the confidence of investors and make it easier for us to raise loans for the financial wealth, while our trustworthy loan policy has been well - motivated and trusted in the market over the last few weeks. In view of this timely, not untimely, on the contrary, there is a suggestion for sale on the property. Now's the time. A rationale simply recommends having the sale of property items in the bank and at the same time registration of the bank to meet our goals that we have been able to do well together over time, about transparency, distribution of assets, etc. A respectable president. As we grow in vaccinations by Icelanders and, in fact, neighboring nations, we finally see better times. The success of supporting homes and businesses in recent months is based on a solid basis for responsible management. Rather, such a course is to make right decisions at the right time, to minimize risks, and to minimize unnecessary debt by the State. By means of the government's financial program adopted toward the end of the last year, the way is at the level of government funds. The main objectives of the financial programme and the support of other government measures to minimize economic damage and to ensure the health and safety of the citizens of the country. It is in this spirit that the government has won all this ideal period of spiritual interest, and in that spirit we will continue. It will come to an improved standard of living, trust, and belief in the economy. Therefore, an important step is being taken, one step forward to a better life span.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u35	Mr. President. It is unmistakably true that the economy here at home and, indeed, throughout the world in a pandemic. The largest industry, tourism, has been badly damaged by hopes for government support and business banking agreements, when the pandemic has passed, most of them will recover. The highest. Doesn't Minister agree with me that selling Iceland's bank in all this uncertainty adds to the uncertainty of the bank's customers, especially those now borrowing, that with new owners, there will be other policies to the economic restructuring ahead? Tells you the highest. Ministers that he can ensure that new owners do not come back full of loans in cryoconservation, and we accept sale of hotels, hotels, fields, and other property all over the country at the time of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u36	A respectable president. I'm sure there are uncertainty times. But when do we live a certain time? Perhaps we did, perhaps thinking a year ago, just about a year ago. Then we thought we were sailing a calm sea, and it was just bright ahead, but suddenly a crown epidemic arrived. The uncertainty that exists now is not overwhelming. We've brought in a vaccine and it's all about the end of this ice cream. Or what was it? A senator, in effect, thought of a time when she recommended dealing with the State's ownership laws many years ago, 2012, when we were trapped in the seas, when the banks were in wounds after the collapse, when we were in the bottomless recession and had not yet received the investment of employment, etc.? That's why. A senator here recommended that it be a good time to decide to sell the banks, to sell state property in banks. But now that it is nine years later, why not? A senator who has always talked about uncertainty, year after year, continues to believe that uncertainty is too high. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u37	Mr. President. The one here was thinking in the fall of 2012 that it would have to be the cover of the stock market, in case the lndependence Department could get to the Ministry after election, which was in the spring of 2013. That's what's going on here. That is why we have an excellent setting today. Even if the decision to sell a bank is said to be based on a white book on the financial system, the main factors involved in the sale are not applied, e.g. the need to think about the future of banks, and if an Iceland bank was sold, there should be a foreign person with experience in banking. The bank is now to be registered only in the domestic market. Who are the most likely buyers at the bank? Will it be the pension fund, which will be the owners of Iceland banks like Arion, are bank customers, and are their rivals at the loan market? The U.S. Contestance Commission will likely make comments about having the pension fund all around the table. Who else could it be? I know the highest. Any wealthy domestic people who have enough money to buy at the bank's price at acceptable prices? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u38	A respectable president. What a realistic view! A senator in 2012 found that the United States would not be in the next government, as was the case in Polish then. I'm fine that it was recommended and approved here at the council how we would be able to sell banks in the event that they did. But that is exactly what we are doing. Hv. One senator said that she had to come here in 2012 to decide how we would do it and when we're following them closely, walking down that road, she says, "Well, the only thing is, it's not time. But it's been nine years. Hv. A senator has given them a talk every year, whenever the issue is open. It's a paint transfer, of course, with a very hollow sound. Who Will Come? I'm afraid I'm saying it's almost not worth answering. Of course, if no investors come, the share will not be sold. We believe that in Iceland there is enough interest, sufficient funds, interest in pensions and other investors who have shown themselves in other tenders in the past year to ensure successful registration and sale of this property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u39	Mr. President. It is truly unexpected to be in such a situation now, to be discussing the proposed sales in Iceland Bank. In some way, the issue was hanging up in advance, and one might ask: " What is the motive? It has not been shown and has not been presented in the talk of the Supreme Court. Ministers, though he had many beautiful words here, connected all of this with possible life - style, and the sound of my voice, the health issues of chapters. Mr. President. Many companies and many individuals are in a more sensitive position because of the economic breakdown that has resulted from this virus crisis. We'll, the Icelanders will remember, the conditions after the collapse and the steps scare. Hence, it is reasonable to ask about time. I don't agree with that word. Ministers that there is a sign of some special ideologies, even though questions are asked about them. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. And I'd like to allow myself to ask the highest. Secretary of how he intends to use the value of the bank. He spoke of business and investment in his introduction, and he has not clearly explained how he intends to use the bank's value. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u40	A respectable president. My business with the council, I had a report for sale of the state's shares in Iceland Bank. These goals are clear, I thought. I thought we wouldn't have to read it again in this discussion, but I'll just refer to the summary. There people can see the main objective: to reduce the government's risk, to promote active competition, to maximise the restoration of state funds, to contribute to the wide range of healthy and distributed resources over time, to increase investment potentials, to reduce the debt of the State. In other words, it is possible to say and say the word "woe. " A senator that it is a bit unexpected that, in the middle of a epidemic, there was a situation to put the matter to the test that has been planned for more than a decade in one way or another, but, of course, circumstances have been changing. But that must be positive. Seeing what's going on in the market is positive. It's a good thing to see these successful publishers. And what should we do with the money? It is obvious, of course, that it will diminish the balance of the State Fund. It will reduce the financial demand of the state's funds, it's better to put it that way, and it's very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister will answer, but I'm pretty much no closer. The cost of the virus is, in terms of a billion dollars a day, on expenses, and in lost income. The value of this quarter part of the sale is discussed with the figures that can run at 35◯40 billion. If it all went into business, it might take over a month or more of this poor government fund. When the flags end, and everything goes up and down, and the tax pay for the state's money is rising, then it is only natural that it is easy to imagine a scene where these debts, which have been established because of the few, will be paid down at some reasonable time. But here we are talking about lucrative assets owned by the state's funds, one of the best assets in the state's budget, which has turned up a wealth of money in the form of interest. Hence, it is absolutely necessary for a minister to acknowledge whether he will simply put this into the pit, as they say, or whether he will turn it into lucrative possessions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We face the need for enormous projects, for transport, and for other aspects of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u42	A respectable president. If we agree that there is a lucrative property involved, I believe that on the market there is a fair price. And in reality, I have to ask myself some thought - provoking questions about whether we cannot agree with the fact that if the property is good, the price will be high, and if it is profitable, the more profitable it will be, the more money the property will be, the higher its price will become. We're not delivering anything, we're selling. We're going to get a fair price. They ask: What will be used for the price? May I call attention to the fact that this year's government funds are fired with a 40% angle from income. Of course, we are involved in borrowing, and this will reduce the need for borrowing by releasing property items. This step is to sell about A quarter of the bank's share, but the total value of the bank after it is registered, if we in the years ahead use the market to further dispose of property, will probably get rid of more than 100 billion, and it will cut off that amount in order to carry out the assigned tasks. A senator mentions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for his thunder speech; he led us into all the truth about selling our property, 25%, Iceland Bank. First, he spoke about his goals. The goals are clear. He mentioned the goal of reducing the government's risk to a large part of financial markets. I'm asking you what's the greatest risk. Secretary of finance talking about? Did not the banks make more money during the 1920's than they have ever done for economic collapse? And what decades is the highest. Minister to talk about? We took this bank into our arms after the 2015 stabilisation process, if I remember correctly. In terms of normal market competition, I ask the highest. Minister if he has read the reviews of the Contestant Board and the concerns it presents. We don't know anything about who can afford to buy so much at the bank. [[The president calls.]] If that were e.g. Pension funds, how could it justify the fact that this was being brought up by a scattered market property and an increase in market competition? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u44	A respectable president. I have to say as the crisis increases: Is it not the best thing to take a little more frank discussion about this and adjust it so that those who are on account of the state's having the whole banking system, because it's the best arrangement, just open up about it? I like it. One senator is saying that it's a crazy idea that not all banks have it, it must be the best, because it's such a lucrative business. Asked: What is the risk of owning a financial enterprise? Well, why don't we just review the story in that subject? Perhaps we should review from earlier times about the Bank of Rights and the state's position? Should we discuss the hundreds of billions of dollars that the state lives with because of an apartment loan fund, a loan agency that does nothing but lend on the first mortgage in real life? We are left with about 200 billion losses in the old loan collection. I simply ask, What is the ideologies? A senator suggesting a policy of government ownership?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u45	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. The fact is, the senator standing here doesn't give much for it, definitely nothing, that we are being thrown in the arms of our property, when we don't know how much to sell, who to sell, or what form to sell. There is, in fact, nothing placed in our arms on a financial committee except a bunch of hippie chappies and we'll just see. And it can't be compared, like the highest. Ministers have made a successful tender invitation to the Icellands, which, as we know, was not equal. Although I'm saying this is the wrong time, we're in the wrong place at the wrong time, and we're all in nothing about this trade right now, this woman has never even talked about raising taxes, and neither is she a party of the people. At least does not agree with those who have doubts about how things are done. [[The president calls.]] I just challenge the highest. Ministers to stay here and discuss matters with us when we get the time to let our light shine over why our ideologies are the way they are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u46	A respectable president. I may have said too much earlier when I said, "What?" A senator seemed to think that the State should always have a bank. Perhaps it is so. A senator believes that in some circumstances a bank could be sold. It is my opinion that now is a good time to take this step, not to sell the entire property, but to register the bank in the market, to free certain parts of the government's holdings, and thus to keep the possibility that, in the years ahead, there can be an even greater release of property. It is complained that we are not doing this in the right order or that there is limited information to take a stand on the matter. But all of this is in harmony with the laws on the subject. We are looking for the council's opinion, and we are doing this outside discussion in preparation for a process that will take several months. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is not possible to approach the council and say: We are going to sell the bank's property at a certain price. Don't we all agree? [[The president calls.]] There are preworks to be made first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u47	Mr. President. So I paraphrase a statement to the highest degree. To this day, the minister of finance will not overlook the fact that those who speak for the sale now are just those who always speak for selling. There seems to be no uncertainty too much uncertainty in order not to justify sales, at least I've never heard the highest. Secretary of finance is talking for sale at a few point. In view of the fact that this is always a political issue, and there are certainly people who always want to sell and some who don't want to sell, and I honestly don't know exactly what to do, I want to see neutral standards. But perhaps there is just no will for neutral standards, for there would be some need for truth? The evidence is that selling is not dangerous now. All right. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is there any evidence that at this point it is desirable? That argument I haven't heard yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u48	A respectable president. I have to take care of things when they say I've always recommended sales. It's just wrong. For example, for the last spring, I said: This is not a good time to attack a bank sale, out of circumstances that had developed. I also said at the beginning of this terms: It's not time to start sales with the bank, we need to deepen our discussion, complete a system change. We decided to make a white book submitted to the council as an essential factor in making a decision for the future. It can be said, too, that it was not time to sell a 5% share in the bank at the time, while 95% of ownership was in complete agitation. So it's just wrong. Asked: What recommends that the bank is desirable? That was my speech earlier. That's what government policy is about. That is exactly what the Bank Office is doing, and my report to the council is about it. I urge people to study this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u49	Mr. President. I'll take this defense into consideration, even though I evidently missed all those talks at the time. Regarding the evidence, there is a report from the Bank Office, which listed various evidence, but all the evidence was that it was not necessarily harmful. There's something I'm willing to buy, considering that there are positive things going on in the stock markets, though something remarkable may seem to be in the light of circumstances. There may be some nice situations, but none of these are in themselves reasons for selling. These are just reasons why selling is not necessarily dangerous. In fact, I've seen evidence that there could be a possibility of saving 100 million. K. every year, based on the available criteria. [[The president calls.]] Is that really enough? Is that reason enough to sell 25% at the bank? I need some positive reasoning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u50	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my discussion of history, I feel that when many people come up here and speak against selling the State's ownership, and many people talk about the lack of time or any other situation that would contradict it, the smell behind which there is a ideological disagreement. The best evidence for selling the bank is here: the state is not to be a bank driver, the state should not be responsible for banking in Iceland. The government should not have two of the three systematicly important banks. The Icelandic government has the largest possession of all countries in Europe, and although more are searched for in its financial systems. This is the simple argument. If men don't believe in this argument, I don't think we'll ever get together on price or timing or any other thing because they simply believe that the state has a role as a leading force and a principal financial system in that country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a ideological difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u51	President. It is appropriate to first, then, just move on to the prehistory of the matter, as it were. A minister did this before. It's normal to put things in perspective and the state would not be the owner of Iceland's bank unless it was part of the process of making up the so-called stability productions where the stock of old banks provided very significant property in various forms during a procedure I think it is safe to say that was the largest economic activity in Iceland and that the situation of the country was changing in a short time. Perhaps another one of these things has not been seen in another country, at least not in the latter time. This has enabled us to succeed, for example. The current economic crisis of the pandemic would have been better. In fact, with these measures the response is now funded, response to state income drop, and a growing number of expenses. And since we put it in this context, of course, it is reasonable to conclude that this bank was not handed over to the State or the State not to take it over to drive a bank to the future, one or two or three, but as a payment. On the other hand, it must not be overlooked that the government had taken over Iceland's bank and, to some extent, had at least one U.S. bank. With the fact that if the bank was not sold in a certain way within a certain period of time, it could also take over that bank. This was especially so that it created opportunities after the collapse of the bank to reorganize the financial system in Iceland, making it more effective for the public and business in the country. But that opportunity has not been new, so my main concern about this time has been reversed. Of course, we know in some respects, most or many of us here, what happened with Arion's bank. Now the danger is that Iceland is going to be private without people seeing in the country how financial systems we want to build up in Iceland and how people want to take advantage of the unique opportunities in this situation. Before the last election, the Central Party proposed an overall program on how to do this, how to reorganize the Icelandic financial system. And so were the banks, and the pensions. The objective was, not that the State would take over the financial system permanently, but that it would use the position that was in place to enable the market to function normally, to establish a healthy financial market. The market is not yet healthy. We can see that, for example. today, the banks have failed to follow the results of the Federal Bank. This was one of the battles we discussed in the above strategy, the importance of reducing the banks before being sold out so that they were not dependent on an unrealistic fruit requirement. Now, naturally, a large percentage of the bank's own money is not working to create the value of the state, including the bank owners, to return it. What are the real consequences of this? They're borrowing their customers, including their customers. To try to live up to this fruit requirement, it can also be said that they use the opportunity they have to add spells to the public so that the economy is too high because there is too much money on banks. This is not a healthy arrangement, and it is best to see that despite the repeated growths of the Federal Bank, the public and the businesses still pay too much interest. In other words, the banks have failed to comply. This is what happens when the companies in the country and the homes are especially equipped to pay for an abnormally high interest. This particularly takes on SMEs. It is better not to have a private bank with a growth plant or a growth plate than a state bank. Before the bank's personalization, we need to see more clearly in the country how we want to organise the financial system in Iceland or see it develop. Larger companies usually have a better option than smaller ones, can even finance themselves abroad. As a result, the pressures are far more common in smaller companies and mediumsized ones and, of course, on their homes. That's all the grounds for reducing the rate of loans by perhaps a percentage of 1,3,5 percent to companies, or 1.5 to households. In fact, I think it's necessary in these circumstances. And what would that mean if the interest in homes due to mortgages fell to about 1.5 percent? For example, in the middle home Thirty million. K. A loan, that could mean 450,000 bucks. a year's savings. To raise $450,000. You have to do your job and get paid at 700,000,800,000, even more. This would remember a great deal if we were to establish a healthy growth environment in Iceland and even remember considerably more than the pay raise in collective agreements. In this situation, employment cannot thrive properly, much less when it is added to the crisis we are going through. The combined profits made by banks were probably about 40 billion last year, which does not meet the demand for 10% interest in money. If they were to achieve that, they would have to add a price to borrowers of 40 billion a year. In comparison, as much as any profit of fishing industry combined for taxes and interest, this is an enormous interest in society. Therefore, it is not possible to look only at the price tag set on the bank, and it is expected to change according to the circumstances; rather, the overall impact for society is to be seen by using this unique opportunity that does not come back to reorganize the Icelandic financial system, thereby saving for homes and making employment and building and valuables in the country more efficient and efficient. Of course, we do not know how the value of the bank or the sale price, the price tag, will develop. There may be another bank bank bank in Europe or in Western lands, and the value of a bank may fall quickly. But the value of achieving a normal, healthy competition and normal growth environment in Iceland will always be much greater than that of the bank's price swings. In the above, our proposal to reorganize the financial system for the last election, we offered suggestions for each bank for each of us. Conditions are, of course, changed after what happened with Arion banks, but in the case of Iceland banks, we recommended to seek to sell it to foreign business banks, e.g. Norse business banks. It's something that's a long way from being fully developed. Governments need to realize that such things do not happen spontaneously. It is required by the government. They need to show a willingness to do such sales and some knowledge of how the financial system in Iceland develops. No one will show up here unannounced and bid on a bank, hoping to buy, when entering a financial sector that actually doesn't work as normal, is not healthy. We also mentioned the possibility, in fact, in the case of Arion's bank, but it may not have mattered entirely what the bank's name is, to hand over a third of the bank property to the people. All the population would get equal shares in the bank, and then there would be a time limit of when to start trading with the stocks. But once they hit the bank and sold the money for the rest of it, it would be easier. Hv. Andersen It's just one example of the things that must be considered naturally before driving the bank under these circumstances. The pension fund seems to be most likely to be available in order to buy an Iceland bank. They already have a huge share in Arion banks, as you know them, and they are very active in competition with the banks. This must cause us some concern over competitive views. But the main point of this first talk is this, Mr. President: The bank has not yet done what it needs to be done, and it can be done to establish a healthy financial system before the bank is attacked. Of course, the state of the United States should have the interest reduced in harmony with the rising numbers of the Sensian Bank, and this might, at the same time, be an invitation to compromise its question of fruitage. But there is one thing I'd like to mention, Mr. President, even though I'm running out of time and have not been talked about, anyway, in terms of this plan for sale: what will happen to the money? Yes, we hear the argument that the state has spent so much money and that debt has grown to such an extent that paying them down does not result. But the last time we heard about government plans on the possible sale of Iceland Bank, it was in the bill for the formation of a new city community, especially. It called the possibility of selling Iceland's bank to finance city lines and other transport projects. As a result, you must be concerned that if these sales are attacked without preparation, then what happens to the bank will be new in an unscrupulous, unwise assignment. So both are available, what happens for sale and what happens after sale. I don't think that's supposed to be stealing or making money on unfashionable projects. To finish this first talk, Mr. President, I restate on the fact that we still have a unique opportunity to establish a healthy financial system in Iceland. It is an enormous value for society, and it is important to take advantage of that opportunity before the State attacks in personalization, although it is quite clear and has been from the start that it did not belong to the bank or to drive it as a bank to the future but to maximise the value of the bank. But not all of this is achieved, but even above all, by the simultaneous sales or by the sale, the improvements in the Icelandic financial system that are truly needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the topic of this discussion. It is of interest to communicate about the market and its future development when we are at the turning point of contemplating the sale of a significant part of the Kingdom. I see why. A senator may feel that the market is not healthy and that banks would have had to be reduced so that the exploiting of owners does not produce as much economic account that calls for high profits; that all this bound money somehow needs to increase and simplify the way to solve banks. In this regard, I have to point out that there is more than the size of the bank on its own because of the scope of the operation, which is very influential. Here we are another thread talking about the rule, e.g. for your personal resources, which require you to invest enormous amounts of money in order to ensure the safety and the lack of risk of the operation. This is the way to form your own money of all Icelandic banks above 20%, compared to perhaps 6◯7% before a crash. It's a total revolution in the environment. This results in a high cost in the banking system, which, of course, can affect the bank's requirements for interest. But what is that? A senator applies when he says that the banks should be cut down? At the same time, he points out that we have a problem with the Icelandic banks in terms of their size. It may be reasoned that even allowing the fusion of banks, which in general have not been consistent and with a high estimate of whether it was a health sign in the Icelandic financial market, would reduce the number of large banks, but it would certainly increase the efficiency of the business. [[The president calls.]] What exactly is that? A senator refers to the need to reduce banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for giving me an opportunity to answer these questions, which I heard from the minister that he already knows, for I only came into his speech earlier. It's not just a question of the size of the bank. It is also a matter of order, of personal interest, as it were of the highest order. Minister called it. It can also be called the bank reserve to cope with difficult situations. In that subject, Iceland stands out as a complete exception to the claims of self-imbursement, which is a great obstacle to the creditors of the bank, whether it's the small companies or the home. This money doesn't work, it doesn't make value, so the bank has to drag it along and put a much higher tax on those who borrow money. Conditions now require that there be a change. Iceland can hardly plan to be a top priority in this regard, with these requirements that, as I have repeatedly mentioned, clearly include higher prices to consumers, no more than Iceland intends to be the only country in Europe where banking is largely in the hands of the state. But this part, the rule book, and what it is safe and what it is right to do now, makes sense to me that before the bank is sold by this humble rule of order, which does not work under current circumstances when the reserve is a failure for society rather than using the structure of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u54	A respectable president. This case may have two sides. That, on the other hand, is the two - sided one. A senator draws up that the bank system costs enormous money to tie all this money into his business, it's just right by then. Senator. The reasons why we do things this way are based on what happened here at the fall of banks. At that time, they felt that the resistance of the banking system was inadequate, and those personal financial requirements would prevent something like that from happening. And we can see that now, in this amazingly deep economic depression we are in, the banks endure this strain. The CIA has relieved the financial companies, but it's worth asking themselves, and I think it's a business thing to include the discussion here, exactly where to draw the line. We need even. asking ourselves, " Is there anything in the law or in the rules like this or is it possible for this to be used by the Council Bank today? ' The requirement for the risk measures, how it is combined, and how the side effects are set each time. The bank just took the swingback to zero, thus bringing oxygen to the banking system. These are huge questions, and here, in reality, we deal with fundamental factors, one of how strong and powerful the system is, how much resistance we want in the banking system, and how little we can do without sacrificing too much interest in these materials, how little demand is acceptable to have on the banks so that the banks can loan at best? [[The president calls.]] It's a balance art and it's possible that she's set a little stiff for low risk today and it's cost, that's right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u55	Mr. President. That was an excellent cheek for the highest degree. Minister. He knows these matters better than many others from years of experience in dealing with this system. That's why I want to encourage the highest. A minister to set aside time to reflect on these fundamental questions, including those and other factors. Here at the council, picturing a country, envisioning how the financial system can be developed so that it will be healthy before a privatization can end by the bank leaving e.g. In the hands of pension funds, which would then be able to bring in much of the market and compete with themselves, so to speak, or to other investors. They will only feel better about it in an environment where they avoid the growth reduction of the Federal Bank and add extra spells, they can even call it a yoke, a customer's car, a penalty on their homes, and particularly in my own companies in the country. Right now, we have to make the funds less expensive so that more companies can see the benefit of investing and building and creating more valuables. V.E.G. Minister knows all of this well, but I encourage him to move on with this and to be more advanced in the financial development of the system before the private development of Iceland banking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u56	Mr. President. The evidence for the importance of selling Iceland banks now is not clear in the Bank Office proposal or in the report at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. In March of last year, the bank agency withdrew its plans for sale because, as stated on the Bank Office website, by permission of the President's permission: In view of a much changed situation involving measures in the world in conflict with the Covid-19 virus and a significant uncertainty about the economic situation, the government of the state decided on the 12th of March. canceling the proposal In a memo from Bank County, December 17th. there are reasons for starting a trade process now two: First, that the bank is doing better than expected, which could obviously be a reason not to sell it into a deep economic low. Second, domestic market stock markets have increased by 50 percent, and successful stock markets have been achieved by major involvement in the public. This suggests that now is a good time to sell. Economic markets have increased over the past few years here and abroad because they expect continued economic support from the government and the money markets. That's a good argument for sale at a bank. In the budget and economic minister's report, it is stated that the government's administrative treaty states that the bank should be taken up as a sale. The Constitution was composed late in 2017. Do governments really believe that there has been no change in the economy here or abroad during the pandemic? The decision is not ideal or reasonable because it is in a government contract. Rather, it needs to be reasoned with by the public's interests, and it should be made clear why it is important to start the sales process in a pandemic situation. The same explanation as in a white book about a vision for the financial system is used, since the reason for the importance of bank sales is, in fact, the fact that the State is a bad owner. Reasons for selling a well-sized bank that will play a key role in reorganizing an enterprise after a pandemic for the highest economic low of 100 years are unclear, and the most important thing seems to be to start the process right now so that the bank will be in other hands for the summer. The data of the bank office or the financial and economic authorities are not included in the evidence why there is so much urgency. Therefore, it is inevitable to ask whether all of us are apt to sell the bank or to start its sales career before election to the Council for the next fall. The final consequences of the global economic crisis, resulting from the epidemic, are still very uncertain and do not indicate that the bank has much to do with the fast sales process. Although a vaccine has begun to be received, it is far from our being released from a pandemic. Uncertainty is high, and with the bank's sale under these circumstances, uncertainty is added to the uncertainty of new stockholders with their own personal goals in possession. Although we are being relieved of our social limitations, the countries around us are intensifying. Although all of us hope to have successful vaccinations worldwide, there is no record of the development of the virus. Mr. President. Powers have never been lower. Government funds worldwide are funded in a climate without problems, and there is no apparent evidence that government funds are being sold to reduce government borrowing. Each person sees that selling an item at a bank that is well - off and has given a good deal of money in government funds, some 70 billion dollars. During the past five years, to pay off debt on negative realities, it is not a wise decision, in fact, a very foolish arrangement. The use of such evidence is indeed surprising, for it is an attempt to deceive people into accepting the sale, but fortunately, the public is not going to be deceived. The trade process is being carried out and found by the buyers of this country because things are not to be taken into a foreign market, the consequences are the. It is recommended that the public property be transferred to those with sufficient and free extra money for the purchases. So there will be financial groups who thus gain a favorable price and who have the opportunity to benefit from it for the future. Mr. President. It has been observed that a substantial portion of Iceland's loanbook is frozen, or more than 100 billion dollars. A buyer who watches such a loan collection must take it into account when he brings his offer. He'll probably want a lower price, because that section of the loans is uncertain. There is yet another reason why it is better to wait on sales during such uncertainty. The bank will have to reorganize financially with some of its clients. The government has invested a lot of money in managing businesses so that they can start off and make valuable when the epidemic has passed. The firm has everything to do with good government and business funds. Travelers and others with their loans in cryoconservation are not expected to like the possibility of altered tenant policy in addition to other uncertainty about the future business. The minimum item to sell is 25%. That ratio is only set because it is the minimum set by Wall Street. The banking board considers that it is not appropriate to attach the size of an invitation until the end of the sales process, i.e. ... theregistry of registration as is customary in markets. The stock exchange emphasizes that no top priority is placed on what to sell a large item in the bank. The size was important, and the thing has to be large enough, so foreign sources like to bother the company at the bank. So says the review of the Wall Street Board to the budget board, by permission of a president: The close link between the bank's business with the Icelandic economy makes up a special facility where there is a purchase in the bank, in simple terms, it can be possible to invest in Iceland to be an investment. The Icelandic economy is often out of control with other countries that appeal to foreign investors who want to increase the risk distribution in their libraries. President. A major reason given for the need to sell the bank is to free the state of the government from the risk of business, but it is clear that all systematicly important banks are ultimately in the State's shelter, and this is an indirect responsibility for the government's operation. This does not have to be explained to the Icelanders. They know a nation that personal banks virtually dropped on their heads about 12 years ago. The fact is that despite changing regulations after failure, the State is a great deal of private banks. A great deal of good reason to sell the government's property in banks is that competition is somehow a factor in selling the bank. It is clear, however, that part of the possession of one bank owned by the State goes to private hands does not change the competition between the three big banks. Having three large banks, all of which are systematicly important, is limited to market competition and can contribute to the competition regardless of whether one or two banks are owned by one person. If there is a desire to create space for diversity and more competition between markets, the overall structure of the system needs to be considered and to make significant changes. In the review of the Contestant Board for sales plans for the government in Iceland Bank, this is exactly what we're talking about. The Governing Body points out that when making a decision for such a significant sale in the State's ownership, it is important that the competitive influence of sales is evaluated in its contents and that active competition along with a good order can support financial stability. Contestability issues are not discussed in the financial and economic secretary's report on the sale. According to the World Health Organization, the Icelandic financial market has strong, low - cost characteristics, loaners have few options, and the three banks have a key position in developing commercial activity in the country. According to the House of Contestants report, most of the richest buyers are running the post, while the pension funds are in Arazon's bank. The fund is also rivals to banks at the loan market. Recent examples show that there was no active competition in the price of housing between the three banks until the pension funds came into the market and reduced stress and thus housing. The Pensions are also big customers of the bank. Clearly, then, a competitive problem is to arise if the pension fund becomes a bigger bank system owner than it is now. If the predictable conclusion is that instead of the bank is owned by the state's funds, the same people are going to be the same bank by their pension fund, there may not be the right way to get an invitation and registration to the market. Mr. President. To increase the competition and diversity of financial markets, future planning needs to be considered. A white book on a vision of the financial system stresses that the banking system must be based on three basic factors on good order work and a strong monitoring of financial contributions, the practical operation of banks, and the trust of all important elements in the financial market. However, comments to the White Book and a general discussion of it have led to a common community view of how financial systems must be built up. To establish a solid foundation for the future and policy development in these issues, a discussion is needed. The banks are not like any other company, they are exerting influence throughout the community, and to shape its future structure requires a general debate that is now under way for an election to be implemented. Thus, the future structure of the banking system can be one of the election terms that voters take sides in the voting chamber. In recent years surveys show that less than 20% of the population think it's time the state sells the banks to privates and more than 60% thinks it's premature. Even if the decision to sell the bank is said to be based on a white book on the financial system, it does not follow its main points, e.g. the need to think about the future of the bank, and if an Iceland bank was sold, there should be a foreign person with experience in banking. We in the United States have been able to talk about our use of a position, with a large share of property in the banks, and we have decided how the banking system we want to see for the future through good service to people and companies with diversity and other advantages, along with competition, intensive surveillance and consumer protection through a safe, cheap, domestic payment agency. In each country, the payment network is shallow, the answer to the extent to which private or foreign companies should be authorized to care for the community's infrastructure and to use it for their own interests rather than for public interests. Technological progress is on the move, and the benefits of which need to be put to the public rather than just the owners of the banks. Green challenges exist, and green investments become even more important to society in the future. We want to separate investment banking and business banking, investment banking, public savings, risk of investment banking if the owners of investment banks are concerned, not the state. Here is an important lesson for the bank collapse. However, trade bank - a community bank or national bank - will be funded by loans made by the Federal Bank as a sponsor. Such growth follows an increase in financial markets and competition that now lacks, but mostly we want to talk about the future of the banking system and the will of the public to be brought forward. Then, the sale of property items can be taken into account in the setting of future and desirable ownership. Mr. President. The process of selling banks starting from White Books on a vision of the future for the financial system of December 2018 ended in March 2020, since it was reasonable during some of the most divisive times in the world's economic system. It is understandable why it is time for the bank's annual account to be published by 2020. Many of the projects of financing worldwide have been delayed and delayed because of the pandemic and the crisis. Why Iceland's privateisation is listed as so urgent today as questions and suspicions. In times of uncertainty, selling banks is unwise and unwise. The economic accounts that will hold on to property and debt of the pandemic building and, directly, the challenges of disaster will likely require public ownership. Therefore, it is wise to wait and see how evolution will be over the next month, but do not rush to sell our common ownership at a bank. It is impossible to pretend that nothing has happened and that the financial world has not changed during the pandemic. Then there is the possibility that more than that a business banking system in the state market could be an option rather than a defect in order to ensure a new level of payment. No country in the world today is selling national property, although market positions are well - off, and the debt of countries around the world has increased dramatically. We're in the middle of a crisis. We're not supposed to sell banks just to sell banks. We are to take into account the economic and economic situation and, prior to the sale, we should have decided how financial systems we want to live in Iceland and make decisions with less uncertainty and unusual pressure from the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u57	A respectable president. This speech was not surprising. It's somehow that way. A senator never believes that it is the right time to free the possession of the State. But you ask yourself, " Is that so? ' A senator fears that we here at the General Assembly, the government of any time, will just stop considering a future financial organization after the holding part of Iceland Bank has been sold, that it is a breakthrough? Then people stopped thinking about a future financial organization? Or why does possession help to determine what organization we want in the financial market? I heard it coming. A senator said that we should take advantage of the opportunity now, take advantage of the opportunity of possession. What does that mean? Is running a bank a challenge or making it easier? If we're going to make it easier, we'll break it free like a dog. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson only spoke of earlier, freeing of the burdens of running financial businesses, the work will be more profitable. It can be reasoned that it must be done before the bank is sold in order to obtain a higher price, that we must remove all kinds of financial burdens, and then sell to achieve the price. On the other hand, if it's supposed to make it harder, as I thought it would be. One senator says, "It's necessary to simplify the operation, " and forbid people to be involved in a wide range of aspects, such as investment banking and other activities, to reduce the profit of money and then to destroy the value of Iceland banks. " That's why I'm asking, "Wouldn't it be easier just to sell Iceland's bank, to let him go his way, and to start this bank as fast as possible? " A senator is talking about, the person she dreams of, and making a decision on how many billions should be set aside to set aside this fantasy bank, which will do nothing but engage in such relatively unsatisfactory activity? How many billions of people like what? A senator set aside to capture the dream bank? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u58	Mr. President. I've noticed that it's hard to maintain our argument at the highest. Economic and financial ministers at the time of the sale of banks, it seems to be so emotional for the highest degree. Minister. I have stated from this platform and from everywhere where people have liked to listen to these matters that we in the United States want to take advantage of this opportunity - and there is indeed a chance in what everyone will see when the state has ownership of two business banks, then there is no need to take into account other bank owners when reorganizing - to consider what kind of banking systems it is best for the public in the country, which services people from cradle to grave, so to be said, lend mortgages and loans to the house and all this business requires. What kind of system do we want to have, so those who want to take high risks there have a choice for investment banking, and those who want to be less at risk in some sort of savings or community bank might have a choice? What we have said is: Take the community discussion, listen to the public. According to the latest three polls of 2018, 2018, 2020, and 2020, most of the public do not want to make that decision, they do not want to privatize the banks in the position we are now. We really haven't had this discussion. It's not just about how much we're gonna make on the bank, how much things are going to cost, but how we can create a banking system that serves normal people and cares for the benefit of the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u59	A respectable president. I can't say what's wrong. A senator is talking about. It points to the future, that we need to take the discussion, we need to consider our systems. How about that? A senator would just say how a system she wants to see in a commercial market in Iceland, it would be listed here, instead of just talking about the desirable benefits of having a low interest and everybody having access to funds, people having to take mortgages, etc.? Isn't it true today that we've never been in Iceland's history, in the Republic's history, seen as much access to the mortgage as we do today? Is it not true that the pension fund lends its funds to the most favorable interest we have ever seen in history? Do they have to drive a bank to do that? No, we have a very good situation. Everything I hear is what I'm talking about. In fact, a senator talks about it is a reason to unwind banks that will increase financial risks. I feel that if people are making a recommendation, before we sell a bank, they only have to be able to increase our financial risks, make less demands on their own money, demand that they have less produce what they're dealing with. If people want to take Iceland banks and kill their worth so it's impossible to have any real money of all the money that's bound there, let's get ready to take a few dozen billion hits on the government account because we've got the bank on 80% of the accounts worth it. That's what I'm talking about. A senator is actually talking about. She'll have to answer if there's a full-scale announcement to the Icelandic business model before it's sold and which way it is? Is it to destroy the value of the bank by putting such strings on him that he cannot gain money from his business but should all of this be on zero business, or is it to relieve it and increase the risk in the system? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u60	Mr. President. No, it's not like I want to reduce curses. V.E.G. A minister is probably confusing the discussion with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson said in his first speech, and I was not involved in this matter. I'm saying, before making a decision to sell things in banks, whether Iceland or U.S. Bank, we're supposed to break between investment banking and business banking, finance investment banks in ways other than the savings of our citizens, and that the risks of investment banking are in the bank. I don't think it's such a business to be sold, that the state doesn't have such a job. However, there is a business bank that we can call a community bank, even though it is poorly defined and we need to get better acquainted with what it means, or a national bank that serves normal people and normal companies, and is involved in the green structure of the community called. Once we've put this system down and increase the variety of markets and increase market competition, let's take the initiative to sell the things we don't think the state should hold. It'll take time. It matters, Mr. President, who owns a bank. Even though it's the highest. If a minister does not seem to make that matter, then it is of great importance who has a bank. In fact, it is considered in the White Book, even though in this process that is now to be carried out by powerful acts is not to be taken into account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u61	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a report, and then to some extent, the Senate's review to the highest level. Secretary of finance for the government's plans to sell the shares of the state in Iceland. It may be appropriate to consider just a few words about why this matter is usually raised. How could this happen? Of course, this could happen because of what has been traced today, the state's having a ownership share in the banks'collapses and in connection with stability donations. I believe that when that happened, it was not the policy of any major political party in Iceland that the state should be the dominant member of a Icelandic bank market forever. I find that very difficult to believe. As you can recall, the state of that time was placed in the hands of the whole of Iceland Bank, the whole Bank of the Lands Bank, and part of Adoni's bank. Since the last time they sold a part of the bank, things have happened. You've been through this afternoon to panic, and you're right. There are a number of warning laws that have to be taken, but because of this, it is so important that these sales are carried out under the law to sell on the financial assets of the 2012 state, the then secretary of finance, Oddný Harðardóttir. That's the law No. 155/2012. According to them, the government should never have less than 70% in the Bank of Lands and sell Iceland banks and Adoni to the full. However, the political movement I represent here at the council, the left movement ◯ green supply, has been absolutely clear that we believe that the Icelandic state should have fully one of the systematicly important banks, i.e. The bank of the land. But the left movement, like many other political movements and many other political groups, has concluded that at some point the State's ownership should be relieved in banks. And speaking of regulations and rules, let's not ignore the fact that in many other things a rule has been changed that benefits us. You can imagine thinking that you were going to think of all things, so because the previous story was a terrible story, where it really was. The privatization of 2003-2005, we should never do such a thing again. Then I ask: If you have ever had a difficult time driving a road, you will never again drive that joke, even if it has been reformed, even if it has been replaced, even though new traffic regulations have been established, etc.? No, it's not like that. We cannot bind ourselves to it, for we have most political movements, including the United States, who discussed earlier that this is not the right time, concluded that we should get rid of this property, and people can learn about it. Both in the White Book and in the state's tenure policy, in terms of things in the banks, are suggested to be reasonable. But I take it, and it's important to keep it up, that the left motion is on the line that we should continue to follow one systematic important bank and that we have looked to the Lands Bank and concluded it. There's also been a little debate about the lack of a good price. I think it is important that the Council's review of not getting an acceptable price, the price available, the state simply stopped, then it withdraws at this stage. I couldn't see any regional failure in it, and I could see no harm in the fact that the State actually said it. Not only is this clear for those who may want to invite them to the bank or who may want to buy something for themselves but also for the protection of the State. The government should not sell this item at any price, that is the clear attitude of the left movement ▪ green supply. Neither should the whole item be sold to someone else. They're talking about recruiting things at markets and selling them into scattered holdings, and that's very important. I myself think selling things, to a maximum of 2◯3%, to one party or related person is very normal. I think it would be a very good idea if any part of the bank, or even significant, were to go to a scattered possession of individuals. In view of this, I think it is important to make extra contributions from letters in the bank to put aside very small investors, so that the intention of their purchases does not have to be damaged, as a bigger offer might be, in order to make sure that the public has a better chance to buy an item, if that is of interest to him. The sale of Illelands, or the stock market, has also been discussed. We know what's in here that the stock market came, if I remember correctly, something around 7,000 persons on the subject, to most of the very small investors, i.e. just individuals. It showed that the public was interested in buying little things, and I don't think there's any less chance that it could happen. But again, I repeat, if there's no acceptable offer, we're not supposed to sell the item. It is suggested that certain items be sold. We've talked about selling 25% shares. Since then, people have wondered that if there is a great demand, there is a possibility that they can sell more. I think it's important that the state stay on the market selling 25% but say it's absolutely firm and firm that there's never going to be a 35% drop in the entire part that's going to be sold. This is very important because it is a key thing in my mind that the state has the share of the brother in this bank, that it belongs to him. We know what this program is all about, that when the sale of this particular item ends, there is actually a six - month period where the State cannot place more of its property in the bank on the market. That decision will then be made during the next term, in line with the government that will then be established. It has also been very much said about the need to complete the legal process of separation of investment banking and business banking, which is in this council, in Congress No. 7, if I recall correctly, Mr. President, and I agree. I think it's very important that this legislation be done before it's sold. Again, it is very important, simply to enhance the clarity in the invitation, in order to enhance the clarity of any investors who might be interested in being part of or public. I think it's very important that this is done in this way. Again about timing, if it's a good time. It's like this now, and it's been observed at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, and also at a meeting of the financiers, even though I'm not sitting there, that Iceland's Bank is doing pretty well at the moment. Contrary to what they've heard in the media and heard in public areas, there's a lot of trouble in the freezing of loanbooks, we do now, I don't remember if it was on the news today or yesterday, that the freezer of the bank's loanbooks is about 10%, and about 7% at the Lands Bank. I think these figures are pretty close to what was in the media. Yes, it is, but this is something that the prospective buyer will take into consideration and prospective candidates. It has also been said that it is better for the Kingdom to keep all the shares in order to have the opportunity to earn all the money. It is in itself quite a view, but it can be pointed out that it is not that we know far ahead of time that the payment of this property will be the same as it has been so far. There is no way for us to know, and increasing levels are not being sold to the brothers of the bank. They're selling a quarter. Yes, it may be that a quarter of the money would not come to the State, but in return the government would likely receive money for this share of his property. It would then be to cash in some of the assets that fell into it in connection with the reorganization of the banking system. That solution is just an important thing right now when we need money as a community, to form a built - in structure. The state is calling for increased force in the infrastructure, and people call for the State to do better in improving social infrastructure. This is likely to result in some of the funds involved. It is not money that is borrowed and that is important to look into it. A respectable president. I believe this is a careful step to take. I reiterate what I said earlier that there will be no more steps during this terms. Then the next step will be first, during the next term, and hopefully according to the same rules, they will not be changed. I believe it is important that the council send out a positive report with the warnings I have been given here. It is important that the Council is fully open to the Commission in this respect, not to be given open access to registration or sale of this property. The review needs to be positive, but with these clear conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u62	President. There's one thing that's bothered me a little about this case, that it's that we don't have a lot of time or a deadline set at the General Assembly, that it should be finished by January 20. Why? There is no specific answer to that. There is no special obligation that a minister or a member of the council may need this appointed time. The government can't throw something in at the council and say: You have to finish this for a specific date. Of course, the Congress should only complete this process on its own responsibility and with the quality the council considers the matter to be necessary. There are a number of factors in this process that allow you to doubt that the matter is properly prepared. The most obvious example is the review of the Contestant Commission, which simply says: There is a lack of analysis of the impact on sales in this part of Iceland Bank. Other reporters have said that there are other options besides selling the essential portion of Iceland banking in the way proposed. That would be, for example. you can separate business banks and investment banks from one of them. So the bank could be dissolved or combined with Iceland Bank, for it is true that the government has nothing to do with two banks. There are plenty of other solutions to sell the bank, which are not smart. There is no evidence that one of these possibilities is better than another. Rather, it is laid aside only one possibility, which is not a good government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. He talks about time cards, and I assume that we are not on the same page entirely. I've seen a little bit that in this terms of terms, preparation has taken place to identify the financial system, and the white book is the guide it has published. That may well be the problem. A senator may feel that he needs more information or more time to participate in sending a review from the council on this subject. I feel that the work that has been done, at least in the panel I am working on, is the kind of information we need to take a stand or to evaluate the situation. For my part, I am ready to make positive comments with the more part that may develop in my head. The Economic and Business Committee. As much as I'm living up to the fact that there is no strong evidence to support that, neither with the left movement, nor with any other political party in Iceland, does the state have that kind of property, should have such a dominant share in the financial system. With regard to the timing or time shortage that may be there, there is an unusual individual opinion of what it takes to make decisions and to consider the situation. I feel that I have received the information in my committee that I need to make a decision, and each member of the Parliament needs to appreciate it for himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u64	President. I asked a few questions on a financial committee that did not provide satisfying answers. That's exactly what I asked about support for other possibilities. I wanted to get an overview of the alternative options. The evidence is not fully established or is given to them in general. The Ministry said it could be found in the White Book. I said: Great, send it to us, with an update on what has really changed since December 2018, when the White Book was published. We're in a pandemic, so it's not exactly the same background. This has not been clearly established. We're here on the treatment of public funds. It should be very easy to put it up. It's a $137 billion sale, something like that. What does it mean to reduce the burden of interest against the pay being made and the amount of about 3 billion in the latest news? 6 billion profits in Iceland banks, half of them in remuneration. [[The president calls.]] It simply compares how much money we save against how much money we lose. [[The president calls.]] Nothing like that is happening. Of course, we should have the answers to these questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u65	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. The senator wondered if all options have been detected and what possible, and the impossible results could then come out of this sale. He has not been given the information that he feels he needs. In such a process as this, where things are being recorded on the market, I don't think it's possible to accurately predict what happens. It is not possible to foresee exactly what may come out. There's nothing easier for the state to sell like this than for private people who are selling something like that. But as I said before, I believe that the information that has come at least For my committee, it should be good enough for men to make a decision. [[The president calls.]] Then, naturally, each individual must be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u66	Mr. President. Privacy of a bank 15 minutes before election is a big deal. For a bank in a 100 - year - old crisis, personalization is simply a bad matter. This speed and time as fast as possible. A senator feels so convenient, has two benefits: We get worse price for the item, and we get worse buyers. There's a 100-year-old crisis going on. I don't know why. A senator has noticed. There is no other country in the world to sell their property at the bank, and there are many countries in Europe who have a share in the bank. Clearly, the government does not get the full price for the sale at this time. Hv. In his talk just earlier, a senator said that offers will not be accepted unless there is an acceptable price. Then I ask, What is an acceptable price? We don't know. Hv. A senator could inform a body of Congress about this, for if he is going to make an informed decision to accept an acceptable offer, he must know the price. How can it be? A senator knew this when we know that up to 20% of Iceland's property database is at a post office? This speed raises questions, and it is right to be suspicious of the process. The track's starting to scare. Hv. In this regard, a senator talked about the direction of the left greener and spoke of the policy of holding the Lands Bank as being left greener. As far as I'm concerned, in the new releases of the budget, there's simply a warrant, as a matter of fact. A senator agreed that as many as 30% can be sold at the Lands Bank. As far as I'm concerned, with the left green policy, there's a very clear precept for separating investment banks and business banks. There is no stone on the left green in this case, and I don't understand why the left greens are drawn into this expedition just before an election of ill-prepared, in which the debate is by no means mature, and there is no special request in society that they take this step. [[The president calls.]] This is most reprehensible, and if you are going to convince a nation and a council that it is right, you need to be much more firm about that argument.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, before answering. In my speech earlier, it was stated that I believe it is entirely the monopoly, which concerns just what he said about separation of investment banking and business banking, to complete the bill available to the council right now before this sale. I think it's very important. The Senator talked about the direction of the left green. I studied it in my speech. The left green has concluded that we should have one of the systematicly important banks, and we've looked at it as the Lands Bank. There's nothing wrong with the left-green policy. Regarding what the senator said there is no other bank sale: it should not be because there are only other countries in Europe who share so much in financial markets. No wonder they don't sell them! I also reiterate what I said in my speech earlier, that, following the collapse of the bank, no Icelandic political party has claimed that the banks actually came into the Icelandic state as a pay-up, as a permanent payment, should mean that the State would become a permanent driver of the two-thirds of the banking system. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u68	Mr. President. Hv. Says one senator: The direction of the left green is clear. You've just agreed to the budget where there's a warrant to sell 30% at the National Bank. Likewise, it is not proper to think that European countries do not own up to 100% in banks. The Belgian government has 100% in bank, the British government has 62% in bank, the Dutch state has 100% in one bank, and 56% in another bank, the Irish state has 70% in one bank, and 75% in the other, Norway in 34% in Norway Bank, the largest bank of Norway. It is not true, then, that this is some unique place in this country, and we have to sell a bank, that we are the only state in a world that has a bank. The essence of my criticism and of the United States is that you are having a hard time doing this. Speed is reprehensible, and this is not the time to sell. We do not receive acceptable prices because the buyers are fewer, and because there is a 100 - year crisis here and the bank is important. [[The president calls.]] It's not like any other company. It's so obvious what you're doing here. [[The president calls.]] The bank is being privatized just before you get out of the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u69	Mr. President. That 6. a warrant as a dog. For the past many years, a senator has been in financial charge. As he well knows, 6. not that the object will be sold. It discusses that he may be sold after the process I took into my speech earlier, i.e. the songs set up in 2012 that are an excellent tool around this kind of sale. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should have confidence in this, especially in the case of those who were in the government when these laws were passed and who were then making the case. They're the ones who've had it. A senator listed earlier that most of the items in certain banks have long since been released from the items they have intended to free, and therefore they are not selling banks right now. [[The president calls.]] In Iceland, however, we have planned to reduce the property of the Icelandic government on banks. [[The president calls.]] All political groups, including the United States, have had this in their course, and now we are taking the first little step in that direction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u70	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. To tell you the truth, there's something special that I find here that a member of the United States Congress is reasoning bank sales with a member of the council on the left. There's something special. But that's how she is. Hv. A senator says it's taking a little step, we're just selling a little bit of the bank. But, Mr. President, in all the documents we have in mind. The financial and business committees are referred to as the minimum selling factor of 25%, and the reason is that Wall Street demands minimum. There's no peak. In fact, Wall Street stresses that there is no peak because foreign investors would be forced to buy more in the bank. They would only leave for more in the bank. It's a lot of work to go over the economy in Iceland and the bank position, and so on, that's why it's so important, says Buy Palace, to get good buyers from abroad to have this open. The White Book also expects you to do so. She recommends it and talks about possession, which matters who owns the bank, and says that it would be preferable if Icelander got sold that the owner would be foreign, and there was someone who could run a bank. Right away. A senator standing here and says: I'm just taking a little step and acting as if everybody should know, I'm a little chilling. [[The president calls.]] I ask you what evidence and what certainty you have. A senator for taking just a little step?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G.. It's a Harðardóttir kid. I think it's true that I reiterate it, I don't remember whether I said it on the committee or where I said it before, that I don't agree with these reasons that I don't have to be any upper limit on the size of the object we're dealing with, because it hasn't been made in the case of any member of the board, at any other time, that we're talking about selling more parts than anywhere in the range of 25 Source5-35%. I'd stick to the lower percentage. In fact, there's also been a show, and a great deal of it. A senator recognizes it just as I did, at a financial and business committee, that it was possible for the state in itself to get a license to sell less than 25%, and it actually came to the highest court. Minister here. To me, that's absolutely clear: We're not going to sell more than that. I then traced it in my speech as well, perhaps at times. A senator has not given a listening ear, that I believe that the size of the items that each one may buy in this auction should not exceed the value of the bank. I think it's normal that the review should be given. Named. If there are no foreign buyers available to buy ◯bara◯3% at the bank, then there are other conditions I mentioned in my speech, e.g. not getting buyers, or not getting enough money, to come in, and then it just has to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u72	Mr. President. I'll be right back. A senator believes that there is something to be done that matters? Where do we get the conditions information? It's really, Mr. President, it's very strange that when we have nothing but a memo from the Bank County and an unexplained paper from the Supreme Court, members of Congress and panels are asked for a review. Financial and economic ministers. We don't even have the bank's annual account by 2020. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he did not consider, at least, that it is unwise to sell an item at a bank, no matter how large, for the deepest economic low of 100 years. [[The president calls.]] Has it not thought that it may be wise to wait until we know more about the library, we know more about what will happen to companies that rely on agreements with business banks, etc.? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Don't you think the sales of the doubt that's already there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u73	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The Senator asked me a direct question, would I not have wondered if this is the right time, and he specifically mentioned the uncertainty that exists today? I suppose, like all members of Congress, I think about it when they have such a big issue in their hands whether it is wise to intervene now or not. In this respect, I'd like to point it out, e.g. As to the uncertainty that the senator mentioned to clients, that it is being sold around 25% of the bank, and I don't think it will have a major impact on the bank customers now, because we are ensuring that the state continues after this selling full custody of the bank with the percentage of property at its disposal. I don't think the bank's customers are going to be significantly affected, and I'm not gonna worry about that. Regarding the fact that now is indeed a deep crisis, yes, the Senator's right. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to allow myself to assert that the uncertainty that lived to form six months ago is not half now. [[The president calls.]] Happily, we can see beyond this present situation far better than we did then.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u74	Mr. President. I've tried to approach this matter with an open mind. We need to weigh all the evidence found. If there's too much criticism on my part of this process, it's mostly for two reasons, on the one hand, that it seems to me that the government might be fully interested in trying to get away from this without criticism, while the fact is that the horse is being placed to some extent behind the chariot in this matter. Here we are running off with a process that has certainly been built in the law for a very long time, but that is not to say that the process is good. There might have been every reason, e.g. Over the past three years, reevaluating the process and trying to create the mechanism that people could possibly accept. I'm going to go over it right after, but first I'm going to say that it's very normal for people to ask questions about this matter, and especially when there's considerable suspicion regarding the politics of this country, to the highest level. A financial minister in some way, and not altogether for no reason, and because such a situation is decidedly screwed up. When that is the case, it is natural for people to be more alert and to be somewhat critical. But as I have said before, I do not agree to sell. In some ways, as I have seen last week, there are quite some reasons why now might be a good time. But that is not to say that I am completely satisfied with doing it now, not because time is bad, but because the process is not right. If we just review the evidence, then, basically, the evidence is not dangerous at this time, and I'm willing even to agree with the evidence. There is a demand for a market, despite the fact that the economy in the country and in many parts of the world is in poor financial conditions, stock markets are generally coming out well, and stock prices are being raised recently. In Iceland, there have been a number of productions that have been produced 203/40% in the past year, which must be called good. Keep in mind, though, that while stock prices are growing in general, especially in low-growing environments, various studies have shown that the stock prices do not necessarily increase in a low-growing environment. Since it is usually the basis for making banks, banks are not the most likely companies to raise. Then there are other arguments, some of which have been improved despite the fact that we still have a little bit of a country to do with it. This is where I get less, so that some of my years ago, along with the highest. Prime Minister and a variety of others. Councilmen, put in the bill for separation of investments and business banks, or whether it was a synonym, but now all of a sudden, it seems enough to just install some Chinese wall, some magical line that's supposed to separate these things, even though we know that it really has a very limited significance. I don't know why that's all of a sudden. But at least I find that questionable reasoning. All right. What has yet been missing is a specific reason to do this, i.e. no evidence that it is not dangerous, is there, but what evidence is there that it is good to do this? The main argument of the government is that it has to somehow sell the item to pay off loans, pay off the debt of state funds. But look at the situation, we are in the very low-growing environment, and there is no shortage of access to financial resources. To pretend that this is a better funding option than any other in this very low-growing environment is a little strange, especially when we know, based on the analysis that it may be that the waxing industry - provided that this will be used to pay off the most expensive loan of the state, in fact, it's not quite the kind of thing that works but good and well - based on the expectations of 33/4 billion in profits, it could be 100◯700 billion. K. every year. The loan is far too expensive, and all of this is to be reimbursed; we should take advantage of this low-growing environment as much as we can, but all of this for a total of 100 to700 million. K. At least I thought it would be interesting to see if there was any way to increase that number. I don't know how we do it, maybe by getting a better price, maybe by setting things up at the bank. Let's look at the facts, the bank is today with credit ratings of BB+ A-2, and, on the leave of President, a negative estimating order, with an expense rate of 62.4%. This may not be the most considered option when trying to sell a bank, you want to have positive prospects, the strongest possible credit rating, a lower cost rate, and I could think of other things to do in the bank that could possibly be better before we go to the sale, just to get the best possible price and to raise the savings as much as possible. In addition, there is no particularly powerful reason to do this and that, well, to mean, is the only argument I've ever heard that it's good to do this, i.e. if I take note of the reasons why it's not dangerous. Reason about 100 million. K. In a year when we run a government fund for 1,000 billion a year, there is no powerful argument. So there's a lot of reasons against doing it right now, I'm not going to list it because honestly, I don't believe all of them and they've been recited by a lot. But what I would like to talk about in the end is neutral standards and the process I was talking about earlier. I know that the process can be stopped at any time on the way, yes, there is a lot of evidence, but there are also a lot of things going wrong, and many incentives may not be completely justified, but most would normally say: "Set some conditions, set some kind of minimum price, some minimum time that the process might take, economic grounds, e.g. that there is no current crisis and that the economy is stable. Stability is never guaranteed, as we last saw at this time a year ago, but we can at least start at a time when we see, for example. not until the pandemic. We could set out conditions for buyers, some kind of standard for long - term vision or stability, or a distribution of property. People have talked about it. Everyone agrees on that. But where are those criteria written? Where is the list of factors that need to be met before starting such a process? I don't necessarily know what should be on such a list, but the fact that it doesn't bother me is that it means that an assessment of the times to go off or not to be based on a mental assessment of the person at the Ministry of finance at any time. V.E.G. The secretary of finance may be able to do this as well as I trust the Ministry is a maintenance and trust in it, but that is not exactly the very reason for the public's confidence in the process and not for the self - sufficient reasons that nothing will go wrong. In fact, you can write the best check list in the world, and something could go wrong. However, this process has been designed throughout the years in other lands to reduce the likelihood that something will go wrong. Then there are many ideologies: Some people want the State to have a bank. I don't feel that way. I don't think it's government nuclear, and I shouldn't. At the same time, though, some people are so trapped that the state shouldn't have a bank that they just want to run and get on with it. Yes, they may have done some careful research, but we should remember that property is also not a state's core operation. Then someone might say: The Kingdom is not supposed to have buildings; we may just sell them and rent them, for example. The General House. I wouldn't agree with that. Some might argue on ideological grounds. The fact is, the government's business is never so cut and challenged that you can go on ideological lines with it. In the past, e.g. it is considered important that states or rural groups run e.g. heat clinic, post office, telephone service, but they have somehow fallen out of fashion and were subjected to very serious privatization in many of these areas. The phone may be the most famous example, but the rest of it isn't because we have a higher temperature bill, higher phone costs, certainly more competition in the phone market, finally and fortunately, but these processes haven't all worked out exactly because we need to get out of these ideological pits and say: "Make a good career, set some requirement, wait for those conditions to be met, and then the process will start automatically and without a political encounter. That's how I'd like to see it. I don't understand how people want to do it in other ways, to be honest, because it costs a lot of suspicion, arguments, and unhappiness that we could avoid. The Kingdom may not have banks, and some will say that now is the right time or that now is not the time to sell. But can we at least agree that if we're going to sell, no matter how large the thing is, whatever what it is done and whatever the buyer may be, they should be built on the grounds where people can look at it, understand it, and find that the process has all figured out, all the way was free of tribunals, campaigns and ops in the event of election, and that people are generally trying to do things without it being done the best possible way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u75	V.E.G. President. When you listen to this talk, you think of a cat going around a hot grin. The foundation doesn't disagree with selling, but the process isn't right. It is sown with endless suspicion. It's the same speech that you've heard from many: No, the State isn't necessarily supposed to have it, but it can't be sold either. It's not a bank that we started and made, the state. It's just a payment we got, and we're changing this payment that we got from the broken house, on the contract, into money. They're just talking about checking the bank and selling it if we get an acceptable price. What process is being discussed? What are we talking about? It's just that we're talking about selling our contract property and turning it into money because people think it's the right time to do it right now. Why is this matter being complicated? You're stuck with your property, and you're not going to sell it because you're so suspicious, because you might get a better price sometime later. And then the property goes down and becomes nothing. That's what we're trying to prevent, of course, is that we need to place this property in prices because it's wise now, and it's not as reasonable in a few hours but right now, and then somehow people are making the whole process suspicious. They begin to undermine it and make it suspicious. There are other circumstances. I can only see that both the Union and the Piranus say that the state has nothing to do with all the banks, as everyone agrees, but they obviously just want it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u76	President. I wish you would. A senator does not try to make my point. I hope he doesn't feel that Iceland's bank is going down and down as he mentioned, and at least it's not the basis for his party as far as selling him. A good price on the market could not be expected for a product that is about to collapse. The reason this is hard to believe is not because I or someone else from Pirata's ranks are making this suspicious. This is a suspicious process because we have decades of experience at a rate. A senator's private interest in things that don't go well. True, it has been a success in some cases, extremely limited, but we must just understand that there is suspicion in the community. We didn't make it, you made it. In order for this process to take place in harmony with society, these questions have to be answered in an honest, enlightened, and good way. That means we're going to fix the process, which means we're gonna take it through. Hv. A senator says that having a process is somehow extremely complicated. I've bought and sold things over the years, and if it's a big, valuable thing, you deal with work. That's what I'm asking for, that these will be good enough for people outside the community to trust this. In fact, Iceland's Bank is something we started. This is my client, and in my lifetime he's gone from being in a state fast to being private and to being back on government property, and now he's going to be privatized again for another time. All right, I'm ready. But let's do it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u77	V.E.G. President. Of course, he is likely to fail with this now - now - in - a - day inheritance. Just as the Icelandic state banks steadily subsidized, taxpayers paid a lot of money back then. True, it was before it was. A senator came to his senses when we old senators remember this. Those were ruined banks. Their own personalization and their sale, although much has gone wrong in that process, that nation did not suffer. International banking crisis did not occur because the Icelandic banks, if you think, were privatized. There's nothing in this process to worry about. It's only selling a thing if we get an acceptable price. There's no question about any process in it. It's very simple. It's getting suspicious, and it's very easy because there's a collapse. It is so easy to feel suspicious in this situation. I can't see it. I can't see it. A senator, that there is no special will, when you listen to your language, to free this property. You, what? Councilmen, always talk about the importance of paying attention to experts and looking to other countries. All experts say: It is bullshit that the state has two thirds of the entire banking system. Empty bullshit. What do other countries do? No other nation could ever think of the state running the largest business bank in the country? No nation can think of that. No, you can't listen to the experts and science now. What are people talking about? Which path are we going to go? Does it make it normal for taxpayers to sit at risk from the entire banking system in their arms? What would have happened if we hadn't gotten rid of this bank?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u78	That's what we did in the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u79	- No, in any other way, it would have been much more. We would have had to make this up to the demands. We left them in the bank collapse with the damage, and we couldn't have done that if it had been the bank banks, as they were before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u80	Mr. President. So I repeat, there's suspicion, it's created in the community, and it's there for good reasons, banks collapsed in Iceland. Why did they not collapse in Austria in the same collapse, and why did they not collapse in all other lands? That's because there was something wrong with the system here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u81	They were too big.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u82	- Yeah, maybe that was it, but then the rule should be better. If the banks were too big, then the rules should just be better. When I'm talking about a career, I'm talking about hitting agitators with this kind of thing. Just to be said, this compulsion is to pretend that Iceland is some sort of special case and needs a different set of rules than everybody else, feeling really tired. But not looking for evidence, not looking at the whole world - it's full of countries, like hell. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson pointed out who have lots of banks. I'm not talking about having the banks forward. I'm talking about the deal being done normally. That's all I'm asking for. If it's something that gets in the way of it. A senator, I can't help. How does he want to do this? He just wants to get it done? Okay, okay. Trusting that there will not be more economic accidents, such as a pack of whales. A senator has been standing over and over again. Should we trust that? I'm not quite ready for that. I'm ready to sell the bank, but let's do it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech. I'm going to say in the beginning that this discussion is important and that it's healthy. I explain the role of the council to make comments to the minister's report that brings the matter together. What I thought was interesting to me in speech. A senator who agrees is that we must evaluate the cost of sacrifice and take options together as we look at growth and the potential for profit. But then we would also need to examine the costs of such activities, i.e. A bank is by serving out on funding, by its own means, and by its interest. It is also part of this and may be missing into this discussion. I agree that ideologies are rarely so simple that they solve things or give a single answer. It always needs to be considered in some context. What I thought was the most interesting part of a talk. A senator is the discussion of the present low - interest environment in comparison. I'm gonna give myself a second. A senator believes that it is desirable, desirable for the state funds in these circumstances and desirable for the general public. Then I ask, " Does it not matter how we finance the treasure of the Kingdom? ' The possibilities are these: Inbound loans made with the stock market that would be greater if we didn't release a holding part, which is the two option, sales as we are doing here, and foreign loans that are on less than within the country. Does it not matter to maintain the low - interest environment, as well as to the public, which reduces the expected debt and reduces the weight of interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his verbal and good answer and good question. This is exactly what we should be talking about here. Of course, if we look at the possibilities, foreign borrowers will have lower interest at the moment, making it considered to be the case. It carries a significant benefit, even though at the present time there is actually a relatively low income, which means that foreign loans are even more desirable today than they used to be. We have some expectations, and more expectations than smaller, I think, that the dollar will get stronger in the years that would make them less money. As for the success risk, if you would weigh it and evaluate it, foreign loans may be reasonable at the moment. But I am always very cautious when it comes to a foreign loan because we do not control that coin, but there are certainly better interest there. Illegal borrowing. There is at present historically low growth, and there is an opportunity. Maybe we should focus on that, especially when we're looking at something like--now I don't remember the number, but we have one foreign loan at 8% interest. This is a reason to try to refinance it at the moment because the growth environment is better and we could reduce the growth rate of the state funds considerably. Selling possessions is short - lived. It certainly works, but isn't necessarily what should be our top priority, especially when we have these two pretty good choices at the moment. I agree with what. Of course, a senator says that we should try to keep the interest rate low. But keep in mind, too, that government debts are private savings, and often it can be an incentive for the economy to owe more money to the State. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u85	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'll admit it right here and now I'm digesting the answer. I haven't quite made up my argument in my answer, but I'd like to go back to the second question that I was going to lead from the first. This is normal because of what happened. For interest, a senator introduced the importance of the credit ratings of enterprises. Regardless of how the discussion has been over the past decade, it matters to us, and it matters to us what credit terms are. I think they appreciate it in such a way that the more the finance of a government fund, the more solid it is. It's like this in and with a question, and I would give it to myself. That's what I'm talking about. A senator won't agree with me in that? I don't agree that we're running. I feel forgotten in the discussion today for the six months ahead, security checks, food, investment presentation, very open and useful process, where we finally get all the information we dream about, etc. I think we should consider that the council will be specifically informed through that process. Then what I would like to ask is a question. A senator, if we look at credit rates and low interest, would this not exactly support the state's financial status when it comes to credit companies into the future and maintain lower interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u86	Mr. President. When I spoke of borrowing earlier, I was talking about the credit rating of the bank, thinking of the many factors that could affect the bank's sales prices. When you're in a business like this, I guess you want to get as much money for the bank as you can. Of course, it is even better that he is as bossy as possible. And he's very firm, that's not a secret. But there are some weaknesses, and we've done quite well over it. Of course, being a government fund like that can have a positive effect on the credit rating. with a lower debt rate and lower interest burden. Absolutely. But I don't think we should make the mistake of overlooking the fact that that's not the major part. When you watch a credit rating, it is largely based on the degree of production and the degree of diversity in the economy. When we look e.g. in one of the elements on which Iceland Bank prices are based - that varies according to who you are asking, with 10% of the loan collection in cryopreserved, 20% per some - that is exactly 11% of the loan collection associated with travel services. I think it's a weakness, not just in Iceland's savings library, but in all of Iceland's economic system that we have so few big foundations. One way to make Iceland's bank more regarded as a commercial product is to make Iceland's economy varied. If we were to focus on this at the General Assembly, we would benefit greatly. Hv. paritaprevir Ermur Níelsson spoke earlier of me ignoring all the experts, but there are many economists who have spoken against it, and the Contestance Commission has warned against various factors. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to look at this whole thing and think to ourselves that when we're talking about a bank that has 25-3/40% of a market share, it's economic and affects the whole Iceland economy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u87	V.E.G. President. We'll be planning on selling on property shares in Iceland Bank. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. It is healthy and good, and it is especially good in view of the role the council plays at this point and is in the hands of two members of the Parliament, or members of the Parliament. The Economic and Business Committee and the financier; making comments to the secretary's report that brings the matter together. I want to thank you, too, the highest. The secretary of the budget for his report and the management of the case. I think the conference with the highest. The financial and economic secretary who's holding this case is very important. It has been observed in the discussion that this is in accordance with the laws on the sales of the state's property in financial companies and that it is the law that stipulates that the Minister's essays are under consideration here. In addition, the Shared Bank is designed to make comments on certain factors involved in the equality of clients, the likely effects of sales in currency markets, deposit stores, and available traffic funds. Is It Wrong to Tell Others? No. 155/2012, also mentioned to the highest level. The secretary of the budget is authorized to sell the property of the state, but it also requires authority on the financial and economic proposals of the bank administration. So it is reserved in the law and in all formalities for the release of a secretary for sale and for the actual sale included in Article 6. budget, team 5.1, selling state property at Iceland Bank. Although this may not be an important factor, a respectable president, in whether it is wise to sell the state's ownership part at the bank, the quarter planned, or the criteria for this time, it is the fact and subject to the ownership as a result of a scenario and reaction to the economic crisis, not a conscious decision that it is reasonable that the State has as much share in business markets as it really is, including all in comparison of such property in other European countries, although they certainly should, as shown in the discussion, part of financial resources. In this context it is worth considering that this procedure is being undertaken in the running and shortly before the election, that this is under current law. This is also shown in the bank's tenure policy, as well as in a government contract and was followed up in a white book. I feel that we must make it that way, especially since trust in the financial system has gone very slow and would not be surprised by the shock of more than a decade ago. They're trying to be careful about the process and they're taking very careful steps. Then it is our job to draw out all our viewpoints about when it is wise to sell and how. I feel at this discussion here, a respectable president, that perhaps it is mainly possible that the timing of going to this registry is the best thing to do. I think the path chosen also counts as well as the one that precedes it. It's worth reviewing what's happened over a decade since the fall of banks in the economy, the management environment and the regularity, and reviewing the rich requirements we make for business activity on a financial market today. This discussion is very important. So it is this question, which may be the major question, but it cannot be answered entirely, whether the State should have a bank over it. It brings to mind the role of such a system and the role of the government in this regard. We all want to see plenty of regulations. We've burned ourselves to the point where there were holes. We want to see a fair, efficient environment that provides the basis for a financial system that meets the requirements of those working in that market and a great deal has been done, a respectable president. Trust in that material comes to mind. We want them to have confidence, and we want the financial system to serve the community with practical and responsible guidance. We want a high monitoring system to make a significant reduction in the risk of trauma. The word that big business banks are too big to fit means that they take on the whole of the community. In fact, reducing possession is the objective and plans reflected in government policy in the 2017 government covenant. The State's holding on financial assets is the most important thing in Europe. It is undisputed and by national product standards, it is also very high and higher that I think than any other European country, and also if we take it as a percentage of public debt, it's about 37%. We can imagine that if we were rid of everything, we could cover the debt by 37%. It must be thought - provoking as we look at the cost of binding all this money into the system and what it really is. Is it just a form of suspicion? Then I'll remind you that we're solely on the list of the bank and the criteria are 25%. We still have 75% at Iceland Bank and the whole National Bank, so the discussion about community banks is so far away from us. On the contrary, it is completely accepted after going forward, as well as the debate over the definition of such banks. But we are definitely to take it. It's my party's policy, the forward party, that we have one bank that plays a community role. The Treaty is suggested to reduce possession and announce that the government's funds will be subject to capital investments in at least One systematicly important financial institution, the Landsbanker. That's very clear. I often feel that the discussion is like we're just about to sell everything in a storm and in a race. It's just not. The future process is also forgotten, which is somewhat over the next six months. It will provide a wealth of information and answers to questions we are trying to answer today, which are difficult to predict, how the market reacts and how they are prepared to pay and who it is. They have a regular work on the ability to own banks, and that is where experience and knowledge are very important, and it is often shown in the discussion that a foreign bank with experience and knowledge of such a business is desirable. Then perhaps we are looking to more competitive aspects of the environment. To establish sound reasoning, as well as lay the basis for a discussion of these intentions, a government covenant was proposed to provide a white book. She came out of 2018 and was discussed at the council. She's going to be very useful now. It discusses these vital aids, orderliness, and the function of the ministry, and the importance of ownership. The setting of the Regulation and monitoring aims to ensure a healthy ownership by the requirements for active owners and the limitations of loans to owners and linked parties. And perhaps we can discuss the presumption, a respectable president, but at the same time we must discuss the evidence of reducing the vast holding of the State. We may have to consider the risks of such vast holdings, the cost of payment, and, of course, of competition. There are many things that have been done before and now, as I came to, to build confidence in the principle, to promote monitoring, and to improve the environment. Two points presented in the White Book have been discussed today, that is, Iceland's stress, dyspnoea, specific taxes, and high financial requirements. It reduces efficiency and efficiency, which tells itself, but it increases resistance and reduces the risk to the contrary. We need to weigh that. Despite the tremendous impact of the economic flu cycle and the deepest crisis for 100 years, as stated in this context, the banks are very well off. Then there is your own financial requirements and the principle of order, in effect, a challenge for all of them. It's good. It should increase trust. The sale plans now are in accordance with the highest level of up-to-dates. Governments. Been in the way for some time. There's no running to this place. Of course, there will always be some opinion about the choice of ownership, the extent to which it should be, or may be, and the timeliness. That's exactly what we're talking about here, and that's fine. I think that as many of the views as possible, not just in this discussion, but in the comments we make, we need to be presented. During the past week, the committee has been named, why. Fundamental and economic and business committees, have been contacted by people who know well about the market and the regulations and the factors relevant to the discussion, and have not only deepened the discussion but have provided information that is very helpful and useful in making important comments on the report and presenting all the points in this regard. In a report at the highest. A minister considers the goals. In fact, the minister did not review them, and he did not think that it was necessary, and I have an understanding of not being necessarily read them, but to us senators who are on the task of making comments to the report is important that we consider the goals that will determine the way of reducing the country's risks from such large assets. It's important to minimize the risks of the state. It's important to everyone. One aim is to promote active economic competition and how it is done and whether this way can result in maximising the recovery of the state funds from holding and selling items. I think that's too much for us. It turns out that the banks, the discount that was on the property, and now it comes closer to scientificism, so we are not expecting any extra payment. Another goal is to promote long-term diverse, healthy, and distributed holdings and hopefully to become a public and varied event, and then I don't think it's enough to make this deeper stock market and increase investment potential. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, the apology of a respectable president is most important to reduce debt and to increase the State's scope for social interest and to reduce the burden of interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in time. She matters. Of course, when we sell a part of the state in such a big business as Iceland Bank is important. It matters when we start to privatize the banks. I wonder what. A senator does not agree with me or, in part, may agree that it is odd to begin here a vast trade process at a time in which the European economy is in a deep crisis and the world economy is in a deep crisis. This must affect the price we receive, but it must affect how many buyers there are. Hv. A senator, like me, learned business science, and he knows that supply and demand are in the hands of others. If the offer of buyers is dealing with a severe crisis and financial crisis is limited, it must affect the price to which the parties are prepared to pay for this item. I also wondered, " Why can't we just take some more time to do this? ' Why is it so hard for us to sell our banks right before elections? Of course, we put these sales in context. I know it's in a government contract, but you've waited long enough to sell this thing. As long as we are in the position we are in and while the world economy is in the position it is in, this speed and time are very peculiar. It must be the goal of all of us to get as high as possible for this object but also to get good owners at the banks. Possession of banks is so important. We've burned ourselves at having really bad owners knocking, and it's been a while since that happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson's guru for good questions, and they are fully justified. We are to ask ourselves: " Is timing important? When we make it so that we are going through the deepest economic lows for a hundred years, the answer may be obvious. However, if we look at this a little further in March that the proposal of the Bankis then, in the utmost uncertainty and really no awareness of how to deal with, what we would have to do, how long it would be, etc., was not at the appropriate time. But if we already look at the situation, we're going to be able to get over the problem with vaccinations, if we look at the development of a stock market that in low-growing environment, all of us, as mentioned in the discussion, increase, and banking statistics abroad as well, it may be a good situation to start this process now. At least it can't be overlooked. The other thing, I'd like to say, too, that I think this test of stress was very interesting for the banks. I say a test of stress, but it really is true that the Senate has been working on for a decade. It has something to do with the second part of the question. The banks demonstrate a massive resistance with a strong stock status, high personal ratios, and a lot of ability to meet this and also face it, despite that, as in the case of Bank of Iceland, 10% of the loanbook is in cryo-conservation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Some investors may say: When the vaccination starts to work and the job starts, it's the production tool in the tourism service that will get us started again and this will increase further. [[The president calls.]] I just don't know.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u90	The president has shown some patience regarding the use of council members and has insisted on this. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u91	Mr. President. Yeah, the timing, maybe we don't agree on it. I also think this discussion needs to develop a little more in the community. I don't need to be aware of the pressure that we have to get going and sell this thing. I don't think that's what they're calling for right now. But I'd like to ask about something else, not about time, but about my own money. The bank's debt to owners is, in effect, a debt that can be defined that way. It has been observed that as many as 40 billion are over their own money. According to this, owners, present and future, can bottle off their own money. I'm not saying they should go down to the minimum, but they can reduce their own money by drawing it into their own interest. I wondered why that trip would not have been any further if the government needed the 203/430 billion that they were trying to get for this item that was to be sold in the first round. Why is this so? People and the government do not want to see that the State takes this 203/430 billion to itself with the decrease of its own money in the bank? It would be necessary for the money the state is trying to show up, but we still have the bank. That would make 100% of us at the bank. Why is this road not viewed merely in detail? We briefly discussed this in a financial committee. I remind you in the context that in the last five years, Iceland Bank has paid to the 70 billion state funds. I know there's no indication of future pay, but 70 billion, think, from Iceland Bank on state funds, is about as much as we put in the Land Hospital every year. The national bank has paid 132 billion for the financial gain. The wages from these two business banks have truly come to be useful and have gone to the state funds. I wonder why we don't go that way now, at least for now, and then we can make sure that some of the banks are private or all the way in which circumstances are practical. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u92	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the question, Senator. This is an important question. We're supposed to ask her, but I don't quite have an answer to her. I've thought about this a little bit, and it's true that this is a debt to owners beyond my own money. I've felt that it was only missing in the discussion to discuss the costs of running a bank, the services of loans, and the services of your own money. Is it not more expensive than three times that the service of one's own money is worth today? This is not exactly calculated. It's one thing. Of course, with more than our own money, it is part of this rule that we have drawn up with a precautionary point in mind. If we were to use the rhythms that we thought nothing of as a single operation in the past, to go into the bank and take it out, and thus to reduce the bank's resistance into the long future, I'm not sure that it's all that money. A senator mentioned. I'm only looking at instructions published by the Navy, he's told me there's 33/4 billion, and there's something left beyond that. My guess is there's about 15 to 19 billion, and then we have to remember what the situation is right now. It's not exactly calculated, it's by memory, and by our discussion on the Committee, and that's right. There's a senator coming in. I believe, however, that this gain can be paid without walking on the caution of the past year, and the rest will be reflected in the bank's price, always will. [[The president calls.]] If we take it out, it'll fall down, but if it's gone, the value of the bank will probably go up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u93	President. Hv. A senator said it matters which way to go. You're absolutely right. However, we do not have any analysis of the available routes, and that is also important. If it really matters which way to go, we need to see the options. What were the other routes, and why are they not as good? It's not enough to say it's the best way, it's got to show it. It's transparent. It is not clear to say that such a process, such as the retail process, is beneficial to those who want to buy but that governments must be transparent in the evidence they propose that this is the best way to use public funds. It is very easy to go through all the documents we have received and to say that there is no logical support. We're told this is the best way, but it's not. It is a fundamental question we here at the council need to answer in order to check on the minister's report that this is a good and beneficial process, good for the public, good handling of public property. So I just ask it very simply, "Why are we put so close to time? [[The president calls.]] Do we continue to do something about this until we have reasoned that this is the best way, not just in words, but in a sample?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the question is the Björn of Gunnar's Gunnarsson. Other options, that is a valid question, and of course we should identify other options. I'm going to refer to the Bank Office's status report since March. Part of it was presented as a beard. A senator is on the subject. It drew out the options of selling or engaging in fusion. A union is a complicated issue, and then we may be raising the government's ownership. Then perhaps we are going against the goals that we are trying to fulfill by checking the bank and going this way. I just agree with what. Senator that we're supposed to bring this up. We are to look at this, just as we should consider the exact cost of money binding and compare it with a growth rate and a waxing plant, etc., like a whale. A senator speaking. It was also discussed sales of specific business modules, much like the payroom or sustainable management modules, which can be taken out of business only. There are not too many possessions, where there is a possibility that it is complicated. After all, we may be able to discern the extent of our analysis. I'll say it's a good way. She's careful. I'd like to remind you of the whole process that's going into effect that will take six months before the minister's decision is made. We've brought out the market response. I agree with what we've been discussing before. The budget, to demand that when these six months go in hand, we receive regular information about this open and productive process and a lot of information that will reveal how to handle banks and markets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u95	President. I'm talking about the obligation of the government to fulfill its role in supporting their decisions. A recent example of how it failed was e.g. National Court case. There was not enough logic. I have the exact same requirements in this case, that there is logical support that is simple, some kind of sample. We went through this on the budget board, where we simply asked: "How much are we getting out of the sale? What effect does this have on the government's credit status and the cost of interest based on the pay they make and the cost of their own money? You can set this up in a simple example: This amount on this side and the other amount on the other side. If we see who's higher, we'll probably pick that way. There are many ways, though, that need to be accurately assessed on the same basis. And, yes, it's difficult, as noted in the case of a man. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, it's hard to see what's going on because everything is changing in markets, etc. But it is being suggested, although it is also difficult to see what comes out of it. I'm just asking that the other options be treated in the same way that this option should be treated. As noted in the case of the day, we are not being shown that we are saving. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, perhaps 100,700 million a year on interest costs against remuneration if we are going that way. If that is the case, it should be relatively easy to choose, even if the amount is not high. The levels may be different if we choose e.g. Practical management and sales, economic management and interest. There are other options, and governments are not fulfilling their obligation to show us that this is the best way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u96	V.E.G. President. As soon as I hit it with what. A senator - and I responded to his coworker, why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, about this very thing--I miss that the process that lies ahead of us cannot also be shown. There's nothing to leave us. The status report has been published on what other options are involved. I know I'm trying to be patient. A senator, but our dealings do not end with this answer just because they may often be in such a way that you cannot answer everything. But then I'm going to say, because the timing is so much for discussion and that we're in a hurry to do this, that there would certainly be many economists who would be ready to bring us into the future, both for the state's wealth and for the public, perhaps the most important part of this process. I'm pretty convinced of that, and let's try to draw some conclusions from economists. The changing funding of the state funds will lead to less growth as they start their fight, not to push them into large financial debt into the future, but to look to other options. A senator is talking about, loosening property and even looking to foreign loans, we have a large reserve of currency. I'm interested in getting clearer and more accurate answers to this. I think this is a top priority for the state funds and for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u97	Mr. President. Selling banks or not selling banks When to sell banks, and when not to sell banks? That's where the doubt lies. But that idiotic humor escapes them is the one standing here and the group he belongs to the belief that the business of the state in a financial market is far too great. It is not true that the State is involved in this kind of business in the extent that it really is. Of course, no one was looking for the position that exists today and that led to the continuation of the collapse, that the state had two banks in its arms, actually three, but one of the banks has been handed into the hands of one bank. But this is the situation. There's a possibility this has to be paid, and there's been a long time before, even in times like at least From 2012 onward, two governments, and probably all the streets, since then the government acquired this bank, were selling it. I'm going to paraphrase this: Sell a great deal of these property of the State, for it has also been hit by the defence that the State should continue to share a considerable share in one bank. Here we go. published in February 2020. It says that the government has a significant share in the long term in the bank of the land. It also states that there will be no decision on the trade process of any part of the government at the Bank of Lands until the government has sold its entire property in Iceland. So it seems very clear to you, that, at the moment, it is not intended to sell a share at the Lands Bank and that it needs to be made special decisions. It's been determined that this is not possible until Iceland Bank sales are finished. Work is done on the current process, and as mentioned in the discussion, the Bank Office had suggested that this process be started almost just a year ago and then canceled when Covid struck. This journey has again been proposed, and the council is now following one of the suggestions sent to the highest office of the bank. Secretary of finance. The minister of finance has said that he would initiate this process, but under law he should send his report to the Senate's two committees. These two references are on the subject these days. So here at the council sales there will be no decision whether or not this process will continue. It's the highest responsibility. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Iceland's government. On the other hand, it is only natural for us senators, especially the two committees, to discuss the matter. The budget and the what. Economic and business committee, pay attention to all aspects of this matter. Because there are, of course, many ideas that arise. The first opinion is what I think we've settled, i.e. whether or not to sell shares in Iceland Bank. I think the answer to that is yes, that's at least yes, on our part. So the question is, is this the right time period? Then there is a problem, for there are conflicting views. These two committees of the Generals have in their hands various data and have brought visitors to whom many aspects of this matter have been discussed. In the United States, the Federal Bureau of Banks, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which had a very interesting review, the Stock Palace, and since then the labor movement has published a special report made available by the expert team of these parties on the sale and gives evidence that this is not ideal at this point. But as mentioned in my case earlier, it is the responsibility of the government and the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance to continue this matter or not. Our role here, then, is to offer tips on what can be done more effectively in this process. Of course, we should, and on this matter, there are many things or things that need great consideration. I'd like to mention a few things here. It has been discussed that the amount of money to sell in the bank is not clear enough. I think it should be directed to the highest level. Secretary of the budget will be fixed on how much to sell. Then I think it's nice to just stick with the twenty-five percent that's been called, and you can sell up to 25% in the bank, one quarter of the bank, no more in this traffic. Then there are other factors to consider. The objective, of course, is to achieve as the most distributed possession, and therefore conditions for selling the items need to be set. It should also be directed to the highest level. Secretary of finance. I think, for example. that it would be wise to direct it to him to set rules in the invitation that no one can get more than 5% in the bank on this road, i.e. 20% of available objects. Of course, this is to try to contribute to the most distributed possession. Then I think it is also very important to be required, so we should refer to the minister, that everything will be done to ensure that the share of those participating in the invitation with lower amounts, remain intact, i.e. If in due time there will be extra demand, for example. It's the non-deprived ones who wanted to buy up to 10 million. K., which is a substantial amount. But many 10 million are also important in holding such banks. On the other hand, if those who offer more, let this excess be asked, and then they'll be done pro. This I think is a very sensible thing to try to contribute to the spread of property and that it will be possible for the public to participate, if he chooses it, in proportion to his material. Then it must be emphasized that the council is kept informed over what is going on in the next six months until the tender invitation is important, as it is relevant for minimum prices, etc. Because it also needs to be clear that an acceptable offer at the bank cannot be canceled. I also think it is very important that it be made to the highest level. Secretary of the budget that it will be clear that further sales will not be started in Iceland Bank. I guess that, though not out of the question, means that men will tie their hands on the sale until the next election period, which I think is very important. This will be done so that it will be obligatory to wait for further sales to be held at the end of 6◯9 months after the sale of stocks. If we give up that it'll work out then at least let's go 6◯9 months, and at the end of that period, it will be determined how the process of sale, what the price has been, and most notably, the evolution of the bank's ownership of these objects. This I think is very important, so we make sure that we maintain confidence in this process as much as possible. Of course, people are suspicious, and they should not ignore them. For good reason, people are suspicious. Since we have failed in a memorable way to privatize the banks and what goes on, it is very normal for people to be seen and to be taken into account. Therefore, these things need to be done in steps and measures throughout the course of time. There is also one independent reason why people are skeptical, of course, for the reason that two groups in today's government were undeniably in government when the privatization of the first was carried out. And there is a time when characters and players are important here, and it is only natural for people to feel suspicious. It is to be respected and to try to make a solution for suspicion less. We have long had the dream that foreign banks would come here to buy or buy some of the Icelandic banks, or at least to set up branch offices here. It's a dream for decades, and it hasn't yet come true. It is still true that this dream will not come true and is soon remembered by an interview with a representative of Deutsche Bank in the North, which made it impossible for foreign banks to be interested in coming here. Then you can ask: " How is it that we have such a fine bank that is so well - funded and well - funded? Why, then, do not come and buy the foreign banks? There may be many reasons. Of course, the smallest market is one big reason. But I think it's time, too, that we face the fact that business in this area is highly suspicious of our currency, our financial rhythms, and they probably don't think it's worth the risk of coming to Iceland and risking their financial activities while we're with the crown. Of course, there is one of these big things that we have to face and realize that there are many and broad consequences here in Iceland to bear this coin that will do us much more harm than good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u98	A respectable president. We're here to talk about sales of certain items, which we don't know who's gonna be, in Iceland Bank. One thing is certain, he can hardly be less than 25% if we're going to sign him at the stock market, because that's the standard that buys him, that about 25% of the company's ownership share is registered there for him to live there. It is clear that a group of people have a clear direction regarding the process that is now being carried out on this trade. We simply say, " No, it's not time to go into this business, just not at all. ' I'd like to remind you that it was in February just a year ago that the State's Bankisit Act was accepted. With law on No. 88/2009 was put in charge of the Bank County. Her natural goal was to put her arms around the libraries and put them in prices. In the 9th. it was specifically stated that she had completed her work no later than five years after her appointment, that there was no sunset law or anything that would be valid for her. But strange as it was, the Bank Office was amiss. V.E.G. The secretary of finance was the secretary of the bank after the Bank Department had finished my job and was no longer legitimate, which took place on August 20, 2014, five years after the Bank County Act was given. After that, we sold our share at Arion Bank, 13%, and then the famous hostage business, so I've thought it wasn't all as it should be. One thing is clear, the public's trust in the government is completely down the basement. Public trust in financial companies is also in the basement. We haven't forgotten the privatization that took place in 2002-2003. We haven't forgotten her yet. We haven't forgotten that it took just six years for this wonderful privatization to blow things apart. A new legalization followed in 2012, and new financial laws began to be used in an effort to overcome the threat of disaster that was imposed on us and the nation in the collapse of the bank, the 2008 economic collapse, repeated itself. The arguments presented in the middle of a pandemic are that we need to look for, for example, the ability to achieve it. to us some of the money we have in property, as in this case 25 billion, possibly 30, has sold at a 25% share in Iceland banking. Then we may be able to reach our business maybe 25 to 30 billion. But there is also a collection of our own money, over 40 billion in the bank, and we are at our disposal to take out 25 billion of it as one of the bank's owners. In effect, we would continue to own the bank and wait for a better chance to put it in the market. Here are individuals who say: "We can't really know what we're getting and what we're worth on the market, what the thing in the bank is worth until we've advertised it for sale and see how the market's reaction to it. That's right. But then the other thing that high-ranking representatives of the Ministry of finance have told us when they are accepted. But if we were to get unacceptable offers, what should we do? So should we stop selling? Of course we would have to. But at the same time, the message is clear from the Ministry of Economic Affairs: It would dishonor our credibility to be rocked back and forth on the market and say, "Hey, we may be selling, please. But no, we're done because you're not offering enough. Second, I would like to point out that we have no idea who to sell and how much. There's no roof, there's no floor, there's nothing. Is there a chance that individuals should be allowed to buy? Should ordinary people in the country be allowed to buy something? If so, how much? A hundred thousand dollars ago. 150,000 bucks.? Who are the real ones who can buy shares in the bank? It's quite clear that there are very few, at least In view of this timing, which is marked by an absolute failure there, a chance for us at this speed of light, to try to advertise and attract foreign investors, and much less foreign banks. One of the reviews is that this time is a failure to conclude that, unfortunately, we cannot assume that we will have a serious competition, that a foreign bank or someone else would give us some resistance in the form of market competition. Yeah, it's the pension fund, a respectable president. The Pensions now own more than 40% of all property in the country and stocks. As a result, they may have to do some 17 billion each month. This whole pension system is like a money machine, that's 17 billion a month they have to try to invest, money they have to make somehow. They are required to do so, and the law and the rules indicate that there must be 3.5% requirement for producing fruit. Each of us naturally realizes that this is a completely unrealistic requirement, based on the fact that steering growth has fallen to 0.75 percent. Anyway, there's the situation. And what's the pension fund? Yes, they have up to 40% of all companies. They are also borrowing funds, and they also have a lot of money at Arion Bank, and they may become the biggest buyers in Iceland. But all of this is something to speculate about. We're trying to figure out who's got enough money. A fellow soldier may have enough money, and his pensions have plenty of money. These people may be able to come in there. If it's the pension fund that's doing this big part in Iceland Bank, what are they talking about? What is the real value of buying into a business, being in charge, having an effect, and being responsible for bringing in the money that the shareholders have put into it? Yeah, it's making a lot of money. It's trying to make as much money as possible, so it tells itself that it would not be a question of whether the owners of the funds are benefiting from having these items in the banks. I can't figure out why running a bank is worse for us, the state of England. I can't see this excessive risk, for the only time in the century that all went to steak was when the bank was private. We haven't forgotten. V.E.G. The minister of finance spoke earlier today in an unprepared inquiry to me about the Road Bank, happy memories, that the story should be looked up, and the way things were going down. It's just that the load was completely different. They certainly lent a lot of money, bought and made money in tugs, and so on. We're in a whole other place. Although I'm often considered old - fashioned and I don't know what, I don't think I'll go all the way back to the Road Bank to try to justify the need to sell a bank. Speaking of the scattered estate, there is no evidence in this, neither in the reviews nor in the interviews that we in the financial committee have had with those who have come to the table, that this will be a widespread possession. Nothing. It's just the pension fund that comes in there and probably few. But the minimum factor is to make sure that we make sure that we make the best of our resources. We were imprisoned in 2015 for the stability that occurred after the collapse and all that. No one should have forgotten where we were then, especially the 12,000,15,000 families left on the street and lost their homes in that horror. The fact is, though, that we have not forgotten anything. We're going to take these assets and sell, in this case just to sell, just because the capitalist talks, because it has to be placed somehow, because the state doesn't own and is not to be given to run a business. It's just bullshit, a respectable president. There's nothing wrong with running banks. I'm going to point out that banks have never yielded so much money to one another since the collapse of the economy and the third quarter quarter of 2020. We haven't seen our fourth quarter yet, but I'm excited about it. I'm really excited about that. In fact, I find it irresponsible to always call here clean: Sell, sell, sell. I was talking about the Bank County, which, in February 2020, again became legal. As early as March, she was suggested to sell banks. All right, it's her goal to try to get rid of the government, so she was set up. But then this thing comes back up just the day we're going on Christmas break, we're gonna have this in our arms. And what a speed of light. The case should come from the committee on Wednesday if everything continues. It is not as if a financial minister has no legal right to simply sell the whole bank if he wants to. He can only sell it all. We've agreed with it by the budget. But it is also mandatory that he make certain reports from both the Economic and Business Committee and the financiers in this case. I mean, more of these committees could say: we just want to wait and see, we're in the middle of a pandemic. To any nation, it has been thought of trying to sell banks or one or more in the middle of a pandemic except ourselves, Icelanders, the natural independent party, because it's so great. It is quite remarkable that we will not have more time to discuss these matters. No matter what we say on the government side, no matter what evidence there is on this table, we see that all the evidence on this table is fallacious. But it doesn't matter, Mr. Honorable President, because it's going to be sold anyway. It's theirs, it's theirs. There's a lot of them, and that's democracy. It's just to be sold, no matter what happens, whether there's trust and credibility behind it. No, it's just supposed to take a chance. It is also wonderful, more dignified, that it is being done right before elections, 15 minutes of elections. But then I'm also going to say: " Woe to them if the stores that are frozen get put on a fire sale so that some people with a pocket full of money can benefit from investing in the frozen loans of those who are on ice trying to put them in shelters, especially travel companies. Woe to them if they're going to collect them fully and attack these same companies because they've been authorized, whatever they may be, in order to gather these assets on a fire sale. I hope we never have to look at exactly what we had to watch in the last financial breakdown. I just hope so. But I can't see any guarantees, anywhere in the law or anywhere, that it's guaranteed that this will not be done on the loans. I can't see it. A respectable president. I'm totally clear about this. We do not even have the opportunity to see if there is anything else in the situation. It was, for example, a... Can this bank be united? We've got two of us, almost. Could they be united? No. Is it market compression? It's not competitive enough. But isn't it true that governments with more than 60% of the financial market are in the palm of the layer of giving real competition, creating a real competition ground in the financial market? Or is it enough to say, "We're losing control growth to 0.75 percent, see just how low the interest is?" At the same time, though, we're paying up to 5% interest in business banks and 0.05% of us on credit, if not completely down to 0.02%. I don't know any better than the government has been reducing bank taxes and doing everything in her power to try to adjust even further and ensure even better handling the banking system, the banks that are bursting of money, a respectable president, so it's totally clear. They're bursting of money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's always fun to listen to what's happened. A senator, especially when she is in great need, and she seemed to be in this speech. Still, there are questions I have to ask. A senator to help me understand her stand on the matter. Hv. A senator said that no nation ever considered selling banks in the middle of a pandemic. Today, too, very few nations have thought of having most of the rest of the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u100	Irish, Norwegians.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u101	- Not as big as the Icelandic state in the financial system, although it is quite known that the State is involved in some financial enterprise. But like a dog. A senator came in fine, and he is fully aware of two of the three companies in the state. Then I'd like to ask, so I'll get clear of each attitude party. The senator's opinion is, what do you think? A senator normal for the State to have a large share in our financial system and for how long? Counts 'em out. A senator that it is reasonable to expect the government to dispose of the property in Iceland bank and use anything else? Or thinks so. A senator normal that the state has complete bank and bank of Iceland for the long future? In case of a moment. A senator believes that at some point, it is appropriate to dislodge the possession, how do you feel? A senator needs help? What time point might be correct in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. I told it here at the beginning that it was absolutely clear what we at the League of Nations feel about the proposed sale of these property items in Iceland Bank, using probe at this point, and it's absolutely no. Is it natural that the state keeps this property in the banks and for how long? Yes, it is 100% normal in the light of the way we received this possession and how much money it gives us today, which has been worth tens of billions of dollars since we received the banks. Yes, it is normal when we prove to be very successful, as the third quarter of a year shows correctly. The people don't want to see them do business when everything's going well with the banks, while we're having a brand-new pandemic. The dog. A senator standing here just doesn't know how long it takes to try to get something balanced in this pandemic. So I'm just saying, hello, hello, stop, as the good text says, just right now. I feel like it's going fast, speed of light, going into this process of sales with all too much interest. A respectable president. It's not for me to be bored that the light isn't flashing, but I'm beginning to think it's broken because I've said so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u103	A respectable president. I must begin by declaring that I do not understand the speed of light being spoken of. And it's not just in speech. Rather, it has been observed in the talks of more members of Congress today that all of this is in such a hurry and as if it were just falling out of the sky that it was a possible idea to release property on the bank of Iceland. Of course, it has been in the past since those properties came into the State that at some point it would be very normal to release them. It has been established that this is the policy of this government, that an entire white book has been written about it, and we have discussed it here in the Senate Hall and in the committees. It's been issued in budgets year after year. All talk of a light speed and that it's so unexpected, and so on. It's just absurd, just nonsense and nonsense. On the other hand, it is interesting to find out which categories of people are reasonable that the state has a bank and not just one, not just a share, but two out of three. It's good for the people to know that this is the policy of the party. Hv. A senator also came into it earlier and spoke something as if the state could not own or run any company, that would be the policy of this government, and especially the policy of the party I work for. I'm gonna say no to that. On the other hand, I want the government to focus primarily on the interests of the public in this country and on the security, quality infrastructure, transport, communication, health, education, or social systems. This is what I want the government to focus on, and less on, that the state is floundering with money in banks or telecommunications or airlines or other items listed. It would be nice to get it from time to time. The senator of what kind of business does he believe the State should practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. The question is, What kind of business? In this case, we take as soon as possible what's on the shoreline. I forgot to say it to what. A member of Congress earlier in the past, that the people's party has never spoken of the state's supposed to fire two banks out of three. We're talking about the wrong timing. Right away. A senator says it won't fall out of the sky and it's in a government contract, I guess. A senator is referring to the White Book, so somehow we all assumed that a bank will take a trade course. I think we've all been absolutely clear that when the Independence Party is in control, he must want to sell the banks, and that's naturally one of the reasons for this government union. But in the meantime, a strange thing happened. We had an epidemic of crown virus all over the world, not just here. That really worked for the whole economy. That's why I say, is now the right time? We removed a law on public finances to try to manipulate the legislation so we, the government, and all of us could possibly help companies with the crisis of this epidemic and economic crisis. We took a law on public financial matters out of touch. We need to realize that it is not always possible to talk about what was being written when a government covenant and something like it was written in 2017. Today, in 2021, we have been fighting a pandemic for almost a year. I think it's time to go. Congress officials, even though they want to privatize all creations, are aware of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u105	Mr. President. It may not be surprising that the person standing here rejoices that there will be a small step, just a small step, in terms of releasing the government's holding on finance. The final decision, however, has not been made, in contrast with what some members of the council have spoken today. It will not be taken until spring when all the preparations and reports are made. There is no debate that the business of the Icelandic government in a financial market is greater than in any other country we would like to compare with. It is only in Russia, North Korea, several states of North Africa and South America that the government's history of financial markets is as great or greater than it is in Iceland as it is in this state, and so many senators are apparently wanting to maintain. By the end of the third quarter of a year, the bank and the Bank of America's own money was about 430 billion dollars. The market value of this part of the estate, if any, can be expected to be 3,40,400 billion. That's how much depends on what numbers we're looking at and which bank we're taking into account, here and on the other side of the North countries. In other words, up to 400 billion of our combined resources are bound in two financial companies. In addition, we have decided to bind tens of billions of loans. It is worth considering, when we consider taking this small step in releasing property, that the state has not really rode a very fat horse from property on a variety of loans. Here, earlier today, it was found that the accumulated losses on the IL, the old housing loan fund, lie around 200 billion. In addition, over the years before, in the early 2010st 2011s, approximately 60 billion into the apartment loan fund. The plan to sell part of the government property in Iceland's bank in general tenders and to record the stocks in the market is of my opinion. As government funds collect debts, it is wise to obtain possessions, especially those that the State has never intended for an extended period of time. It has been the red thread here in all the discussions today, from previous financial advisers to current financial ministers, that no decision has been made that the State is a majority owner or allifier in an Icelandic financial market has been made. In fact, it can be said that from 2012 onward has all governments, each in its own way, kept their policy to reduce the progress of the state in a financial market. Still, the timing of the occasion is made up of some special debater. But I also feel that there are other things to be forgotten about, other important things, when it comes to the export and registration of the stock markets of Iceland. I think senators might have been a little more attentive to the effect this first little step could have on the development of a stock market in Iceland. I'm going to argue that in the coming years and decades, one of the main schemes for the development of the economy here in Iceland is a powerful, active stock market and ensures good access of enterprises, active enterprises, and, in particular, innovation companies, to the financial value, whether in the form of stock or loan. There's no way to share that when a company as big as an Icelandic bank is registered in the Icelandic stock market, it just makes the stock market grow. Rather, we do well to ask ourselves, " Is there all we can do to build up the stock market, increase its activity, and increase my share of the public's employment with direct purchase of stocks? ' I'm one of the people who've put up a bill here on a tax-based impulse to encourage individuals to invest in registered stocks. We may also want to consider this along with future sales and registration of Iceland's stocks, how we could encourage and help pay people directly to participate in Icelandic employment, especially in the form of investments in registered stocks. We see, Mr. President, the public interest, the interest of individuals, of laying at least A part of their savings in stocks has been growing over the past year or two. It has taken a considerable amount of time to rebuild a normal stock market. Thus, the number of individuals who have shares in registered enterprises or associates in a Icelandic trade store last year doubled from 8,000 to 16,000 at the end of the last year. We also see that the work of the stock market has been increasing, but there is one problem in the Icelandic stock market what it has been building. There is no doubt that registration of such a powerful and elegant company as Iceland's bank will only strengthen the stock market, its prices, its effectiveness, and increase the public interest in participating in Icelandic employment, especially through the registered stock market. In this regard, it can be said that the timing of a prospective discharge and registration is just fine. There is evidence that a stock market, both here and also in other countries, is growing stronger. Of course, historically low interest rates are still another factor in promoting the demand for stocks and in general promoting employment investments. Trends in stock markets last month support the claim that this may be the right time to take this little step. It is worth pointing to and considering in this regard the successful discharge of Icelanda in September. Since thousands of individuals were enrolled, and beyond request for these letters was 85%. At that time the little shareholders were not inferior, but only those who wanted to increase their lot. It is a role model that I believe that the State, the treasure, the minister of finance, the Bank Office, should be exemplary. Trends: The VAT has increased by 26% since the middle of the last year and has never been higher and the stock prices of the two banks registered in Iceland have never been higher. Since the middle of last year, the stock market has increased by 79% and Arion's letters have increased 39%. The balance of financial companies, banks, and insurance companies has increased by 42% at the same time. In other words, the market is in a swing. So, "That's a good time to take this first step. " The Naziq attribute of the Norwegian bank has increased by 18% from the center of the last year and the Cantx Europe 600 banking count by 19%, and this is how long it can be estimated. The Dow Jones banking count has increased by no less than 41% since the end of June of the past year. Of course, it should be kept in mind that the market may change. They can change for the worse. Give negative developments on financial markets reason to expect that no acceptable prices for the stocks of the state that will be offered for purchase, 25-◯30%, or whatever it will be, the secretary of finance should reevaluate that plan and even cancel the invitation and registration of the letters as he has declared, did it earlier today. Mr. President. I believed, the childish belief, that there was no political dispute over the release of the state's ownership of the financial system, that the issue was primarily about whether and how much of the State's property should be owned in one of the business banks, and then the Land Bank has been generally looked to. I don't agree with that attitude, but I understand that. I understand the reasons behind it. Throughout 2012, policy has been set that the possession of property should be released and that, at that time, it was not as much as it is today. In the long-term government projection of partnerships and left greens in terms of gross government funds, plans, as stated, were made for substantial revenues of the state's sales of property shares in partnerships and businesses, particularly the government's sale of financial stocks. In the years 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, it was aimed at making a major sale of financial parts of the State. But now, nine years later, they say, Mr. President, it's not the right time today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. If anyone would let me know, I'll be a little confused when I listen to the senators discussing these plans for sale. I want to pray. A senator to explain to me whether he agrees. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said earlier in this discussion, that he wanted to arrange things so that each buyer would go out in this step, he could have no more than 2353% in the bank. Is this something that's between the government and the government, or is it just something that's wrong? A senator, an agent of the Left Green on the Economic and Business Committee, puts forward his personal opinion? The executives then talk about this as a small step, but the Wall Street Hall sets a minimum of 25%, and that's no maximum. The data we're working with here show no maximum potential. In fact, if we are to hope to get a foreign person to buy an item desirable, especially if he has something to run a bank, there must be at least 51% available. I want to pray. A senator to review this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u107	Mr. President. No limit? No, there is not a limit to the fact that there is no such thing. But I can tell you what. To the senator that we have won in the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, and I plan to do what? A senator's hands will be delivered shortly, at least So before midnight, if God's will is, it's straight to the highest. Secretary of finance to consider a few things. One is the maximizing of each candidate's share, called 2.5◯3% of the bank's total share. That, however, is a considerable part of a 25% discharge. It also points out that it is true and wise to set the minimum and to maximise the cost of the government's first step, minimum of 25%, maximum 35%. As I mentioned earlier, Mr. President, it is also noted that it is wise to consider ensuring that small investors, e.g. those who register for a million or less, do not have to suffer if the extra demand is made in the invitation, but will only be restricted to the larger ones. Me and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson is an intervening force in this matter, like most people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u108	Mr. President. That's a lot of news. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, here are the truths to the people here on board who are also members of the Committee and who have not been given the opportunity to review these items. But all right, here's how the greater part works at the Allied Parliament. I'd like to ask them what. A senator: Let's just say it's the highest level. Ministers just don't do it any more. So he no longer uses the support of the members of Congress, at least the two mentioned here? Or is it just kindly, something to make things look a little better, to calm down a little bit? Because it's exactly what people think is a strange time to sell banks, when there is such uncertainty in the economy and in this deep crisis. There is suspicion, and it is important to address them with suspicion. The other part may be doing just that by its approach that I haven't seen, maybe it's sent it to me, I don't know. I am not in a position to say that I did research. All I had in this discussion is the evidence presented to the committee prior to the discussion. That's what it's like if it's the highest. The minister does not follow the point of the greater proportion recommendation that he will no longer have support, at least not to take part of the banks?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u109	Mr. President. Of course, all things can be taken lightly if one thinks so. If that's what it's all about. A senator making this sale suspicious, or the tactics we've had in a financial and business committee, is really not a lot of answers. I felt that we would agree that it would not be reached by all members of the committee, so everyone was involved in a mutual review, but would be replaced. I'll think about it. A senator intends to give up his own review, but he becomes part of all of it. What I'm trying to inform you here is just what most of the thing has been going over. It's a drag and it'll be sent to members of the committee if it's not over, later tonight. Do not try to make things more cynical than they are. At least we're showing you how to play cards. And in the morning, at nine o'clock, 10 o'clock, the committee will meet to discuss this. We're pointing it to the highest. Secretary of finance, but mostly of the Bank Office, because it is the one responsible for the implementation of this campaign that these factors will be considered, and at least, then, at least. make the decision not to maximise the share of individual oers in future tenders. There must then be evidence for not doing so. There's evidence to that. It may lead to a lower price. On the other hand, I think it would be wise and in the spirit of trying to ensure a scattered possession, especially for a longer time, that this is done in this way, and hopefully other members of the committee will be able to agree more fully with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u110	A respectable president. Should the State sell a bank or a share in a bank or a State's possession? What is the role of the State? I suppose it's surprising that personally I don't think it's the job of the state to run a bank. I will say, though, that I am not entirely opposed to the fact that the State has a share in a bank. [[For example: Well?]] I don't think it's such a good idea. Still, the situation is that we have two of the three business companies. I feel that this is unacceptable and undesirable for a long time. You see, I'm so convinced that I feel that the role of the State should be to consider the security of the people of the country, to make sure that there are enough infrastructures to allow people to move around, to do telecommunications, enjoy services, and so forth. I believe that the role of the State is to include the most powerful and the best health systems in the world, the most powerful and good education and social services, and the security network for all of us. To say that the state also has a rich obligation to keep an important box about operations like a bank. But what is the background of this case? Some have wanted it to sound as if it somehow fell from heaven and everything is in such a hurry. They want to make something of so much distrust around it as if everyone here was completely surprised that perhaps it would be wise to suggest that the state of government would be free of funds from banks. If so, I would like to remind you of the White Book, the fine literature we have discussed in the Hall and in the committees of the council. She also had much discussions in the community, perhaps more discussions. Then we'll get a detailed report on this proposal now. The bank has been entrusted with legal rights to the bank. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to read up the most obvious part because I feel that it has only been lost here during the discussion, which is the main objective of the government's sale of things in Iceland banking. They are very detailed in the report from the secretary of finance. These aims are to reduce the State's risk of such a large financial share, to promote active economic competition, to maximise the reimbursement of the holding and sale of holdings, to promote a wide variety of, healthy, and distributed property over time, to increase investment options for domestic and professional investors and, in particular, to reduce the debt or increase the State's scope for social interest. I find it hard to understand that someone does not agree with those goals, but I can understand that people have different viewpoints and opinions on those means of reaching these goals. Then you can ask: Is this how the economic situation is? It is handled well, and many factors recommend that the economic situation is simply a good idea to sell a bank. Of course, we do not know exactly what the future holds. As a result, it may be wise to look for some of the ownership of Iceland Bank, somewhere around 25%, as suggested here, not 100%. It's not that I'm talking about selling the whole bank, even though I've been ready to take that conversation. I agree with the evidence that it may be wise to remove this object by means of the clear method suggested here, by documenting this item on the market and seeing who will buy and what people are willing to pay for this item. So that can be a good lesson from the sale of this 25% object, or something around it, that we use to continue working to dislodge the state's ownership of the bank. A lot of discussion has been done here today, and in fact in the community, about the bank's sales. It will come to the legal level, but it has to be said at the moment, a respectable president, that some people just talk like this in 2010, or something like that, before we definitely beat Iceland record, and although others were looking for, in a number of bills and legislations that all were looking for to secure the environment. A vast number of legal bills have passed through here, and in recent years the council has covered these increasing demands. There is an increased demand for your own money, free money, steady funding, and a limit to loans. The restrictions on business banking are the bill that we soon issue, specifically on government practices, on appropriate owners, on risk management, on buying, on how to deal with banks'problems, on how to protect their partners, and so on. Therefore, it is more difficult for me to think that those who may have something to check on the environment we live in today's financial companies will simply offer suggestions on what to do differently but will not overlook the enormous changes that have taken place in the legal and surveillance environment. I'm just gonna stand here and promise that I will collapse the banks as we watched 2008 and 2009 won't repeat itself. It won't happen again. I'm not going to promise that a bank will never go backwards because banking is a real risk, as in most other business. But I'm sure that what happened won't happen again, because we've already made up for it. That's why I sometimes fear that we are too trapped in the past and not looking to the future too much. Of course, we should learn from the past and from the mistakes it may have made and build around it. But we must look to the future. In fact, I am much more concerned that something may happen in the future, something that we have not seen, and they need to be placed in our surroundings and laws, than exactly what happened in the past. As a result, the discussion has been focused on how the banking system will be. I heard one before. A senator insists that we cannot sell our share in Iceland banking because we still don't see what the bank system will be like in the future. I'm not sure that it's our job here to decide what the future of a banking system in Iceland will be. Well, we're supposed to put a frame around it. We're here to decide which environment they live in. We're here to secure the best interests of the private. Of course, we're supposed to make sure that the banking system, I'm not even sure that a word will be used in the future, serve the purpose that is needed. I don't think we can determine exactly what it'll be like. You see, I think the future of financial activity is very different. All we see is what's going to change with this thing here, the phone. We can do most of our business over the phone, but not just banking, but a lot of other companies are offering services that used to be just inside the banks. That is especially why I think there is even more risk than often of holding financial assets. This is a changing world and I believe that we will see significant changes in the activities of what we know today as a bank, but perhaps something else altogether. That is why I say: I think it is wise now to take the modest step involved in registering the bank in a stock market and thus freeing a certain amount of money or money from the state that is better used to reduce the debt of the state so that it can continue to make powerful structures inside. I think there's a moderate suggestion here. We've secured transparency. We've secured the law frame. Let us use this opportunity now, when there is evidence that there is a good time to sell and sell a thing, just a thing. Let us see where that leads us to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u111	Madam President. The fundamental question I have on a budget board is, Is it being treated well with public funds? I think that's the basic question that we should all ask ourselves about the tax system and the assets we take on behalf of the nation. There's my opening point and Pirate in this discussion. We're the only group that can't guess whether you want to sell the stocks of Iceland bank or not, if you walked on the line, honestly. When I consider this matter, I try to see how this route is the best use of public funds. I see the cost of having 400 billion tied up in financial companies. I also see the interest that comes from that investment. That's what I'm going to have to compare with what's going to be done with the money we're dealing with on the bank. That's when the profits go out. And what will replace it? According to a financial committee, there is either a reduction in the need for payment and, therefore, a lower rate of growth. Nice. Can I see the difference? How does that look? Or to develop some form of more profitable community projects. All right. What do they look like? We have a law on public financial matters that says that there should be a choice analysis and a benefit analysis on the task that has never been done so that we will not see it. The only practical example is to compare what we gain with what we already earn on interest rates and money from the investments we already make. That data is simply not on the table in front of us. [[The president calls.]] Then I ask, why are we even talking about this before we get that data?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u112	A respectable president. Of course, I'm going to agree that we should always ask ourselves, " Is the public money being treated well? ' Of course, it is a fundamental question that we in this room should ask about all government expenses. Hv. A senator asks about data, and I understand that, it would be really good if we could get calculations on this, since this is calculated entirely, possibly lower interest payments, if we now sell this thing against what we're going to get on in the next few years. Of course, there is always some prediction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u113	Same to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u114	Yes, the other too, but it is the reality that we live in. It's just not that we can put it up quite in excel, that's why we have to assess the pros and cons. In my speech earlier, I was trying to say that banking is a risky business. In almost every business, there's a risk. I think there is even more risk to the future than there is in the past. Yes, we have seen a lot of money coming out of the banks that the government fund has benefited from, but it is not from the regular activity of the bank. This is because after the collapse, possessions are still being loosened. It is simply more available for the assets than the proportion we paid for the demands. I believe the next year's bank payments will be nothing in harmony with the money we've been getting. I can't put my finger on exactly what it may be, but there's some speculation about it. Hv. A senator asks: "Why should we be talking about selling things over our heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u115	Until we get these data.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u116	Yeah, until we get those data. As I say, I think, yeah. A senator, that the reality we're in isn't that we can put everything in excel and figure out from A to Z. We have some odds, we can go over the pros and cons and evaluate it, but the basic end point, of course, I don't think the state should have so much of the financial system, because it includes risks we also have to evaluate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u117	A respectable president. You can certainly not put everything in an excel, but you can try. It's possible to perform a staging analysis, cost-and-exploitation analysis and the like. That is a requirement under the law on public financial matters. The argument comes so often, I think it's very desirable, that they always say, "You can't put everything in an excel. Still, it is possible to decide. Yet there are no excel documents for the decision to go this way. You can't hold and release, use the same lines on both sides. You must carefully examine the evidence used in the criticism of the solution to the situation. My critical point of all this process is the deadline, the absence of time. Why are we doing this at such speed? That complaint has to do with the case of the Generals, not everything necessary since 2013 and may be running out of business now, turns around that the council is receiving a monthly report from the Minister: Finish this by January 20, thank you very much. That is despite the fact that the Ministry and Minister have absolutely no invitation to the General for an appointment. The General will complete his case, examine it at its time with the demands for the quality of the work to be done and expected to be done. The suspicion of selling banks is high enough, so let us not try to add suspicious things to that process. When a minister arrives and says: "Get it over with. ' Of course, we should say: " No, we have to do this in a responsible way, and we need to take the time we need to do this. It's just said, January 20th, month, so please, let's do this. End of story. We've already noted that there is no evidence as I've talked about here. Well, at least they're supposed to try to get them, but there's number one to try to provide them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think we also need to remember to ask ourselves the question: " Is the State to own two thirds of business banks? That's the question we asked ourselves, so they put it on. Our view is not that there are two business banks of three. So, what do we do? We need to get rid of the possession. They've been working on it, like the driving force. A senator knows well. That is why selling is a legal authority. But we also have a law on how to bring up the sale, and the law is that a minister should seek the counsel of the Generals. Is that delay short? I don't know. I've felt the job, at least on the committee I'm sitting on, yeah. The Economic and Business Committee, it's going very well. We have received good visitors, a good report, and we have been able to communicate well. We've been here all day, and we'll have to expect until midnight to discuss this matter. I do not personally experience a lot of time pressure to decide whether it is a good idea now to get rid of this little thing and then by what means. I agree with the evidence that the method suggested here is clear and effective in evaluating the value of the bank, and this is a good first step. What may confuse the discussion is that people seem to go back a little bit and wonder: " Why are we going to sell? But that has always been the goal. The question is, Is there anything at that time now that makes us say, "No, no, no? " All right, I'll listen to that argument and we've had some of that reasoning in our heads. The Economic and Business Committee. But we have also come to believe that now is the right time, in this low-growing environment, the pension fund needs to be released, we need to build up the stock market. This is a very good time point for removing a small part of the possession. That's the reasons I've agreed, and that's why I intend to agree with the review of the Economic and Business Committee that this is a good time point, and we need to continue with the procedure set up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u119	President. As members of the Parliament, we need to recognize our partiality and where it lies. It is relatively obvious on all ideological grounds that the independent party and its members are biased about selling state owners. It requires that people especially view these data, better than others, to make sure that the partiality of the particular category, others too, is not involved in the case. Now a little interesting comments have been made in question. It's a legal committee. The main points are the reviews of the Contestance Commission. It simply says that selling this object was not an analysis of the competitive effect of selling it. It is a simple thing that governments need to do when making decisions about what to do with public property, with public funds. It wasn't done. The White Book reviews various possibilities for the release of property. But something has happened since December 2018. We are in the midst of an economic crisis, a pandemic, which must have some effect. Despite the position of the stock market, it is likely to reevaluate that position in any way and in that analysis, there are things that I don't think are accurate enough, I think they are more opinions, certainly based on evidence, but not sufficiently accurate transfers to whether one way is better than others. Then I'll make a special requirement for the way you choose here. She looks fine and is transparent to the buyers who will follow up on the process. However, it does not have a clear view of government decision to choose this way over others. It's a little fast. That is not all the process that is behind making a decision as to whether to sell a bank in Iceland or not. This has been a long period of legal record, so the process has been very successful. Now that the decision has been made to sell them, we will take a certain speed that we should reduce simply to do things well. It was reported in the General's study report on the privatization of banks and crashed that there was a process, but it was not necessarily followed, which was changed a bit afterwards. Here we see a shortage of conditions that governments will look to in the future when decisions are made. The process, the process of sales, is fine and looks good, but the introduction of ministers to all that process is unclear. What are the standards that the government takes into account when making decisions about the next step in the process, when it is finally time to decide whether the hall should be done or not? Again, I'm worried about the bias. V.E.G. The minister of finance is a member of the Independence Party, who is biased about selling government property. It's impossible to wonder if such a person is the best person to be on the brake, whether the sales are such, so to speak, so that public funds are handled. I took an example here some time ago, in the United States, a government that would not apply for involvement in the European Union but simply tie the application with some letters. The interpretation of the application was still in place, and the government is to follow the standards of Congress that are in force, as well as to present a new contemporaneous view of reprisals which was not made. Instead of repealing the synopsis, it was simply decided to ignore it. It's a very strange administration to do that. If the government had decided to proceed with the application procedure for any reason, it would have been a very bad idea to send someone who was opposed to going into the European Union for negotiations because the person could benefit from having a poor contract as an assembly and a nation would rather than have a good deal, which for some reason would be much better than everyone expected, and that everyone could make an informed decision and say, "It's just fine, let's do this. This partiality must be kept in mind when making decisions like these. Is the individual in any way biased, which could affect whether the process and the outcome will be good or bad? It is simply what we call in, that the government's duty was to bring the transparency on its side. The transparency in this process is fine. There is nothing on the basis of the government's transparency. Hence, it is completely omitted to explain why fusion is a bad idea, in view of the option to sell a property item or to separate businesses and investment banks, perhaps selling them the investment section instead of selling 25% in the whole bank or, like, the whole bank. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson mentioned, perhaps taking to heart some of his own money and reinvestment in business. The government does not argue that the other avenues available are worse than this. The logic is missing. It is simply not acceptable after all. I would think that it would not even be difficult to bring that support, but he must exist. We know this, and all of us should be aware of this from the National Court's case how the reasoning support provided by a minister did not meet the demands for good government and the consequences. This is no different, the minister and the government need to provide sound support for their decisions. He's missing. That's how I come in anyway, and me and the Pirats in general, to do it. Is the matter sound enough to be reasoned? When it is, and the reasoning can be considered, it is really possible to talk about whether the idea is in one way or another good and then there are various political ideas about whether a particular point is more valuable than another. In contrast, there may be values that have different political support, which is not so easy to put in an excel document. But the answer to the criticism we brought is that everything cannot be put in an excel document. At an assembly it is not even tried to put the process which was determined in an excel-tail. Why, then, should I view the suggestions that are different from guesswork, based on certain ideologies, bias rather than an informed discussion of real advantages and faults, all down to crowns and pennies? I can put up an example where banks make money. That's what we're getting for the investment of being owners, against taking that investment back and investing in something else, or reducing debt or something similar. Then I see the profits in it, and we choose the natural best way to use public funds. I want to make it perfectly clear that it is not a good idea for the state to have two banks, of course not. In this regard, why should the State really compete with itself? Finally, we are considering that the state has one bank, which is probably just a bank, not an investment bank, and provides specific basic services. When and how we get there must always be the question, and there must always be evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u120	Mr. President. Iceland Bank is a public property, and the bank's prices range from 130 to 160 billion dollars. He became the property of a government fund through the stability of the fallen banks after the 2008 financial collapse, and this was especially the case with the determination and firmness of former prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunal's Gunnlaugsson, and his government, which the bank became public property, and an important step was taken in getting the nation out of collapse. The government is now planning to sell at least 25% of the next few months, and it estimates the government that for that government it will obtain a total of 3,500,40 billion dollars. The sales will soon take place in the midst of the economic uncertainty of the epidemic. The board of directors, the Independence Party, the Propulsion Class, and the left green seem eager to sell for elections, and to think it might be, by any means, that sales are more important to them than to get the highest price. The government's ownership on two of the three banks of the country is not ideal. It can have a negative effect that the State has such an important share and risks. It's a risk for state funds to tie so much money in these banks for a long time. Official holding of financial companies is considerably less available in the North countries. But what defines the Icelandic fiscal market is that it is a simple market, and the banks are similar to one another. It's the benefit of the public to change that. An increasing competition in the bank market contributes to a lower rate of growth and lower services that are considerably high today and result in increased competitions that also matter and make it easier for people to make bank transactions. The aims to achieve the greatest competition in the financial services market are best achieved by the start of a foreign bank and would also build trust in the Icelandic financial market. Therefore, to attract a foreign bank, it is very important to reduce the accessways in this country. It has been claimed, especially by government officials, that it is very difficult to get a foreign bank to start a business, and almost hopeless. It's been pointed at, including From the Contestant Guard, that there's no way it's been tried. There is no confirmation that any foreign bank is going so hard to start here. The country's public is not particularly interested in the government's plans for selling Iceland banking, and this is understandable in view of what has been going on, after the 2008 financial collapse. Trusting in a domestic financial market has not been great. However, regulations and surveillance have been improved after the collapse and are considerably less likely that new owners can adopt the same tactics that led to the collapse. The greatest chance is that the pension fund buys a large share in the bank and can give evidence that it is not desirable. There has already been a significant share in Arion's bank investments. Let us not forget that the pension fund is competing with the banks, e.g. in a mortgage market, and it may also be reasoned that if the pension fund is involved in obtaining a large share in Iceland banking, they have a large share in two banks of three. This could affect the growth rate in the country and could even reduce growth as a result of the deposit of pensions with a legal interest industry of more than 3%. It is understandable when they become large owners of two banks of three that they become reluctant to lower interest because this is likely to mean that the bank does not get as much money as if they had more interest. This would affect the interest required by the pension fund as the owners of a bank. Mr. President. I think it is wise to wait on Iceland Bank sales until the bank's economic uncertainty has begun and the economy is restored. In addition, there are some details about the bank's position, loan collection, how much is default. Now, after their conversation, I ran an answer to Prime Minister earlier today to the amazing idea of the Bank of Banks and Iceland Bank that the bank trades out a loan to collect companies in a town that then collects loans that have been miscalculated by borrowers who have been in trouble, e.g. Because of the epidemic, and there are many tourism companies, people who have even lost their jobs because of the epidemic or from the illness and who have been divorced. Then the bank would not negotiate with people and look for ways that they could continue to pay and work in their own business, but in a town known to be collected with great financial demands. So there are a number of things in this matter that are very special, and you worry about it. But as mentioned earlier, foreign investors are desirable and hopefully they will succeed. In the middle of the epidemic, however, this is less likely to happen and the potential number of buyers is reduced. It is very important, Mr. President, that we make sure that this valuable property is fully available to the people of the country. In turn, the cost of money should be used in lucrative projects, such as in transportation, and the debt of state funds needs to be reduced as well. Next time, I'm gonna come up with a little transparency in this case. I see, Mr. President, that time has passed and wishes to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u121	Mr. President. Privacy of a bank 15 minutes before election is a big deal. With a private bank at the lowest crisis for 100 years, it's a bad case. This speed and time will mean two things; worse price and worse price for buyers. First, I'd like to draw out the time. She matters. Of course, when a personal bank is attacked is important. It matters when the individual decides to sell his or her property. As it is today, Iceland is experiencing its deepest crisis in 100 years. Not just Iceland, there's a crisis all over the world. No state is selling banks at this time. It has a story that only the government of Iceland decides to make that journey at this point. It says that our position is so special, but I'd like to state that there are plenty of countries involved in banks. I'm going to give a few examples: The Belgian state has 100% in one bank and 8% in the other, in the United Kingdom, its ownership of a bank once Royal Bank of Scotland about 62%, in Finland, runs a number of rural banks, in Greece is the possession of the state from 10% to 40% by which bank we look in and they own 40% at the National Bank of Greecee, in the Netherlands is the possession of the state in De Volksbank 100% and 56% in other banks, the property of the Irish state is 70% to one bank, 75% to one of the other of the bank of Ireland, and 14% to the largest bank of Norway, with a share of the state of Spain about 62% in the bank and of the state of the state, where it belongs to 16% and to the state. I'll mention this as an example, because the conversation has been heard that we have to sell because we have so much money in the banks. We don't have to sell now. There is a discussion that we can well discuss later. It may well be that we're not supposed to have Iceland banking for a long time, but how is it that we're going through this speed in our last year's election season? It is suspicious and raises questions. It's so obvious, if we just speak human language, that at least To attempt to initiate the privatization of Iceland banks before this government is a military option, no matter what the cost. Also obvious to me is the need for much more discussion, a deeper community talk, about this sales. As the situation is today, I can't feel pressure in the community that we're supposed to sell banks, that we're supposed to reinvent our personal development. According to one study, about 60% of the population are anti-selling. I find it so obvious that at this point, the market situation is not practical. The government won't get the full price for selling at this time. That's why time is important. Also, few buyers are available. There's also a crisis with buyers. The evidence shows that no foreign buyers are available. Who, then, is interested in buying a bank today? Let us ask them questions. It matters who has a bank. Banks are systematically important companies. There's been nothing so long since the Icelandic banks owned someone who didn't have the right owners for banks. It was three blocks. Each business chef in Iceland had one bank, and on top of this, the owner's block of each bank was in many cases the biggest lender at the bank. I know the rule has improved since the collapse of the bank. This, however, matters. The track's starting to scare. Let's remember that last time it took a private banking system just five years to run around here. It took only five years for us to lose our private banks until we lost our lives. I'm going to remember that if we had paid the price of these three Icelandic banks together, it would be the fourth largest failure in human history. I'm not using a ballot number, I'm stressing what 2008's bank crash was huge on a global scale. That would be, in effect, the fourth largest failure in history. So let's be careful. I'm not saying the situation is the same, of course not. Things have changed for the better. But why are we in such a hurry? There is uncertainty about the bank property library. About 20% of Iceland's property library is at a stock stop. It has been reported that there are up to 180 billion people who happen to be as high as the bank's own money. Much of the bank property is attributed to tourism companies, which, of course, are in deep trouble today. Travelers rely on the knowledge of the bank and its owners. Mr. President. It's not wise to sell the bank in such a crisis as they have talked about government funds, that there's so much pressure in getting money in the box to pay off debt. We're low in Iceland and out in the world. There's no way to pay off the government's loans. Then I'd like to add that there's a lot of value in this so-called higher than the bank's own money. Money is actually the bank's debt to owners. This number is over 40 billion. You can reduce that to your own money without going down the bank or near the demands you make to the banks for having your own money. If the state funds are in so much trouble and we're going to get 20, 30 billion for this property sale, why don't we drag this money from Iceland to a drop of our own money and get the same amount in the bank and still keep 100% possession of the bank? This route is at least not extinct. I remind you that the Bank of Iceland has paid 70 billion dollars to profit in five years. It's just as much as the Landspit costs. I'm not saying we can expect such money, but we can still expect payment. We have the chance to lower our own money to get more money out of the bank, if that's the right thing. The Land Bank has paid its shareholders, the state, 132 billion in five years. Together, these two government - owned business banks have paid over 200 billion dollars. in the state budget, which is higher than any government objections to Covid in the years 2020 and 2021. Mr. President. Tracks are frightening, especially with the Independence Party in the foregrounds of sales. I don't have to put a lot of words into it. I'd also like to point out that there are significant changes ahead in the financial environment, and there's a general public service, as well. paritaprevir It's been pointed out by Oddný G. Harðardóttir. It may be much wiser to think that the state has banks just as long as we are going through this transitional period. In the United States, we have emphasized the difference between business banks and investment banks. Mr. President. There's so much wrong with this method. There are so many wrong things at this rate and this time. I encourage the people to observe what is happening here, and I urge them here to stop for a moment and think: Could it not be more reasonable to wait, let the time work with them, and eliminate the uncertainty so that there can be a higher price for the government and a more diverse group of buyers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u122	A respectable president. I wonder what. A senator is in the right position at the General Assembly. It sounds like he's a good student of all these sales studies, and here is an offer from the United States for sale. I wondered if she didn't live anywhere else but here. I'd like to know, at least. A senator is such a historian of all this that I am not, and of the market in general, if he could possibly just centralize it to us here and answer a simple question: When exactly is it right to sell? Is it when the prices are high and on the way down? Or is it when the price is low and on the way up? It's just good to get the answer from you because it sounds good. A senator, as I have observed in other people's discussions, is never the right time. But it's a simple question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u123	Mr. President. It is not the time to sell banks to the deepest crisis for 100 years. It is not the time to sell a bank when 20% of the bank's property collection is under payment. It is not the time to sell banks when we look at over our own money at more than 42 billion dollars. It's very easy to answer. There are many reasons why this is not the time to sell banks, and there is no other nation to do so, despite the fact that many other countries have a share in banks. Having one in the bank is not some typical phenomenon. It must be normal to set question marks in time and speed. It's our job in this room to look to public interest. I'm not saying I'm an expert on sales advice, but I'm out of it, just like that. Senator, to be concerned with the interests of the public. There's got to be a higher price to pay for this thing when we eliminate uncertainty. The economy today is full of shit. We don't know what buyers are available here. We know, though, that they are fewer, for the data in front of us says that this time no foreign buyers are likely. I would have loved to get foreign buyers into the Icelandic bank environment. We'd get more competition in this little competition. To me, selling Iceland banks can be an option later, but I can still be against it now because the situation is not practical. It is one of the conditions that the sale should not take place unless the market is practical and I find it obvious that it is not the situation today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u124	A respectable president. I was not going to return to return, but I am moved to do so because of it. In view of his knowledge of the financial markets and the sales counsel in his speech, a senator did not answer my simple question: When? A senator's Right Time to Sell? He described in answer to all kinds of situations that would not be ideal for selling. But when? Watch your step. A senator described when the right circumstances are available to sell such a bank? I also ask, " Is it not the right situation and the right time to sell when someone wants to buy at the price of selling items? ' Isn't that the right time to sell? Will we not see it, decide an outpost at the bank, drag it out into the market, and see who are interested in it? Isn't that possible the only correct answer? The only right time to sell is when someone wants to buy at the price of what the seller accepts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u125	Mr. President. No, I don't think so. There's more to it than that. We need to be careful of the seller's interests, the interests of the public, and I don't think we will. I simply don't think that because of the uncertainty, we're in the middle of a crisis, we won't get the best price we might later get. What if someone wanted to buy land induction and would like to put a price on it? It would not bring in the intention of selling land activation. And then on top of that, we don't know the value of Iceland Bank, it's a little uncertain about the property part. It is an interesting fact that shows how unformed this process is. There are a lot of things we should do before we go into the trade process. I'm not saying it's a religion to own two banks, but I'm planning it better. Let's finish the discussion about separation between investment banks and business banks. As this government has done, let's take over the SEC, but let's not weaken it, as this government has done, by installing it in the Federal Bank. Let's take these steps before we start the trade process, and we'll take a warning from the sale, and we'll get the best price for this object. That must be the goal. Some people might want to give the bank, that's what they've heard. I don't think we should. Let's get this done better. Let's get some more peace on this. It also matters that the nation is somewhat convinced that this is the right thing to do. The track's starting to scare. It is relatively short since we experienced a very painful collapse of the bank. That's why it's a very strange thing to do, too, during the last year of the season. It's supposed to be over in June, 15 minutes before the election. Just that, on its own, must raise suspicions and questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u126	A respectable president. It has been helpful to observe the discussion all day on the report or on the report at the highest level. Secretary of the budget for the proposed sale of a 25% share in Iceland Bank. A planned sale, I say, because years ago, it was decided to authorize sales of the state's assets remaining in the two banks, i.e. National Bank, which will still be after this case goes through 100% owned by the state, and Bank of Iceland. Of course, I appreciate these plans very much, and I don't think it will later be more helpful to take these steps that are now taken in 25% sales, but I have to say, "I'm not going to make a big deal out of it. " Here's what we got. The timing of this sale has been a major concern to many of the council members. I may have missed some speeches, but I don't think I have diagnosed bones or much opposition necessarily to the sale in general, at least not among members of Congress, opposition to these plans. I think it's a sign of time if there's become a general assembly agreement that the state should reduce its ownership of financial markets. It may be that some people feel that there is a need for the State to have part in either bank that remains, but I still rejoice over what I perceive as a general solidarity to carry it out. The decision sounds like a date to me, and I think it's an option. It's like I came in against what. A senator who before me spoke for the United States, and I now called it the Continent's sales counsel because several members of the council there have pointed out that this is not the time. There's more to it than that. Other members of the Governing Body did so without answering exactly when the time will be exactly right. I think it's impossible to predict when it's the right time to sell things on the market. Of course, it will be a seller in each case to find, weigh his interests at any time that may vary from the same segregator's point of view, depending on the materials and circumstances of the individual. This has been a good reason for showing special support for this sale, that it is suitable for government funds to do so now with the goal, which is one of the many goals of this sale, to raise a state fund of income that he sorely needs to support, an important basic service for the next few years that is not intended to be maintained in the way that people expect for the next few years in view of the financial crisis that the government fund has become for the pandemic, which hopefully is now in recovery. It's one of the goals, of making money for the state. Of course, a secondary goal is to minimize the risks of a government fund because of having the same fluctuating activities as the financial markets are. But government funds are way too busy there, and that was never the point. The wealth of government never intended to sit with two banks. After the collapse of the financial crisis, they were caught in the hands of a government fund, and this was not the goal of holding them for long periods of time. This is one of a number of goals. One aim is also to promote and support market trades in Iceland and to participate in commercial activities, to promote active markets with local societies in Iceland. After the financial breakdown, that market became very sad and has not really recovered, and this is one way to strengthen it. But then I find out what I've been discussing with this case, of course, it doesn't concern because it's only about selling the banks, but I've invented an idea that isn't new and not mine but has been in discussions for decades when it comes to the privatizing of government companies in Iceland, which, of course, were many here in years before there are very few very few people today. It is the idea of bringing these government companies into the hands of the public directly by distributing government property shares to the general public, to the Icelandic citizen of 18 years of age and older, or to whatever extent it would be implemented, thus launching items into the market and increasing the prosperity of the households. This would also give further support to an active financial market here because likely some letters would soon change their hands. It all depends on the physical and individual circumstances, as I said at the outset. But I mention this in the light of a discussion, which is a debate raised from the past, but I still heard some noise of it today, about being placed into the hands of some particular people, even selling too cheap and coming into the hands of an accelerator, all these old luminaries that doll up and still have nothing to do with it. I think that men must be able to agree across all categories, and is now perhaps the main vice of this idea that people in all groups could possibly unite in this political process, to promote public capital rule in a way that would be brought directly to the public. I encouraged him. The Economic and Business Committee to discuss this idea in an act like this with this case in its treatment. I don't know how it's gone. But I do encourage the highest. The secretary of finance to consider this idea carefully when it comes to the 75% of the state's share in Iceland Bank, which I hope will be placed in the public in one way or another, either at the same time or soon after this sale will take place. And I think senators should consider the continued sale of property at the Bank of Iceland and the Bank of the Lands, which should be of particular interest to this idea. In order for it to be realized, of course, the legal rights and attendance of the council would be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u127	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen doesn't agree often. In fact, it doesn't happen very often, and I think there's a fixed peak here, i.e. That we are so disagreeable that, as noted in the case of the day, we are united in it. A senator, that the public themselves should share in the bank. But here's some forward-looking ideas. Senator Sigríður Á. Andersen that the public is to share in the bank directly. That's a pretty special idea. She speaks for our selling items at the bank in actuality so that we, the common people, will have it. I would like to have an explanation for this idea of the senator. What does it have to do with direct photos? So, is there no government in the public over this object at the bank? All kinds of cross-country are broke. A senator talking about exactly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u128	A respectable president. The concomitant sales of this 25% are in 75%. If we think of the scene that 50% of the rest of the bank would be distributed to all the public in stock form so that the public would hold at 15% of the stock, of course, he would agree on the government, should have a vote at the top of the bank and so on the streets, exactly as in any other community society. For example, consider what was called the ideal child of the nation, a society founded at the beginning of the 20th century, the Iceland's Emship Society. I think almost all Icelanders made sure of things in that club and had a vote at their main meetings. Of course, such governments as other associates come together. That's what I'm talking about with an intermediate property policy, i.e. Jón Jónsson holding his own share. Of course, it is possible to ensure that the public shares in this trade in other ways. Also, it would be possible to sell and distribute the goods to all individuals. Perhaps it would be equivalent to talking about the public's intermediate ownership authority on things. But I think the other would be an interesting experiment, and I think that is exactly the opportunity to attack it right now in the current year and also in terms of the stock market we need to expand. I think it's important for Icelandic employment and the public to have the opportunity to live and survive by sharing in the companies themselves, directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u129	Mr. President. I can't deny that I don't think there's a speck of plutonium that smells like this proposal. A senator. I wondered, " What is the difference between the public continuing to share their share in the bank? ' Over the last five years, and have slipped into all our systems; the education system, the welfare system, the health system, etc. - what's the difference between the public having this thing? And it goes into the system of us all, and so, like a suggestion of a what? A senator insisted, then, that the common people take control of an object that is supposed to hang with him in some way that I'm not quite sure about what happens? What exactly is the difference between the two?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u130	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of political stench.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u131	Populian.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u132	She said, "Populian." I thought she said political. But well, the difference is, as the arrangement is today, when the State owns some government, the public has no control over such an enterprise. Who's in charge of banks? Who is in charge of these banks? Who's in charge of the Bank County? Does anyone know who these people are? What is truly remarkable is that by the law established by the Conspiracy in the period of the left government, a phenomenon such as the Bank Office was commissioned to propose the sale of banks. That is why we are in such a situation today. That's because the Bank Board sent a proposal to the highest level. Secretary of finance for sale at the bank. It wasn't the highest. The secretary of finance who made the decision, the Bank Office. Who are they? Who chose such a decision? Why was the left government behind in 2012 to hide this authority from some administrative agency and take it from the council itself to decide the bank sale and then decide the exact time on it, since it is so much a matter of the heart of the United States to the right time. But now the Council does not have any resources to decide the timing of these items. This is because they were handed over to some faceless people, some government agency. Of course, I think it's to some extreme shame in itself that the arrangement is so irreverent. Let's just get property items on the banks directly to the public that are involved in the administration of the community. It's not complicated. A senator does not have to complicate it so immensely. It's just as if any other community part of the world would be controlled, and it would be the same as any other community in a foreign country, many of which belong to millions of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u133	Mr. President. It is with these issues, such as many of the biggest, that when we deal with them here in the hall, we are not always on the same page, not just regarding our stand but also the understanding of what we are discussing. In the chapters, I feel as if a section of the Parliament is in the lady of Hamburg, and I have already set aside money for the sale of banks that have not taken place, rather than just that we are here discussing the foundation of the financial system for the next few years and decades. If I were to split up the hall according to which side is spoken, I would say that the members of the council that describes doubts about the process presented here are more likely to discuss the future vision here in the hall, to discuss whether to reassemble the financial system so that it serves the public better, in order that it serves the community better, in order to serve the future, the environment, and all the better that the financial system can do so easily. In contrast, how many billions of people we can expect to get for how many percent of this bank is turning around. Actually, it was the first thing that hit me in the highest voice. Secretary of finance earlier today when he spoke up. paritaprevir Ólafur Ice Ísleifsson to the total value of the bank, as it said, 100% of the bank, is sure to release more than 100 billion. Wow, no more than that, I thought. We're standing in all of this for a quarter of 100 billion. Let's take this into context. This year's balance of state funds is 320 billion. Four out of 100 billion is a drop in that ocean. This doesn't help a collection of state funds. Let's take a look at this from the people who could invest in the bank. In this regard, salesmen speak of opening up the public's entrance into the stock market, when, of course, it is true that only a small part of the public is able to participate in risky business through large sums of stock markets. But consider the more than 200 families, which are 0.1% of the wealthiest in the country. That people had 282 billion by the end of 2019 C.E. It could buy the whole of Iceland banks twice and well, make it easy on you. Thus, it would be 0.1% potentially more rich in 2025, 2029, and long future. Let's also consider this in terms of government income and not government income due to Covid-19 or the crisis we're going through. No, considering this in the context of the fact that taxation this year is 34 billion lower than it would have been if it hadn't brought down a tax down that the government has attacked during this terms. The number of tax reductions is very much the wealthiest of the people in the world who are back on their way to buying banks. The money possibly acquired by a quarter share in Iceland's bank would be the same on the pair with the payload the government chose to place on the state funds. So it can't be a matter of saving state funds. But there is, of course, all this uncertainty that the government wants less to talk about, and of course it is about just how vague it is about everything that touches this subject. Which one should sell 25% or less or more? Secretary of finance said it depends on the mood. It'll just be seen. Whether it is 20% or 30% or 35%, it is likely to be a dominant factor. If this is to be a few hands, this will be the thing that can have a crucial impact on Iceland's policy, especially when you see the state fund entering as a shareholder in such an enterprise. We have seen it in recent years. I don't mean to say that the state is necessarily a quiet owner, but the state is a rather quiet owner when it comes to managing financial institutions. The arm length often lasts longer than it had to be. And it's going to matter a lot about Iceland Bank in the next few years when a loan for travel comes on due days, when the bank has to decide if he's going to stand up for his social work or if he's going to maximise his survival. The government's not supposed to do bank business, called the minister of finance earlier today. This is the natural principle, this is the dogma on which this discussion is based from one side. The minister of finance also seemed to be a little shocked that some simply felt that the State had a role as a leading force and one of the larger financial owners of the country. If there is a fundamental difference between people, I'm just going to point out that if people don't believe that the State has a role as a leading force in a financial market, in the few commercial markets that are, where there's a continuing market failure, only sorries, people have no business at all to advise on what the State should do. For the State to go in the right direction, it is the basic role of an Icelandic financial market. Then perhaps we've reached the main point. Because the discussion here is so much about the billions that Madame in Hamburg is about to give to the bank, and it's almost contempt - I think that's the only word I have for the tone that came from the highest level. Secretary of the budget, we're going to give you a heads-up. paritaprevir This day's Oddný Harðardóttir, she put up with the idea that there should be only a community bank in a Icelandic financial market that was not about to maximise profit, but to promote green investments, to protect the people of the country. That's when they said the highest. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President, that we would then have to decide how many billions of dollars to set aside to establish this fantasy bank that did nothing but engage in such a relatively unsatisfactory operation. Who decided that interest was something to maximise, and that was number one, two and three, and everything else, in running a community? The financial system is one of the motors under this community. I'm just going to state that I deeply agree with that vision. Minister Bjarni son of Benediktsson said that the state of dreams was a bank that practiced relatively irreparable activities on the scale of financial resources. It is a business that we will need to expand in the years ahead. It's a golden opportunity; to build up in Iceland, or what we call it, banks that serve the public and organize them to work for the future, to take these two big banks of the state, and to sign them together, so that the state will be left behind with the people and the green investment and what will be built up here for the future. Risk investments and whatever else there is left in these banks, there's nothing private about private choice like there's no tomorrow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have no regrets about them. But to privatize banks in one piece without having gone through the basic work we need to reorganize the financial system, not just by law and rules, but by the input of banks while we have them in our hands, it would be delirium. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u134	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u135	V.E.G. President. It has been very interesting to listen to this discussion all day and to hear a lot of people in the government stand talking about the fact that it's all right to sell, but just not right now. So when you look at the talks, of course, the real attitude of most of these senators is revealed, which is that they want the state to own the banks and most of the other companies. It is good to review to those who listen to how this special property came into existence. It's like some people think it's a bank we've built up, some kind of family business. But it wasn't. The part of Iceland Bank is a payment that we got out of contracts with broils. It's a payment that's now being thought of turning into money. It's as simple as that. The question, then, is just that and really a question: Is now the right time to sell? It has been said in the discussion that for some, time is never the right time. It is never the time to break this property free and turn it into money that could be more useful to us in the present situation, rather than having such a heavy share in this kind of business. The question, of course, is, Why are we going to sell? Why do we think it's wise to sell something in Iceland Bank? Clearly, there is a risk that taxpayers are bound with hundreds of billions of their possessions in banking. That's a big risk. We often talk about, when we speak here for our own business, looking to the neighboring countries and listening to what experts say, but now it's somehow an absolute detail. There is no other free nation in Western communities, with virtually every banking business in the country in its own hands. [[Up front.]] - No, you're wrong. There is no Western free nation with it, no one can think of it. [[Taken up in: Belgium and the Netherlands.]] - That's not true. The proportion of the state of finance in these countries is very low, and no one is supposed to run two - thirds of all financial activity in the country. There's nothing known except in entirely special countries, and I'm not going to go into the details of what kind of politics is being fired there and what sort of communities they are. We too are very busy, especially those who speak against this sale, of the scattered property and competitiveities, but that is not necessary when the State is concerned. Then shall no man speak of the inheritance that is scattered: it shall not be of any matter. A contest? No. The SEC has pointed out that this is a very unhealthy system in business banks. It is very unhealthy for one person, whether it is the State or anyone else, to have such a dominant part in the whole system. The present situation is a very abnormal possession, an abnormal competition, and this, of course, is not to be known. We are to contribute to a long - term variety of healthy and distributed property. Of course, we can talk forever about when the right time is. In answer to earlier, I said that the debate between sides of the government was like that of the man who always planned to sell his apartment but never did because he was always waiting for the situation to be better and better worth it. Of course, this led to a collapse of property. It's the same danger here. However, there is no denying that there is considerable suspicion in society, especially because some politicians have actually sown seeds of suspicion and are now in confusion that there is even more suspicion, the privatization of the bank, which was quite another example right here at the turn of the century, in which banks of the state. True, they were completely unprofitable, useless banks that were unable to care for their jobs, but let them lie in one place or another. The environment is completely different now. It's just a group that's supposed to be on the market. Then the question is, Do we get an appropriate price or do we not get it? If we don't get the price we feel normal, he won't be sold. But this suspicion is sown, and then the language comes through a cow and a golden goose. A trade of traditional bank functions is too small and really too small for the valuables and property of these banks. The government is not the right person for this competition, and it is dangerous that we are thus binding money. It's like a dairy cow, and I'm sure it won't be any more of a milk cow or a golden goose than a camp loan set up here, which has already cost us about a year. 60 billion dollars on expenses from the taxpayers, this fabulous bank of ours, a community bank, we can call it. The situation is that we probably owe 180 billion more than a property value in that bank. Thus, we know what will eventually happen to us. I'm not going on this road again if I can't help it. But this does not change the fact that we have to convince the public that this is unwise, that it is an abnormal environment. But I understand the suspicion, it's natural in many ways. It is so easy for us to say: Yes, it is a payment. We'll just keep doing this. If this happens later, there will be others who pay more than we do. I also heard it here during the discussion that men think there's a lot of extras to cash in this situation, which I find completely incomprehensible, because we are now in debt very much and can use it for a much more profitable investment. They always say, "We can only borrow, we just borrow, they're on low interest, we can only raise the government's expenses, always. " It's no problem to raise the government's expenses. We feel that it is such a small matter because there are future generations that will pay. We always think about ourselves right now, but we need to think further. Really, it is absurd to own all these valuables in a business venture. The treasure is never meant to be, and that does not make it any other government treasure in the way we do. We should look to other countries and the experts we are so informed about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u136	Madam President. I'd like to talk about the uncertainty of this whole matter. You see, there is an uncomfortable lot of uncertainty that prevails around this proposed process in the company of the left movement, the independent party, and the forwarding party. If we start with why we're in the process now, the reasons for this are completely obscured and unsure. In fact, the uncertainty is found in the financial support of why it is good to engage in sales for the State today. The fact that there is evidence in a government contract is simply not an adequate excuse for the public, Madam President. If someone thinks that an increase in markets is sufficient, as indicated in the bank office's memorandum with the proposal of a financial minister to sell the state's ownership of Iceland Bank, I'd like to point out what others have pointed out in today's discussion, that this huge increase in markets since March, when the highest market is at the time. As a result of a tremendous decrease in market markets between February and March, the secretary of finance excluded the government's share in Iceland's bank until December. So, yes, of course, markets followed the extremely large dive, but there is not enough reason for this road to be attacked. It is also vague and uncertain about what project is planned to use the funds available for the sale of the bank's share. Should money be used to pay off debt or to finance infrastructure? No clear answers on this point have been made in the case of the highest court. Secretary of finance, his memo, or the case of other government ministers on what the government's will is for. It is very unusual for any handling of the funds to be obtained for the sale. In this context, it can be noted that if the plan is to pay off the debt of state funds, which I would expect not to be a priority at a time of the greatest unemployment we have experienced for decades, it is important that government debt has continued to decrease. So the benefits of selling banks and paying off debts are even lower. Thus, the government's missing out on sales may be higher than government interest, which does not have to pay if it uses the value to cover debt. This has even been true. Dr. Gylfi Magnússon, professor of economics and former economic and commercial minister, said. In order to improve uncertainty, there is uncertainty about how much to sell. No clear answer has been obtained from government leaders on how much part of the government in the bank they intend to sell. Furthermore, no clear answers or suggestions on which price is acceptable to the object have been identified. In fact, the bank office's memorandum with proposal for financial ministers is expected to cancel the sale if there is no acceptable sale or acceptable interest. Each acceptable sale price is completely obscured. There's no clear lines here, Madam President, and there's no clear explanation for the government's going to this expedition now. There is also much else that is lacking. There was a lack of ability to form a number of things in the transmission address of the highest. Secretary of finance here today. He spoke of the market as healthy. To say here to us, the ideal public representative, that the market is healthy in these times that we live is simply remarkable. Economic uncertainty in this country and all around us has never been so great, never has. The economic uncertainty of Covid is at its height, not just here, but in our major business countries. There is no evidence that the neighboring economy will soon straighten out the cow. Sadly, the rapid restoration of tourism in this country is out of sight, and there is likely a search for a financial minister on both sides of the Atlantic that speaks in a way that the Icelandic did today when he declared that the market was healthy. To say that there is evidence to support the sale of the State now is at best an outback. Let me point out to the secretary of finance that no other government funds, no other governments around us, in our neighboring countries, have been selling their parts in financial institutions, or in public funds, the extraordinary economic conditions that exist. In fact, the bank office's memorandum acknowledges that in Europe there are very few examples of sales or unity on banks at this time. Like what? paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson tore them up with banks on government property in Belgium, in the Netherlands, Ireland, and Norway, and none of the governments of these countries are preparing their share in that bank. Madam President. All this uncertainty is bad. It is painful to set out on a crusade that continues to be guided by the ideology of one political party rather than by the interests of the common people. This must take place a discussion, a profound discussion of society's financial system for the future. This is where the banking system has to be organized by public interest. The uncertainty that now exists simply does not require selling the bank because both of us are not sure what to sell for the object that is to be sold, which is also in doubt, and not how we will become, and it matters. It's important that we know in advance when this discussion is run through the council, that we know what the government's ideas are about possession. But I'm afraid they haven't shown up, Madam President. There is a lack of vision for the future that I miss so much in all this discussion. There is a lack of a vision of the structure of the financial system that must have to deal with the future challenges we all face in the wake of a pandemic. These are the biggest challenges we have to face, and in this case we must want the huge profits that have come from Iceland banks in recent years rather than selling our share in the bank at a time when it is expected that the object will be low and there will be very little uncertainty around all the trade process, which potential owners will be, and what possible owners will think of a provision for that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u137	Madam President. We're here to discuss a report of the highest order. Economic and commercial secretary for sale of the government in Iceland Bank. Here, before this day, much earlier during our discussion, a spokesman spoke our council in the left, green, or sharp. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, and went into detail over our vision and traced our course to this matter. I'm not going to repeat it all tonight, but there are a few things I would like to go back to the conversation that I really care about. First of all, I'd like to say that the operation we're discussing here, i.e. to sell approximately Twenty-five percent of the government's share at Iceland Bank is in line with our VG policy, which emphasizes that the state will remain the owner of the Bank of America. It's totally in the shape of that policy. In fact, we also place the same emphasis on the exchange between the bank's business and its investment activities. The Economic and Business Committee has a bill on this issue and I expect it to be all that's going to happen here at the council in the next few days. Then this case is also in harmony with what is stated in the Government Treaty, where the government is about to review the establishment of the state in Iceland in financial companies as the most extensive in Europe and that the government is going to look for ways to reduce it. It also says that it is clear, though, that government funds will remain leading investors in at least one systematicly important financial agency. I think it's important to go over this, because there's been a little talk here, as this decision may be very soon. This decision is part of a course that has been built and included based on a white book on the financial system published here for several years. This is important in the discussion because it is part of a process that has been discussed so far. Whether to sell banks is the right time has been discussed today. I don't think we'll know until we put it to the test by checking the stock market bank and seeing if there's a certain will in investors, as we think, to buy this bank. If we think the price of paying is not acceptable, is not good enough, then the course of course needs to be changed. You can cancel, and it has been said that if the price we consider to be an Icelandic community is not worth the sale. However, I find it very normal that there are many people in this discussion, that there are discussions about this in society, and that people ask questions and ponder over this process. As a nation, we are, of course, burned off history. Happily, though, we too have learned from her and have set up a setting that is completely different, the legal structure around our financial system has become quite different from that of a collapse. The law on the sale of the financial property of the state includes The role of the Bank Office, founded to create more gaps from politics. It stipulates that a minister should submit a report to both the Parliament's budget and the Economic and Business Committee, which includes the Commission's work. in connection with this matter and the highest. The secretary of the budget is reporting to the council today; we are discussing this as soon as the issues are discussed in these committees of the council. The report also shows that Iceland's Secret Bank should be given reviews, and further details are made on the board of Ministers on state funds before making the final decision for sale. Madam President. I believe this is going on with a case that is well structured not only on how the financial system has been strengthened but also on how to work with white books and work written in the Treaty. I believe now we are at that point that it should be tried to sell about Twenty-five percent of the government's share in Iceland Bank. I'm celebrating the discussion here today, I think it's good, and I think it's important to us. It is an important part of continuing to reduce the financial possession of the State. At the same time, I also want us to continue developing and deepening our discussion about the bank we're about to have owned by the government and how we want it to work for the future. It may not be quite the next verse in this process, but I think that is one of the things we should talk about at the same time and continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u138	Madam President. Hv. A senator has studied the matter in his own way, pointing to the direction of the left green and the speech of the right. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son earlier tonight, as he drew up a very clear metaphor. He asked: "Is there any reason why a driver who has gone down a rocky old path and driven into a ditch would never drive again, even though the road has been built all over and even a malaria? I'm just saying, it's not something, of course, but if the same guys are sitting under the wheel, driving their lights out in a box of coal and crazy parties in the back seat, I say no. There's no need to be hasty. I'm asking why. A senator: What's the hurry? What's with all this panic now at the 11th hour before the election? We enjoy a time of complete uncertainty in social matters, in economic terms, as well as in many others. Is it really the senator's conviction that selling a stock in Iceland's Bank is such a top priority that there is no reason to stop and be reasonable? I am referring, not to some economic school or theory, but to common sense. Is this phrase really a reason to wear it? Doesn't a senator think that he should stop very little and just take a deep breath?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u139	Madam President. Because of the illustration. paritaprevir And there was the son of Brukun, who was there, quoting a word. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son about whether to drive the same trail again when he had been put in experience, it is such an important part of the illustration that it is of little importance whether the path has been fixed, has done something with it, and makes it more challenging. I reviewed in my speech that it has been done just that. The law on the sales of the financial property of the State was written in a process that has taken care of in a number of ways. Much has been done to change the bank setting. I think there's a basic element in these matters. We're not running the same old path, we're running on a new road and we're changing the road. That's why I think that's not only acceptable but completely thirsty. I also learned in my speech that this was part of a process that would have been in progress since the establishment of the government. I simply don't agree that there's a hurry here. There's been a review of which routes to go. There's been a loss of ideas. That's exactly what they're supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] They're looking for the best route. That's what I think we're doing here in a very careful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u140	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I will not belittle the change in circumstances. She's stronger. That doesn't make any difference because if the drivers are the same people, it doesn't matter and it's as good as setting the closing bar. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to what she feels is acceptable to an offer. Where's the floor in your mind in the left green? Or is it of no importance? Is this part of any agreement between the members of the board that this will go through, against any other part of the left-left green being exposed to brighter light? Do we have a horse shop going on? I would also like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Does the senator count this as a sign of an unhealthy society that decides to share largely in the banking system for a longer or shorter time? Is there something unhealthy about that? I would like to stress that it is our policy in the United States that the state should not have the banking system in its hands, but we are to have a substantial share in at least one bank. Regarding the properties referred to, i.e. 25% and 35% came up today: where put the left green heels down? What if, in the opinion of the groups of fellow workers, there is an offer of some rage that may be 40 to50%, or 49%? [[The president calls.]] Where do you put it? Housemen down?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u141	Madam President. Fortunately, we have legislation that should be able to stand, no matter what it is, exactly in charge of the jury, i.e. unless you have a specific discussion at the General Assembly to change your legislation. It has the highest. The secretary of finance is not being made in this discussion. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson did not come to set. If we want to proceed with the driver's corpse, I think I'd have to point out that it's really the banking business that's taking a pretty big part in being in the driver's seat. Hv. A senator asks if there is anything unhealthy about the State's involvement in the bank. No, but so, at least not in my opinion and not in my movement. So I want to reiterate what I said here in my speech that it is in the direction of the left movement that we want to own the Bank of the Lands. Therefore, it is in complete harmony with our policy to reduce the property of the state of Iceland banking. [[The president calls.]] It's no use trying to rock the water with it. [[The president calls.]] That's part of our policy. It's just an episode with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u142	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u143	Madam President. Hv. A senator did well over the left green policy on the importance of selling banks and putting Iceland banks in the hands of private people, and it sounds like you're talking to me. A senator believes that this time is extremely good. I thought why. A senator will not answer. paritaprevir When Brjánsson asked about this time, he had enough to do so. I want to pray. A senator about going over it with us because he thinks it's a good time to sell a bank when we're in the deepest economic crisis for 100 years, and there's a lot of uncertainty in the community. There's a lot of uncertainty about the business. There's a lot of uncertainty about the bank's loan collection. Official figures say 20%, but reports from the bank say that there are more than 10% in cryo-consuming, about 100 billion, and it is not known what will happen, but the companies that have requested the cryo-conservation, most of which are tourism companies out of the country, rely on making deals with their business bank after the epidemic has passed. Why do you think so? This is a good time for a senator to sell a bank? Did she disagree when the Bank Office suggested postponing the sales process because there was great uncertainty in March? What Has Changed? Why is this a good time? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Senator, time for everything, but this time not good for bank sales?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u144	Mr. President. I don't think I said in my speech that the timing was extraordinary. However, I said that selling the share of the government in Iceland Bank was part of a process that even had. written into the Constitution, and we are in my opinion in this process today. It just so happens that there is always some time. I don't think we know exactly if our timing is good until we're actually getting farther into the trade process, when we know more about the interest in buying the bank. If the conclusion becomes that we don't feel that it's acceptable for Icelandic society, we stop. Then we come to the conclusion that our timing is not good. But what I'm stressing is that we're just in a process that this government decided to go on and that's why it's a normal part of that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u145	Madam President. It was good to get out of bed. paritaprevir Left movement ◯ Green supply. It was written in the Treaty of the Treaty in the fall of 2017 that there should be sold or found ways to reduce, I can't exactly remember the wording, it's not about selling, it's reducing the property part, and because it's in the Treaty, it must be started before the season ends. I get it. A senator right? This is a process to start because it was written 2017 into the Constitution, and it must be completed before the next election is due. Or what? Who else in the United States could think of selling banks in government interest, selling banks under these uncertainty conditions? There's something else, Madam President, but the interests of the public at the front because all the evidence points to the fact that in this uncertainty situation we are supposed to wait for the sale. We're supposed to wait for the sale. We don't need the money, and if we're setting up the bill, we're going to take a loan to go to the city line or whatever it is we want to pay with this money, or we're going to sell it? Then it is a simple arithmetic. Taking the loan is far more beneficial than selling the item. We are not supposed to sell shares at a bank that pays off loans, e.g. which has negative physical growth. [[The president calls.]] It's just crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u146	Mr. President. It's just that there's a lot of conflicting opinions about it. True, there have been voices that today is not a good time to sell banks. However, there are also others who point out that this may be a very good time to do so. I don't think we can figure it out until we get out of here and give it a shot. It is in all the contexts that I spoke about in my speech that I think are so important that we have a good law frame that tells us exactly how to do this. There is nothing surprising about the fact that governments and classes it supports continue with the actions it has taken, when everything in the process of it is only fine. And like I've done so many things here tonight, and some pretty bad things. Senators have also done today, but we are setting the criteria for the type of setting where we need to be in order for us to take this trade all the way. So far, all I've seen is that we're only very good, but we're also very careful. In my opinion, that is the only right way to do this; to be cautious but to continue on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u147	A respectable president. Should we sell banks just to sell banks, or should we have banks just to own banks? The question has been asked quite often from this speaker today as we present a verbal financial and economic report on the sale of the State of Iceland banking. The past few days, the World Health and Economic and Business Committee has worked out a statement to the secretary of finance and economics on a report on the provision of sales programs for parts of the state of Iceland. The minister requested the reviews of the committee and that they would lie down no later than January 20, 2021. Over the past few days, therefore, these committees have worked hard to examine the report and look for comments on what it says. It'll be interesting to see that coverage, but I haven't been involved in any of the committees' work. For the Committees, the financial and economic secretary's work on the proposed sales management of the parts of the state of Iceland is in accordance with the law on such sales. In other words, a predetermined process is carried out. The report on the topic reviews the main objectives of the sale of the property part, the method to be used and how it will be performed otherwise. At the same time, it has been requested for formal reviews from Iceland's Secret Bank on Equal Opportunities, the likely impact of sales on currency markets, currency stores, and available traffic funds. After the reviews of the International Parliament and the Council Bank of Iceland, the final decision will be made to determine whether the sale of the property part will be initiated according to the content of the report. The secretary of this decision can make changes to the individual components of the proposed sale therapy, including taking into account the comments made by the Directorates and the WHO and Business Committee at the report. The decision can then be revised by a minister at a different level of the process. What I'm saying in these words is that the decision is not made here at the Council, but we should, of course, discuss it here as we have done today. True, evidence has proved true both in favor of the sale. I see evidence that supports this sale, including... To the possession of the Icelandic government in financial institutions is relative to all the countries we generally compare with. It is also very important to consider that the work environment of the financial system is in no way comparable to what it was ten years ago, let alone fifteen years ago. There have been major changes in the work environment of the bank, both international and national. I'd like to review here that one of the biggest surprises I had in my work at a financial and business committee in 2013-2016 was how much was actually turning into a law and order of international work, which involved strengthening all the rules involved in the working environment of the bank, including: To make sure it was comparable between countries. This has been made clear in our discussion today, and I completely agree that in all the recent developments regarding sale of this property, it is crucial to the spread of transparency, possession of the object, and the continuation of the General Assembly as the project presents itself. I'd like to get to it, like coo. paritaprevir In the past, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson made the discussion of a community bank far from leaving us. We candidates want to keep it in our policy list that there are opportunities to wonder if the Lands Bank can become a community bank and that it is important to consider the benefits and shortcomings of its survival. As we know, the advance team has had it on its policy list for some time. In order to quote from the 2018 state council, the Party believes that one of the bank should remain in the nation's possession with the goal of serving the community to the best of its own. For one thing, to respond to a few games at a bank market, a community bank must have the purpose of offering services in the best possible way. In this way, the national banking service could be promoted by competition. Perhaps we should use this opportunity now and start work to further analyze the role that we want a government bank to play in our community. A respectable president. I believe this is done wisely, since one step is taken at a time, looking ahead of the stage, viewing between the steps taken, including the steps taken. because plans for sale have been ahead of time, and the warrant for sale has also been available for several years and has been continuously considered. Finally, a respectable president: Is it more reasonable to build up the wood of the country or to pay off debt than to bind the money of the state in the bank, especially when there are two banks in the state? Those who want to do business with the bank can continue to return to the Lands Bank. Of course, we should not forget that there is business with the savings that work in some territories around the country. Of course, it is also important to consider what role they can play in the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u148	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she feels uncomfortable in this situation, not to be taken deeper in the years, how suspicious she is in the community about bank sales during this uncertainty period. In fact, during the past three years, although no pandemic has been on the move, it has been shown that more than 60% of those surveyed put their best trust in running this bank, while less than 20% wanted to sell things. These are the tests made before the pandemic date. The website's newsletter is now a new poll asking how well people trust the highest quality. Secretary of the budget to lead this deal. The conclusion is that 63% of his lack of trust in this, only 23%, is well - founded. I think it's a sign of how the public sees what's going on here. I think the uncertainty and the situation of both economy and employment are contributing to this suspicion and distrust when governments and governments want to wade into this trade in uncertain times. I want to pray. A senator to say his opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u149	A respectable president. Yes, I have some concerns. A senator of this. In fact, I don't think that either the board or we at the General Assembly have been able to explain what has changed into the working environment of banks in the past ten years and why it is wise to look at this route now, to free the property of the state of other banks, i.e. In Iceland Bank. But I think it's very important to draw out the facts. Therefore, this discussion here today is of great importance, resulting in a completely different situation, both in the work environment of the banks and in all the regular work being put on by banks today, which were 10 to 15 years ago. But I don't know the best people in this area, so I'm inclined to explain this, but I think the government's office should do a certain job in this area, because it's actually very specific in detail, but it can be explained so that everyone understands the difference. Of course, it is part of this process to build confidence in the process ahead, that there is much transparency in each step and that it is discussed; that it is discussed here at the General Assembly, in the media, and in the community all, as has actually been done in the past two weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u150	Madam President. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if she thinks there is enough transparency in this process. Of course, we have the 2012 law that says what steps to take, but we don't even know what to sell in the bank, and we don't know what to do with an acceptable price. And yet, those in charge have come up here after each other in a speech chair today and they say, "Well, we'll stop if we can't get an acceptable price. What is an acceptable price? And who is it that can cancel? Congress cannot stop this sale. It's only a financial and economic minister that can do that. So the trust in him must be great among the rulers in this entire process. But, hey. A senator spoke of the discussion of a community bank not leaving us. But is it not a chance to leave us if we have begun selling a piece of the other bank when we could have held both places and divided them into banks of society and other parts of them as an investment? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator answers. First, I'd like to say that the opportunity for discussion and analysis of the role we want to have a community bank or a government bank is by no means leaving us while we own the Bank of the Lands. Perhaps the opportunity for this discussion will be further increased once we have released property in Iceland banking. Of course, in all the progress ahead, the report under the committees is very important to consider that there are certain steps that must be taken to determine what is acceptable prices and, in fact, how much will be sold in the end. But if I get it right, it can be up to 25%. [[The point is: It's the minimum.]] - Yeah. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, but that's one of the things the Economic and Business Committee's been doing on the last few days, if I get it right, whether or not it should be framed better. But there will be more details in the coming process, which is quite well defined.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u152	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the report she gave. I'd like to ask a few questions about the reasons she made in an effort to sell things out of our financial system at this critical point when, as we have seen, many times, uncertainty times are completely dominant, uncertainty times that we haven't experienced for 100 years, and we know what social changes lie ahead. I'm asking why. A member of the council on which she sees evidence of selling these valuable assets out of society's estate at that time. We know that some of the reasoning is a competition for banking. It is the stated manpower we've heard here today, and men have gone a lot, especially in one of the groups of cooperation. What real evidence is there of this, logic? Now I want men to hang themselves, not for some economic school, but for pure sense. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son spoke here with a grin on his face tonight of the expression "gold goose " and" milk cow. " True, these are institutions that have brought us our income and will continue to do so, how much we do not know. In case of a moment. A senator could slightly deepen this factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón child of Brjánsson son answers. After listening to the discussion here today, I completely agree that time is important, but I have not realized it in this discussion why it can be said that this time is always better or worse than any other time point. It is part of the process that is now ahead of us to find out if this is a good time. There are many evidences that this may be a good time, and it has been published by the Committee of the Last Days. It's the development of a stock market. At this point, increasing the number of investments may be important. Of course, it is important to be able to reduce debt at this point and reduce the burden of growth. Of course, government officials always need to ask themselves if they are selling dairy cows for property. But I've never understood why a financial company should be paying public money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u154	Mr. President. I'm just saying like a practical housewife: it's no matter where good comes from. Is it not good that financial institutions as well as other institutions will give the rich to the public? We spend the rest of our days, picking up ways to earn money in order to live up to the great and good service we perform. But I didn't feel that I had a clear answer. A senator on this matter: Does it seem reasonable for her to sell valuable banking agencies out of our community at this critical point, during this uncertainty period? We know exactly what happened during the last privatization process, which was ornamental, and the progress team's fingerprints are on it. Of course, the pot and pan were the Independence Party. That adventure ended with pure adventurerism on a global scale. Only to deepen what I asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u155	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. As I thought I'd answered here in the previous year, I think it would be wise to test at this point to see if this property can be released in Iceland's bank. Regarding the fact that no matter where income comes from, I don't agree with it, and if I refer to the policy of the Social Bank, it can be very important that financial institutions in the community, which have an underlying viewpoint. This can be done to support employment, e.g. in times such as we now experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u156	V.E.G. President. I noticed why. In his talk earlier, a senator said that the bank has advantages and advantages. It was short - case, but I wasn't aware of who were the negatives. I can't see them. I wondered if it's the same ideologies that have been observed in the Syndicate, that should not be sold in times of uncertainty. Is it better to have this treasure than to have anyone else if it's an uncertain period? Or are we talking about the trouble that this is some golden goose or milk cows, as some have talked about here? First, the payments we have received from these banks are not large in terms of the value of the item. Of course, they have been, not of conventional bank functions, but of various segregatory operations surrounding bank executions. So we haven't had that experience with government banking. It is not as if we just started, we ran three large bank banks that never returned any money to the state, but we had considerable expenses from that bank's taxpayers. We had a bank that we call a camp loan fund that has cost us a fortune and has not yet seen how much it will cost the taxpayers, probably about 250 billion. So I see no advantage in the fact that the state has so much in the banking system. There are no other nations with this. This is not wise in any way with regard to risks. If things go wrong, it's even worse that the state has all these things in its arms than others do, although, of course, it will always be harmed to a trust fund if the banking system goes bad. But we don't have to increase it. So I'm just asking, "Do you see any trouble, boy?" Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u157	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. My speech may have led me to the point that the pros and cons of the discussion had been given today. The disadvantage, or perhaps the greatest challenge, is suspicion in the community. It is important to present with informed discussion, such as the one presented here and with instruction by governments who are expected to be involved in informing about the legal and order that has taken place at the General Assembly in the last ten years. Of course, there's the biggest harm. Then, of course, the sale has to be followed by a small analysis of the budget. It is not wise for the state to run banks to earn money. Of course, it may be wise if we are talking about community banks, that the state runs banks to ensure that people can get a roof over their heads, that jobs have access to financial resources, that society can make more money. It can hardly be and should be the goal of the State to earn money.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u158	V.E.G. President. I'm going to do what's best. I'm sure the president has been pleased to be standing here in the hatch, thanking you for the answer. You see, that was a very good answer. Senator. The point is, it is a suspicion. That's the problem we're dealing with. Of course, the same suspicion has already taken place. We are in a completely different environment today than we were in 2000. I have said in myself nothing would have been better if the banks had been owned by the State when the bank failed in 2008. But people add these things together, and that makes them suspicious today. We now need to convince the public that we are talking about other things. We're talking about a stock that we got paid from an agreement with a scrap farm and we're just turning this share into money. That's what we're doing. And in a good foreign land: we are becoming ◯realisma to this property. All of a sudden, the debate is just that it's not the right time, it's uncertainty times, and we don't know what is an acceptable price. [[The president calls.]] We know exactly what the value is, and then we know what is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u159	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson for highlighting these points. This is where we make valuables from what we got out of fragments after the last crash, make valuables for society, cash it in. [[Up front.]] Yes, the good deal. But I might want to reiterate what I said in the previous talk, that what surprised me most in the work that I did during the season of 2013-2016 was this vast task, in effect, in cooperation with the international community, to create a new framework for the financial systems of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u160	A respectable president. It has taken all day and late into the night to find out what was being said. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. It is about trust and smiles in that subject over the years. That's the point. It's in there. Why would it not have been necessary to spend all this time asking the same practitioners that here you would come after asking about the same things? But I will begin my speech, a respectable president - in the introduction of the Government Treaty, says, by permission of the president: ▪ Long-term stability and increased transparency in activities and administration are needed to strengthen public confidence in business management, financial life, politics, and community institutions. Since the collapse of the economy, there have been many successes but still lacks the social reconciliation that the nation has long called on. She has work to do. At the same time, rapid social change and a changed view of society is needed in many areas but also global turmoil. A section on the Council's promotion states: ▪ There is no need to rule the financial system for the future. A White Book on a vision of the financial system in Iceland will be submitted to the Council for review before policy decisions will be made on the financial system. A respectable president. This can be pointed to the wording ▪ before policy making is taken into account. We're here to discuss a sale planned for the part of Iceland Bank, which is on state property because it landed in the arms of the State after the collapse. The last year has been a shock to the nation as well as to the entire inhabited earth. A global epidemic has dejected over us and for the nation's largest industry in an instant. I'm sure it's been absolute. The lack of employment is historically high, and it can be said that we are still in the middle of the world. Undeniably, events over the past year have caused anxiety over the future. That uncertainty and worry still hangs over us and even when a pandemic is over, it is clear that many people will be hurt. The Covid-19 pandemic will come to leave the ground exposed. For these reasons, it is obvious that the Icelandic nation does not need any more tragedy at this time. So there is nothing unnatural, no strange, and no wonder that people ask questions about the subject that we are discussing here tonight. It is not unusual for people to be shocked because even the plans for the release of the government's property are written in the government's government contract, so that the nation has been forced to think of all the other things, and no doubt, a respectable president, are few who have the government contract on the nightstand for evening readings. It should not be surprising, then, that this discussion is with the first one that takes place after one month of the holiday season. And it's just that there's an intellectual connection between bank sales and recent developments in Iceland's history. When it comes to this idea of sales on state property, it is not unusual for humans to have problems with their possessions. The track's starting to scare. The pay matter comes to mind. The sales of the Simanum, et cetera, the companies sold from a bank as the Icelandic State owns; financial agreements that went in different ways. The situation is that trust is broken. In fact, tragic losses have been reported in the economic system, and the consequences have been devastating for many individuals and families in the country. So asking is too natural. What has changed in the meantime? It is too natural to ask: Has it been summed up what has changed? Can we just see why the situation is different but it was more than a decade ago? Why is it safer for the nation to be attacked now than then? What's changed, what's been fixed? Government officials have come up tonight and told us that the things that led to such a deep and serious shock could have occurred, as was true in the financial collapse. In view of the modern crown crisis, it is reasonable to ask, "Is it possible to have some kind of smile about the white book? " It is reasonable to ask that question. The same is true of the White Book and the Mosaic Law covenant; there are no doubt few who wear it on the night table. A respectable president. Let us assume that the vast hold on financial affairs is not good. Let us make it our aim to obtain an inheritance in some way is a reasonable approach and responsibility. Then, too, there must be more than just the fact that money companies are not a good idea for deciding to sell. It is obvious that what takes over, the arrangement, must be better than the arrangement that the state is running to make complete Iceland banking. It must be as important that the object in question goes to the person who is better off than the State to take it away. It can't be exactly where the object goes. This discussion needs to be discussed. Here, several political leaders have talked about the ideologies and political bitch in these matters and have other opinions; the mention that people have political princes who will not be manipulated, so that they are standing here and a machine that this is not a good idea or ask questions as to whether they are in the middle of a crisis, in the middle of a pandemic, is the right time to sell this thing; makes men believe that the only thing is the outside, is the opinion of these people, and that there would be no profit. But, really, people have come up here and called for information, called for answers, called on the basis that we are in the middle of a crisis, mid - pandemic, is a good time to sell the property of the state of Iceland. While executives say that people are trying to do something suspicious by asking, by doing their job, by asking questions, to those who represent the public, it's no wonder that the conversation does not get very far. This reaction to the discussion and to the comments of the people suggests that the greater part may be, in fact, the greater part. not to practice very active listening, for many who have spoken tonight and today, including Martyrs have pointedly said that they view it as a good idea that the state has a lot of banks, but they call for information. President. I could talk here a lot longer and I'd like to, but the time is running out, and I'd like to show the government that it's gone well in the Covid epidemic. The conversation with the nation has gone well. Why? Because most of our conversations with the nation and the council have been open and honest. Why is it not the same when it comes to the nation's financial system? Does that have anything less to do with the nation or the council? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u161	V.E.G. President. This may be similar to what other talks have been. Of course, the sale is being suspicious, it is always being done. Now there is so much question as to why the State cannot run it like others. I just want to point out that there was never any sign that the state owned an Iceland Bank. This bank was not founded by the government. The Kingdom did not share it, the State was not going to own that bank. Why, then, is selling this thing so complicated if an acceptable price is available? I don't understand these problems, these speculations, whether it's a good time, etc., and that there's some kind of process involved. It's just a thing you're going to come for a price. It never stood for us to have this bank. There was never a time for the state to stand here with two thirds of the entire banking system in her arms. Why should we not unite in this way to release this object? That is especially a good situation today. It's an investment requirement. There are lots of money on the road that needs an investment. It's a competitive matter that we don't have all of this. It's a risk to have these and so many other things. Then there are men who wonder about it, say we're burned by something. When in Iceland history did you get paid by banks? When have we benefited from this? Did we benefit from having the Bank of Lands and Space Bank in its own time and in all this bank? No, it was no good for us. But all of a sudden, people just feel like we're taking all the risk of it and they just keep it going. Let's get rid of this, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of Níelsson's son answers. It looks like it's a tough one again. A senator has given them the basis for the idea that banks are in possession and that the state should continue to own all this bank and hold a bank account. It's not. They were calling for information and grounds. I'll put it in very simple words: If the government wants to sell Iceland Bank, they'll have to sell it to the people and the council first that it's a good idea. They've lacked that kind of job, the conviction it takes to make it right, which sounds to me. It's a good thing to do things right, but that's a conversation that needs to be attacked. It may not be that a person is trying to find peace when he cannot answer such questions as how much to sell. The information is presented. Why are people so firm in their conviction that it's fine to do this now, they need to come up on the table. There's been a lot of talk about separation between investment and business banks over the years and, as a reminder, I have the highest. The minister of finance may not completely agree that it is a good idea in all respects. However, he has talked about a defensive line between risk investments and business banks. Where is it? Where is that work? This would minimize the risk of carrying out such an operation as the one we are discussing today. It's that kind of conversation I would have wanted us to have been able to do deep and deep.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u163	V.E.G. President. I know there's suspicion in the community, and I also listen to a lot of senators being that more and more suspicious. There was no requirement for the 2016 nation to own an Iceland bank. Why should it now be necessary to keep him? I don't understand. Of course, in 2002 or in some other environment, this suspicion can be ignored indefinitely, and it can be referred to as a result of the sale of the Icelandic bank banks. It had nothing to do with that crisis. These bad banks, on the other hand, created a government fund that kept earnings inaccessible until collapse. And then we were so smart that we put the biggest blow on the demands in these banks. I've often wondered, " What status would this treasure have been if we had this bank all along with its commitments? ' There's another discussion. It is also quite another matter whether we are talking about a community bank or something. We've had experience with government banks, and it's not good. If you're talking about an apartment loan bank being a community bank, just on safe loans and helping people make apartments, that bank's about that. cost us $250 billion. I say, let's just evaluate it. Do we get an acceptable price for this? Let's just get into this business. Then we'll just see. I don't feel that I need a long discussion about this if it's true, and it's not a question of speculation and suspicion, which I find to be very prominent in the discussion - I'm not trying to impress this particular incident. That is especially true of a senator. There have been reports of uncertainty, not receiving acceptable prices, etc. You'll see.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The coat of Níelsson's answers and thoughts. Yes, they were not asked for this bank; they were in the arms of the State at the time. But the situation is that they are on government property right now. That's the reality we're facing here today, now that we're talking about it. How that came about is actually another discussion. It's like this now. It's been worth a fortune for a government fund. It has been shown that if it were not, it would not be possible to sell it. Let's just stay in this discussion here. And even if this is what the State has made in some way, it is not entirely negative that it must immediately try to get rid of it, no matter what. It's okay to take it into the injury, and it's normal to do it in the middle of a pandemic, contracture, etc. It's just normal. You expect the government to do that, watching everything. That's what this discussion is about for me, which is about to end. I would have just wanted a deeper, more elaborate, more enlightened discussion with the council and the nation in the same way that has been done with the Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-18-44.u165	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna give a little final talk because it's getting late. I've been thinking a little bit of thinking about this discussion, and I feel that many senators have immediately begun to make this planned sale of the bank's share of the state's affairs very suspicious, trying to mix it with sales of state banks 20 years ago, in a completely different legal setting, in all other circumstances, in an attempt to sow suspicion in the public. I just want to reiterate it at the end that it never stood for the government to gain an Iceland bank. It was a payment, part of a government agreement with the ready for payment. This payment was in the form of shares in the bank. It never stood for the government to run that bank. Now we are going to turn this object into money, because we feel that it can benefit us better, especially in the present circumstances. Now there are circumstances to sell because of the need for investment. Of course, the pensions have a pocket full of money they need to come to work for, in some investments. It can also be expected that foreign investment funds and Icelanders themselves will be willing to use their savings to invest in this bank. Clearly, that situation exists in the community. We saw it by the invitation taking part in Ikelanda. People believe that this will be a front and a restoration of the economy, and it is very normal and very likely that there will be quite a variety of assets when the stocks are sold. However, I realize that there is suspicion in the community. Of course, some are just the opinion, and I totally understand if they think, that the state should own the country's major business, I don't talk about those who may be temporarily making money. However, it is not desirable for the State to be involved in this kind of risk management, to be the dominant authority in the competitive market at such high levels as the bank system. We know this environment is changing. We know that it has never been wise for the State to have a place in such a process of change, and it will certainly not be wise now. Others are far better equipped to pursue such competition in financial markets than in the financial budget. It is our job now to reduce suspicion among the public and to make it seem wise for all of us to do so, it is not preconceivable that we take risks like this with taxes on hundreds of billions of dollars. It's not a paradox to me. It may not disturb many because if things go wrong, they are the ones who pay, not the pay, but the next generation. But we can't allow ourselves to think like that, and I challenge the common people and everyone to take a good look at their sense of reason in this, instead of being trapped in old waves. Thank you.
