ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u1	Borist has received a letter from the financial and economic secretary asking for deadlines to give written answers to inquiries on the deck. 797, on the judgment of the payment of the camp loans, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Islechoff, and on the threshing floor. 868 on property in the city of Rhinenes, from Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u2	Mr. President. There is a very serious situation in the management of nurses in the country. There's a lot of uncertainty in the litigation of the group and the local nursing home. Instead of making a clear announcement as to how to handle the problem, the staff sent it. Healthcare Minister to have a report on the urgency of the procedure. The head of the welfare committee broke down when she told the problem and discussed it with the press. Controllers down. The management board also tries to cover the calls at the highest level. Minister of Justice due to Christmas Eve, to the chief of police, who was concerned with the supreme. The minister of finance, president of the Independence Party, would have been at a social gathering that violated the rules of Disease Control. Instead of facing problems and mistakes, directors have a sense of urgency. It's a piece to the wind. Congress officials to try to silence them. This is unacceptable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u3	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. It is natural to see a minister in a series of storms, both in the cases she spoke about earlier and more, using butter sheets, even resorting to advisers to kill cases in the form of the high political problem that she now has at this moment dozens of female employees and comments that may be presented by public agencies that are a great deal of accusation and need to be in the light of the day. A minister is more likely to try to solve this problem and come to talk with us here in the Hall than to focus on shooting the messengers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u4	Mr. President. This is of serious concern at a time when the Korean epidemic reduces the ability of the Parliament to maintain the routine. We now have experimental projects due to reduced hours of work, which still reduces meetings, and then the Commission comes up with another lock, or an attempt to do so. I'll tell you, this is an attempt to be silent. It is out of the way of Congress laws when the Ministry of Health makes it a matter of confidentiality to state what is going on at the council hearing. That's wrong, Mr. President. Civilization laws leave no doubt as to the fact that direct quotations are being made. If you're here trying on behalf of the government to restrain the government's opposition to its work so that it can't tell you about the work of committees then we can box up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u5	Mr. President. I must rise up and agree with the criticisms that have been made. Now, not just one committee, but two committees at the same time, it is being criticized that people form opinions and discuss those views out - of - date. That's not very positive. If people cannot take the information they have received from committees and discuss it from their own opinions, from their ideas, then the situation has become pretty bad. Then it is the purpose of having guests at meetings even gone. If we cannot have and form opinions and put them out of our minds, even the question is, Is the purpose of the council not gone? We must have this freedom of speech. We have to discuss what is going on at the council, and we must also be able to do so without the intervention of ministers or others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u6	A respectable president. I wondered a bit about this confidence in committees. I especially wonder how to confide in the public money, whether it is a local partner or a state. I'd feel it was my duty to report it if I knew it from outside the committee, but I can't say it if I have the same stories in the committee. Where's the limit? Are we not obliged to make question marks when talking about public money? Whether it's because of mistakes or something else, we must give information about it. It can't be true, I can't see in any way how to confide in it because it's our duty to monitor how public money is handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u7	Mr. President. The General has a surveillance role, and it must be handled firmly. It is the responsibility of all of us who are present at the council to ensure that the execution of the decisions made by the Council is carried out. That's what we're at even. to investigate the responsibilities of the committee. That's what we've been discussing. well - being committee, how has nursing care been managed, how has it been achieved with the funds established by the legislatures, the legislatures, the legislatures. Just then, a very serious letter was received to the head of a welfare committee that the Government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, suggested that 140 people, on the other side of the Western and Remote Islands, be laid off on the decision of nursing homes, under the control of BSA and HSU, the nursing homes that were involved in rural operations. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, knows about this. [[The president calls.]] It was warned that the government was not going to protect these women and non - Israelites. Rather, it was about to leave 140 people in these times. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u8	A respectable president. Of course, visitors who appear to the WHO committee need to be able to trust in the confidentiality of the words of those whom they converse with members of the committee. That confidentiality has not been broken, and it has not been found to be broken down, although the charges against such were quite loud from government officials in the media. In general, there is a stronger confidence here as to problems, but perhaps there is reason to do so. We are freshly reminded of the phone calls made by President Donald Trumpur of the United States by the director of election in one American state where he asked for votes. We read these calls for a team, word for word, all of the world. They did not remain faithful. In this regard, confidentiality calls by officials to their subordinates seem to be higher than did Donald Trump, U.S.A. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u9	A respectable president. It's very important, as shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Thorsson, son of Thor, that it be trusted, and that men can trust that what they say in committees will not be brought to public squares. Similarly, it is very important that members of the Parliament be able to carry out their own duties. The members of Parliament's sources and the material discussions discussed in meetings are abundant, and there is a long way between fulfilling these obligations and breaking our faith with visitors who may be present at meetings. I do not view this as an attack on the part of the government. It is, in fact, more important that committees can do their job, those who appear to the committee, often with sensitive information, be able to trust that they will not leak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u10	A respectable president. I agree with everything that has been presented by members of the government opposition. It is sad for democracy itself that the majority of the contributions have been made to try to influence the work of the councilmen of the government. Clearly, they are trying to draw attention to the important issues involved. How, too, is it going to be true that we, who are members of the World Congress, cannot discuss what is presented there? First of all, I do not view a clown as being broken over his head. Second, information about the common people was discussed. I find it sad for democracy itself, a respectable president, that the greater part is using it in this serious way in an effort to influence the activities of us who are represented here as members of the U.S. government. It's a matter of silence, and I suggest a president of the United States don't see it done here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u11	President. In an appeal from the president to the presidents and members of the Council of II, it is said that guests should be able to express themselves in an open, free manner and that it is not the role of members of the constant committees to repeat, let alone the interpretation, what visitors or other members of the committee may say. However, members of the Governing Body must be able to account for their attitude and attitude. Today, diplomats have been up and down in confidentiality. We need to be careful with that word. There is a definition of what confidentiality means to members of the Parliament. One is asked in advance with specific requests that have not been performed in any of the cases here, where trust is compromised. We need to be able to carry out our Christian responsibilities. And if visitors are to be honest and forthright, as desired, but members of the committee cannot use it in any way in their jobs, where have we arrived? If it's just a confidence problem if members of Congress do, we're in a very deep hole that is hard to justify democratic views. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u12	Mr. President. Yes, it can be difficult sometimes, but it has to be said at the moment that there seems to be a slight tendency for the management to take it up very quickly if the memory allows itself to speak politics, and allows it to use information for political purposes. All of a sudden, it seems to have become some sort of foul taste on the part's memory. It is also difficult to see if members of the Parliament are not to draw conclusions on what is being presented at committee meetings and make public comments. It is clear that there are very strict guidelines for confidentiality, but there are rules to be applied if members of the Committee or the Committee themselves want to maintain confidentiality over certain matters presented at the Committee meeting. It is very important for humans to remember that such indiscriminate faith is especially needed, and this has not been done in the examples mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u13	Mr. President. It is serious if we are considering the role of senators who must have the means to reveal viewpoints presented in committees on very serious matters that are truly relevant to the general public. Of course, it has to be confidential about what is said at the General meetings and the comments of the visitors, but the charges that the head of the welfare committee has broken a council because it reports that it was at a meeting of the welfare committee that part of the country was using funds to run into a nursing home in anything other than that - that information is truly relevant to the public. As a means of surveillance, we have the legal authority here at the council, we must want to highlight that fact. Mr. President. While we members of Congress are required to maintain our faith, we must not exaggerate or detract from the synopsis in order to take the attention of the major issues and facilities in the affairs of nursing homes and to stir up the dust on our religious beliefs and leaks within the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u14	A respectable president. I would like to discuss the confidentiality as a greater part of the Ministerial Assembly. Faith is always important, since it is necessary and because it serves some interests; to defend delicate interests, to protect sensitive information. The believer is never designed to serve only the interests of power. That's the silence. These findings here and this discussion here, and that the senators have to sit under it day after day from half of the section to leak information, information that has never been observed, is intolerable and unacceptable. This results in information, e.g. In terms of current management and monitoring issues, information relevant to the general public, it is not possible to find out because this has been some basis for the lack of information to be available to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u15	Mr. President. I'm not going to talk about specific cases, I'm not going to have a seat. A welfare committee, and they do not know exactly what was going on there. On the other hand, I'd like to make sure that it is clearly stated in Article 19. Congress that the meeting should not be witnessed directly or indirectly to guests with what is presented at a closed meeting. There are various meetings held here at the council, some are closed, there are regular committees, then meetings that are open to the media and open up meetings. You may feel that cases are a need for an open committee meeting. Then it depends on certain rules and is requested to be done in this way. Of course, I've been paid here at the council for an open meeting on such subjects. Another thing I'd like to mention is that the senators can, of course, apply information to closed committees by calling them out in some other way here at the Senate Hall, with inquiries, unsupervised or undercrowded or whatever. [[The president calls.]] They're not putting the lid on any pot. It's just that when people express themselves at committee meetings, they should be able to do so without being quoted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u16	Mr. President. I'm concerned about this application against the surveillance role of the Generals, which is going on these days, and I hope that a respectable president is concerned with me. I would like to quote in this book the representative of the Independence Party of the Commission and Control Committee, which is suggesting that the members of the Committee cannot rely on the arrangement for confidentiality. This is wrong. It's not true. This undermines the credibility of the General and the committee to monitor government counsellors. Is the minister of Independence really worth a stand? Don't you think it's too expensive to dig under the Council to protect the Independence Party from the shit that he's going to shit up his own ass?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u17	A respectable president. It looks like big words out here. I have to say, there is an obvious interpretation here, in view of the fact that the government doesn't think there was any confidentiality while we, many of us at least, believed that it was. It is vital that guests be able to live up to the fact that their accounts are respected and maintained unless specifically asked to do so. I must point to the minister here being criticized, chief. The minister of health, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, is here repeatedly to comment at the council and has been there. They've had plenty of opportunities to ask about these matters. It alone should not be complicated, to get answers about something people think is relevant to the public. However, information should be given, at sensitive times, and in these related issues carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u18	In delicate times?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u19	Aren't Covid times, aren't they delicate times in which the government is constantly quoting? [[The president calls.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u20	President's asking senators to calm down.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u21	Hv. Congress officials have repeatedly used this chair to say that their jobs are in a way that they cannot express themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u22	The president doesn't think we can have this conversation calmly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u23	Mr. President. I come up here to accuse myself when the members of the administrations and the Supreme Court. A health minister accuses me of breaking my integrity. In a press release, which hangs on to the Council's Web, it says that Congress laws state strongly that the confidence in matters closed by committee hearings. According to Congress laws, there should be no reference to individual words. This is different. If we were not allowed to discuss the issues under committees, we would never discuss any issues in public. It's just so clear. And because of what? Ármannsson Of course not to do this, by permission of the president, I intend to quote his speech delivered on January 28, 2021, by permission of the president: ▪ I was at a meeting on a welfare committee when the employment organization came to explain its review, and I couldn't understand their representatives so that the organization opposed the development of a targeted change now... I also, by the permission of the president, allow me to quote the Supreme Court. Healthcare Minister who spoke in speech on December 5, 2014: [[The president calls.]] But I noticed when doctors visited a welfare committee that their concerns were not only about remuneration but also about the lack of a vision for the overall health system. [[The president calls.]] Where, Mr. President, then, was the president of the council, or other members of Congress, when these senators betrayed the alleged faith? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u24	A respectable president. It seems that the more difficult the Ministers are in, the more the silence becomes. However, I would like to point out that during the 2011 transition to Congress, it was authorized to comment on what is going on at committee meetings. Says even in a report, by permission of the president: ▪ This development is a natural reason why committees are often discussed with important nationalities in which there are views that are not supported by confidentiality or visitors who have met with important information or viewpoints that have not been allowed to report publicly. So I strongly point to the highest. President to stand with the council and prevent the leeways and experiments that take place today from the majority of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u25	President. Sometimes I don't understand the mood. Councilmen who go from 0 to 10 without hesitation, and laugh and show disrespect for others in the hall because they have the courage to look at themselves and not to dare for very long. In all society, people work to keep their faith. This has been for years here. Then we have a situation. Is it one of the directors of the government who looks at himself? Nobody. It's always somebody else's fault, and it's always the silence, so go straight there, act like a dog. There is no freedom of speech for those in the government of the United States. Senators can call for guests at meetings, according to councils at meetings, they can ask for open meetings, they can ask questions, reports requests, specific discussion. Is that the silence? Is this a restraint on freedom of speech? Come on. However, they need to be careful about what they say with the media. Clearly, doing so is extremely difficult at times. That is what is being asked for, and they have to endure the fact that others have an opinion of how they speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u26	A respectable president. The discussion showed that sensitive confidential information and medical information in judicial cases, sensitive medical information, very sensitive, is a product for sale. They're goods for sale. Pronunciation and personal financial information of individuals: Salva, absolute sales. The hypocrisy of the community involves the fact that public information on the financial affairs of a community or the State is sensitive to confidential information. I think we've come to some ridiculous place. While we are publicly selling medical information and financial information on individuals, and some make money out of it, let's not say that financial matters are confidential.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u27	Mr. President. The head of the welfare committee made it possible to relate in his own way what the committee asked for at a meeting. I don't know if the description she gave during a television interview is the one that other committees would have given. This is by far unknown, and in fact, I don't think it's likely. But in that matter, it is almost at hand, as it were. The head of the committee knows who she was witnessing to at the meeting. Since the Chairman knows exactly who will attend the meeting, he does not have to have a similar surprise, and she knows exactly who might have given the information as she testified. Regarding what the chairman mentioned with the report of 140 workers the head of the welfare committee well knows, and most of the people in this hall, these employees will be reexamined at the same institutions in moving to the State. [[No.]] The Chairman knows this, and it is at best unattainable to say otherwise. [[This is wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u28	Mr. President. Senators have a rich surveillance role with the executive authority. It's not trivial. This is of utmost importance when a minister writes on the Ministry's Web and complains about a news transfer and complains about the chairman of the welfare committee as it is done. It's a serious attempt to be silent. I say, President, let's talk about the nurses' problems, let's go to the highest level. Healthcare Minister, to attack the problem. Let's talk about getting to the top. The minister of finance and head of the Independence Party went to parties that were broken by the CDC. Let's talk about a call as high as possible. The Minister of Justice was referring to the chief of police. Let's not let authority and government silence us. Let's do our part. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u29	Mr. President. On the basis of the words of several members of the council here, which believe the matter to be so simple that, on one hand, members of the committee are open and closed, I would like to mention only the interstate, which I thought we all knew. It is this: Council of Staff for the Generals, Article 4. 12th ... withauthority of the President's permission: A committee meeting is forbidden to observe official comments dropped at a closed committee meeting, cr. 1st mg, except for himself or by the permission of their share. That's what we know. It hasn't been broken. And then it goes: At the same time, visitors at the outset may request that members of the Committee be bound to the confidentiality of what they are informed at the meeting, and they should be chairman of the Commission's position. I'm on the welfare board. We were not all wanted, members of the committee, in full right to interpret what was presented materially at that meeting. That's what they did, and it would be better if most of the items in this room were more concerned about what was presented materially than how and who reported it and when. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u30	Mr. President. It's crucial that this is clear. There are only three conference forms that we have at committee meetings where we can get information to take a stand on issues we have to be able to inform the public about and in general just inform the public about what is going on. It's all about the public. The public is entitled to receive the information and to be informed that we are working in their behalf. On the other hand, there are closed meetings, however, as mentioned, when visitors appear before the committee. They will usually be with the form, what is called a visitor's meeting, that the media may come, and that is a word to be said. Then there is another religion. That's the difference. On the one hand, meetings are closed, not to be quoted. That doesn't mean you can't interpret even if I didn't do it myself, but I was particularly careful, and I was within the framework of the new President's interpretation on these matters. This new interpretation of the president, that if the meetings are closed, they must not even interpret - we can do our job only if all meetings that were probably very successful are usually so that they can be quoted unless specifically asked for something else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If it is not allowed, and there is a more part of the committee to agree with this, it is the only thing to remember after that, i.e. that all meetings are open to the press, that all meetings are broadcast from the council. [[The president calls.]] It's the only thing in the situation if this is not effectively solved for Congress and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u31	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said it should not be difficult to call for answers in unsubstantiated inquiries. No, it shouldn't be. But it is sometimes difficult to find answers to material questions. Let's focus on discussing the core here, not the chaff. This is a comment on a media medium in which it was generally said that a section of the country's rural society was making use of funds to run a nursing home in something other than a nursing home. In other words, it is being suggested that public funds are being used by a local partner in a suspicious and unnatural way. Why don't we talk about it? As an ex-communicator in one of these rural communities, I just think it sucks to sit behind it after spending year to pay off other parts of the service with nursing homes that have been underprivileged and that it should not be discussed. [[The president calls.]] Should not members of Parliament, see to it how they feel about these statements? Helgi's conniving wife, Hasla Helgadóttir, is that the charge? [[The president calls.]] I think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u32	A respectable president. In fact, it is half the time to sit under the words of more of the rest of the matter. He clings to the confusion of the argument, the straw that a confidential man has been broken. I have not yet heard conclusive evidence that a confidence was broken, and I sit on a welfare committee. No, an attempt is made to shoot the messenger. They come in full with their instruments of silence, all the way from within their plots. I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President, where is your sense of responsibility? Where is humility regarding the work we should be doing here in public view of the information presented at this committee meeting? I find it sad for democracy itself that the greater part uses some sort of useful filmer to other senators, on the opposition of the government, to try to influence our work. In fact, they have an opinion of how we express ourselves here in a talk chair, that we go too fast from zero to ten. Still, they go from zero to ten, saying that we're going from zero to ten and making the same impression that each senator's opinion is not the same as they have. [[The president calls.]] That's what the game's made for. That's what elected representatives of the public are for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u33	Mr. President. Of course, it is a well - known way to kill cases of distribution to feel something that is totally unrelated to and focused on what really matters. That is exactly what has happened recently in the examples we have been here talking about. It is also of interest to note that quotations have been made in the Scriptures. In the past, how they themselves have referred directly to a comment in a very decisive way, so you can only conclude that these rules of confidentiality are only when convenient for me. If any of us do so, it is a breaking point. I can do that when it suits me. You can't do that. And the self - examination is nice to look at once in a while. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think some of them are. Councilmen here on the part of government officials should do just that, take a good look at their own interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u34	A respectable president. Many of these discussions have been presented in support of the fact that there is good reason to discuss issues presented in these two committees, and I'm not going to add it or take much longer. But there's one thing I'd like to mention here. I think there's a special problem here in Iceland that you can't discuss a problem, but it's always discussed. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u35	Mr. President. Just to appeal, because here we witnessed a nice bang. A senator to my words from January 28th, then the comment came right through my discussion, so I looked it up, when I was correcting the interpretation of another member of Congress. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, has something to do with this fine business organization. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Hv. Birgir Þórarinsson's people here gave a public talk and, in my opinion, was witnessing in a totally wrong way to the company of the industry, and this forced me to come up and correct it. [[Up front.]] That's exactly what happens, then. Senator. That is exactly what happens when some senators appear and believe that they will be able to interpret what has been said. Then it forces others either to accept the misdemeanor, to stand, or to make their interpretation. That's why I sometimes wonder if the senators can't respect the natural faith - I'm not talking about the solemn confidentiality in the sense of Congress, but just the natural belief in what they are saying at committee meetings -- then maybe it's best to have all committee meetings open like hell. Martyrs have long talked about this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] However, it must also be noted that they may not be able to get the same information on the meetings as they were.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u36	President. Again on this trial of the president to the presidents and members of the Council. I wondered why she was here. What is it? Is it answering these matters regarding the phone calls of the Justice Department and the misuse of financial resources? At the end of his letter, the request is made that the presidents of the fasting committee go over confidential procedures with members of the committee and encourage them to honor them. It was in trouble. A budget in a minute or so. There is nothing to tell me after reviewing this trial at the Committee whether there is any reason to react in this way because of the issues presented here. It's the highest. To say that these two cases and how they were established are grounds for confidentiality, for confidentiality, or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u37	A respectable president. I just can't express my joy and satisfaction at those words. The senator's regular opening of a meeting and changing this secretistic arrangement at committee meetings to what should be normal, to conclude meetings if there is a sensitive subject for discussion, because not all topics are considered sensitive. There may be a small re-education in this council as to what constitutes a delicate subject and what is not. Besides, I think it's really strange how sensitive management is to the word silence, because if it's not that quiet, it's at least evere attempts to undermine the government. And if it is better from the seat of authority, sit on a high horse, and look down on the opposition and silence it or demean it. Which is better? Can someone explain it to me? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u38	President. I just wanted to encourage President to go over this exactly and not just this 19th paragraph. regarding the inability to give a witness during closed committee meetings. However, it is possible to do so when meeting a guest, but more of the committee is needed to achieve it. Maybe there's something we're going to do in the Board of Directors and Control because we're accusing the president of breaking down by saying tonight's news reports that new information has been published on the committee and that we need to look into it further. Of course, that is even the interpretation of the president. I spoke to the President in the first place. He then appealed to the committees, members of the committee, and committees, how this was done. The tweet, however, is very narrow. I ask the President to consider carefully what this really means at the council on how we can function. If the meetings are usually closed and there are no words that have failed, and according to President's interpretation, they are not even to be interpreted by those who attend a meeting, they are not to be referred to in that form. Then it may just be best for us to move to the point that when visitors arrive at a meeting, the meetings are usually open, as is permitted. [[The president calls.]] A lot of committees do that. We may begin to pray that it is standing. We can wish that more of them would agree. [[The president calls.]] If that doesn't work, we'll have to force an open meeting with three members. [[The president calls.]] It would be good if the president went over and tried to find a solution that was acceptable, so that the job at the council can be well informed and professional. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u39	Mr. President. To make it up, two committees have been convened about confidentiality. Senators. It is a very interesting attempt to move goalposts, one by killing cases on two committees and the other by making justification for all manner of suitable women in the Parliament for the future. I'm so glad I can agree. paritaprevir The year's Ármannsson request that perhaps it is time for the meetings of the World Council of Regular Committees to open up in order to reduce the risk of such an endless loss of identity. The meetings are usually meant to be open, not always, not unreserved, but that should be default. Then we can have more confidence when we need it. In many lands, this is exactly the way it is done because it is an understanding that the final word is always in the public. Always. If the public can't know what's going on here at the council, it's obvious that this sort of argument will arise when members of the council believe that there is need for information to be submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u40	Mr. President. There was an interesting explanation. paritaprevir The Birgir Ármannsson of a year before, that he wasn't throwing his finger into the breaking of the solemn confidentiality in the sense of convocation law, but that some normal believer in what is going on at meetings. The Congress works by conjugal law, not by some suitable interpretation of words that depend on how governments feel, that they have to kick a government stand. Here, the president has to decide whether he's going to stand by the council in this charge against surveillance in two committees in the last week, or whether he's going to let them drag us into this ditch, where some suitable policy dictates what to do and can't be said about the activities of the council. It can't be a situation with which the president of the All Congress approves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u41	President. I believe, in view of today's discussion, that these matters have been needed to be considered and to think only about why this principle is set and perhaps for what reason the rules are being interpreted in the present way. It seems to me that the interpretation of the majority is in such a way that the Senate program can hardly be published on the Internet because someone might see what they're talking about. You could see on the board of administration and monitoring committees that the first part of the operation was a violation of confidentiality, so when it obviously didn't feel right. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son talking about a breakdown of trust. In Icelandic, he does not appreciate the way Pirantar operates or has no taste for Pirates. Nothing new there. But the committees must be allowed to work. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u42	The president just wants to say that hopefully no one will talk about the silence of this discussion about a meeting president who has lasted a long time, the majority of the subjects talking twice, and the president will show tolerance that on chapters it has been about political issues, not in itself. Of course, there is confidential information and confidentiality to members of the Parliament's committees that are at stake in discussions about the work of the council. It was asked why the president had taken the lead in sending a letter of confidentiality to the officers of the fasting committees and to the members of the committees of the hearings for the weekend. The answer is simply that there had become official discussion of the handling of confidential information in two panels in one day and in the same day and the accusations of possible offenses, and for that reason the president felt the reason to post this letter of rights, and this has been done in the past. It was in hopes that a good discussion of this troubled matter, in which the president considers them to be the best part of his home, i.e. on the committees themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u43	To answer, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Ministers of Social Affairs and Children, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u44	Mr. President. On the day before the International Battle Day of Women, the Ministry of Education announced an appeal to the court of the District Court and thus continued a lawsuit against a woman who considered herself to be discrimination on the basis of gender. The Social Affairs Committee of Equal Opportunities had ruled that it had. On the international day of women's struggle, nine women filed charges with the European Court of Human Rights for the treatment of the Icelandic legal system. On the day following the International Women's Battle Day, it was reported that, instead of using the normal channel within the judicial committee, Minister of Justice decided to assign Jón Steinar Jóri Gunnlaugsson to perform the necessary restoration of the legal system. All of this sent bad messages to the women who want to seek their rights, even at the highest level. The prime minister and equalizing minister called the bell for equality in Copenhagen on the same day. Another big news went above the garden and below, and it turned to the systematic pay rights of the sex. In the newly developed government history, there is a striking difference between the income of men and women. It shows that women's education is less effective. The more women educate themselves, the greater the difference between them and men. A woman with a master's degree can expect 100,000 bucks. less salary than a man with a BA degree. I know there has been an employment team on the pay of the sexes at least One year, I ask the highest. Minister: Will it stress the urgency of the work group's work in the light of these frequentities, a group to offer suggestions on how to eliminate the pay of the sex? Or does it have any ideas of how to remove this amount of pay once and for all?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up an important case here in question class. At least I expect it to happen. A senator mentioned that I rang a bell for equality at the Stock Hall, then he doesn't consider it my only contribution to equality, for they have truly been won in this ideal period with a review of equality, new laws on sexual autonomy, a new prevention program against sexual violence and discrimination and sexual harassment and violence, which is now taking place. It's one hell of a case that'll hopefully destroy that lesion in our society. I also remind you of the prime products that the Minister of Justice has had here in the council on the siege of sexual privacy, which is a matter that is about our ability to eliminate this lesion. Hv. A senator then asks about the systematic pay rights that are certainly present in our society and quotes the book Theory, which is, in fact, the work of this government and has been an important means of getting a better grasp of the salary of society, the real provision of different groups that come out of other ways. that the income of people in the country is usually considerably lower than the income of people in the capital area, which is another matter that we should also discuss when talking about the equation in our community. The group that's working, and that's what. A senator quoted is a group set up in connection with the signing of government agreements and BSRBs. I expect these suggestions will be available in spring. I've been expecting that, because of what. A senator asks about my position, that there will be practical suggestions on how we can reevaluate women's values, for that is what that working group is all about. Of course, the equally paid witness that we have been able to provide for the introduction and legislation, not to consider the social values, but only the remuneration system within each workplace. This is what I think is the biggest project in the world. In the second, I can take a closer look at how I am able to reevaluate these values.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u46	Mr. President. No, I don't think the bell rings are the best. Ministers are her only contribution to equality, but they show that we are not going to succeed in a figurative way but in action. That's why it's not a problem to discuss who they are, e.g. the fact that the government's challenge is far more a matter of traditional men's work than of the worst in the crisis, which may include: Women, especially young women and non - Israelites. Gender issues were not guided by the shape of the government's actions; they were simply dusted by the 2008 financial crisis response, which was very different and was very different. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, "How are you planning to go to the top?" Ministers respond to this? Will the government revise these measures to take more attention to the status of women?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u47	Mr. President. I would like to say this here at the beginning of my reply that women's duties are, that I believe, one of the most important things we can do to eliminate sexual pay. I think we're supposed to be looking at the ideologies and methodologies of professional evaluation in that subject. I think it's the most important device we can use. How we do so is complicated, and that is why, even though for decades, the law of equal wages between men and women slowly goes up. Hv. A senator asks this question about government operations, and I think he is referring specifically to the public investments that have been discussed in transport workers and innovations that are certainly more useful to men. But count 'em why. A candidate for income loss grants, men mostly benefit from centres who are visiting small and medium-sized enterprises, 97% of the domestic labour market? Are they not exactly women who are working in these SMEs too? Is it not true that we too take advantage of investments in research, innovation, creative articles, which should indeed benefit women, and ask ourselves: " Why is it that women do not go to form as steep as men in their strength? [[The president calls.]] There is some root to which we need to attack. Finally, it may be the most important political decision that has been made, which is not cutting down the welfare and education system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's one of the things I've seen people give up, that they'll bite women because they're going to be attacked in that cut-off. If something has shown its value in this crisis, it's a system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u48	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Prime Minister for the unprecedented lawsuits of the state against a person who took his right to the actions of Secretary of Education Alfreðsdóttir Alfred and had victory, not twice, but twice. However, government lawsuits continue. The government has tightly arranged its silence on this matter in a way that the British king's family might be proud of, but I request here the reaction of the leader of the government. This issue has been thoroughly reviewed in the media. In short, the case is a case where a district court strongly rejected all the matters of the Ministry of Education in a case that she appealed to disproportionately to the justice committee because of her order to the Ministry. In spite of this, the government decides to appeal the case to a court order several hours after the fall of judgment. I respect the highest. The prime minister will not interfere with the matter in any way, though I do not agree with her decision, and I also respect it, even though I disagree again, that the prime minister is relieved to obtain news from the media by this unprecedented counterargument of the state. But I'm going to let myself walk out of the top. Prime Minister has developed an opinion on the matter, and I believe that this belief has something to do with the common people. I wish for a prime minister to share with us his view that a government under her leadership takes this step. I know this is not equal to the highest level. Minister. But is a minister proud that this is the equality of her government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the inquiry, although I do not completely agree with its definition of the great silence in the spirit of the British royal family, where I have previously expressed myself on this matter in the Hall and the media, even though it was not a meeting since the decision was made. I think so, huh? Senator, this silence is a pretty small silence, so I say it now. Hv. The senator will discuss this procedure as a joint decision of the government. I'll have to tell you what. Of course, there are a number of cases that individual ministers may hear under their scope. And as we have seen, both in the council hall from my side and in the media, this case is totally under the control of the highest authorities. Secretary of education and culture. It is her decision, both to proceed with this case at the time following the decision made in May of last year, as well as her decision to appeal. Hv. A senator asks me how I feel and how I feel about these matters in general. This case is under the custody of the Supreme Court. Minister. She knows the quality of the language. She has sought advice. There I have not been a subject, but in general, I would like to say that I think it is very important that people do not hesitate to seek their rights in such matters. That is why I proposed a change in the laws on the administration of equality, which is why. A senator knows that she along with others accepted that change. Councilmen who aim to see that a minister is looking for an invalidation to the Commission of Equal Opportunities, not just to an individual, but to a court of equal rights issue today. This is a change adopted at the General Assembly and aims to refer to the charge of the case rather than to the individual called on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u50	Mr. President. The State's lawsuit against a woman who has twice received confirmation that the Minister of Education has violated her rights simply dishonored other and better works of the government in equal rights. It's so simple. You don't have to be a person to think about it. I'm a living example of that. I'm going to remind you that not only is the highest. The Minister of Equal Opportunities but, under the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, must make sure that the switch between ministers is as clear as possible and to combine policies and measures when issues and issues overlap. If the Minister of Equal Opportunities, the highest. Prime Minister, won't you have an opinion on this matter because it is not a matter, why was the minister taking up the equality case at his own time, if there was not to be watched in such matters? I'm going to repeat my question: is the highest. Prime Minister proud of the lawsuit and the conduct of the Minister of Education on this matter on behalf of his government? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u51	Mr. President. Yes, that's exactly what it is with a clergy-alienization, which is totally clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u52	Synchronize course.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u53	And it's like everybody's driving. Councilmen know who know the basics of the administration order have unique ministers responsible for matters under which they hear, including man - made counselors. Hv. A senator here asks if I'm proud. Yes, I'm very proud of the success of my government on equality. In recent years, few governments have done just as much to communicate with them. We've seen amazing legal improvements, whether in the affairs of queer people, in reviewing equality or individations of equality, which I heard in some way. Councilmen here are talking about the issue of texture. No, it certainly is not. This is a fundamental change in the administration of equality. [[Up front.]] Precautionary plan. I am here to review the effectiveness of my government on equality. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator here asks for my opinion on a matter under another minister, who is responsible for the matter of knowledge of growth, and who makes that decision under the order of the administration. That should be why. Senator to know. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u54	A respectable president. Two consecutive months, the annual change in the index of consumer prices has been observed over 4%. This has not happened since the spring months of 2013. I repeatedly expressed my concern about inflation development and growing inflation in unsubstantiated queries to the highest degree. Secretary of finance last spring. V.E.G. With the permission of a president, the secretary of finance did not seem to share my concerns, as his answers indicated, under word. March 20, 2011: I have only the answers now that we do not see the immediate threat of inflation. March 23: At present, the response to market parties cannot be read beyond the fact that the market does not expect much inflation. April 20: At this point, no one will assume a massive inflation. It's just a fact. April 30: But I reiterate what I have said in the past that we are keeping a close eye on inflation development. So far, the market has shown no evidence of having faith in in inflation blow in the near future. Annually, inflation has been measured 2.5% over the objective of the Federal Bank during the past ten months, or since May 2020. Vasculitis has increased staticly and consistently during this time period. It was 4.1% in February, according to the Land Bank assessment, and it predicts 4.3% of inflation in March. So I ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he is concerned about the recent development of prices and whether he is at last willing to take action to protect his household from the negative effects of inflation. I know the highest. As a result of 90% higher inflation, what are some of the most secure loans on the market?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u55	A respectable president. I'm glad that you did. A senator is having a discussion at the council about inflation, and I can only deal with what I've said before that Iceland hasn't experienced much inflation over the time it refers to. My answers have even. It is based on the predictions of the official organisation, the Secret Bank, the Habitat, the market, of the market market, where the market can be read out inflation. We have not seen in general any concern about significant inflation. However, that is exactly the case. A senator that we are now somewhat over the control of the Federal Bank and that 4% of inflation is higher than we would like to see. We want to see 2.5% of inflation. I don't have an overview of the rise in the prices of the mortgage. There's a senator calling for it. But I draw attention to the fact that much new loans over the past few years have been in an unconvinced form. I must look intently at what I feel is all about, " What causes the inflation to become evident? ' What causes that inflation? In this regard, may I point to the recent high pay increases, and we need to ask ourselves, " Which extent does it move up to some extent in prices? ' It is not evidence of a healthy discussion of these matters if a person is going to shrink back from taking a basic talk about what leads to a loss of value. [[The president calls.]] And there are these teams, especially the mortgage and the remuneration in the country, that we must pause.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance answers, and I completely agree with him. Those who receive 2.5 million per month receive 370,000 bucks. increase and 3 million dollars, respectively. I agree, it must have a huge impact on inflation, and it's something we need to worry about. But would the Minister vote against the mob's bill for the removal of the secure housing bar once and for all? Those who have the prices of the mortgage are the ones who have the worst in our society. They have these loans to have a more favorable payload. It's the people who take these loans and have to take them. Then there's the other question: Is it the highest? Ministers 3.6% increase in social security normal? Don't you think it's time to spit in and put money on social security right away so people don't have to tighten their jam? Now it is 4.3% inflation ahead, and the increase was 3.6% prior to the previous year. [[The president calls.]] Must now have to do something for those wide sheets that didn't get a dime out of Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u57	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what it is. A senator refers to someone who did not get a cent out of Covid. We've had some special improvements in the social security system over the last year. The discussion about whether to ban insurance is another debate. As a matter of fact, I'm here with the council a bill on how to use insurance at 40 years' credit loans, and I'm just going to refer to my story on these subjects to answer that question. Senator. With regard to the pay in Iceland, which must have some connection with the development of prices in the country, the pay number has increased by 10.4% in Iceland during the past 12 months - about 10.4%.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Prime Minister who is not only prime minister but also equal minister. A great deal of attention was given to both me and others at the height of their lives. The Ministry of Education and Culture should celebrate the International Women's Battle Day by referring to a case that had been opposed to her twice, both in the decision - making board on equality and in the province, to the National Court. I'd like to ask a few questions about this. Now it's a natural trajectory to the highest. Secretary of education and culture is the only Minister in Iceland who has violated equality law, i.e. if the verdicts of the district and the judges are in this matter. I recall that two Ministers of the Interior did the same, one prime minister, and one financial minister. All of them were just as surprised at the decision they received. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister and Equal Minister: Does she believe that this case, which is unprecedented by what I know, will be a source of encouragement to those who are wronged to seek their right to the State? I'd also like to ask if it's the highest. A minister has an opinion of this case directed against a woman who has done nothing other than apply for a job and who is qualified to perform it. But instead of being offered compensation, as has often been done in such cases, it is being hunted before courts and will probably be for some time now. V.E.G. A minister earlier mentioned the responsibility of a minister in these matters, and now it is almost certain that the National Court will not pronounce its decision in this case until the present supreme court. The Minister of Education and Culture has finished their business, anyway. That's why I have to ask the highest. Minister: Will she take advantage of some means in which the Court's right to put this matter in a hurry to conclude that an election is held in the fall, and a privileged minister can then be responsible for these actions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. As I considered earlier, our system is so our system can be executed on a decision by the Court of Justice to the courts in order to determine whether the courts can confirm that decision. It is expected in the law, both as they were and as they are now after the Council concluded its revision, and it is also assumed that if there is a conflict of judgment in the province, it will continue to be possible to look to higher standards. It's the right of the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture has chosen to be useful in this case. Hv. A senator asks me: " Am I troubled about this, that these people not seeking their own rights? Well, I think we need to study this system, and that's what I did when I suggested to the council in the fall that the hearing of these cases, the administration of equal rights, would be changed so that if the appeal was an invalid matter, it would be not only to the individual but to the prosecuting committee itself, that the NTS Committee would be subject to a case. Why is that change important? Then it is the judicial hearing that stands before the courts. I believe that will ensure that individuals are not afraid to seek their rights, as that is not the case. Individuals must be able to seek their own rights. That's why we have this system. Hv. A senator asks: " Will I take advantage of this matter in a hurry on the part of the U.S. National Court? I hadn't imagined it. I hadn't thought of it until then. A senator mentioned this in his inquiry. To be honest, I've never used myself for making haste. I believe it is the courts to measure it every time. To be honest, I had not thought about it before this question period and I don't necessarily feel that it is for me to ask why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of these answers that are not quite encouraging. In addition, I would like to ask, Was this case perhaps the basis for the change of the law, such as the Supreme Court? A minister spoke of, and this by hand and by the supreme. Prime Minister? I can't see, you know. Minister, that we are somewhere else, but in the same place as in 2004 when the then minister said that equality laws were a child of his time. Is it really so that after 17 years we have not continued in these matters? Now I have to ask about ambition. Minister of equal rights. Does it have the ambition to change this attitude of the Kingdom? [[The president calls.]] And I have to ask you a question, too, sorry, Mr President: was the decision to take the case on this unprecedented journey approved, e.g. At a government meeting? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u61	Mr. President. I have to make this statement as stated earlier that this case is in custody at the highest level. Education and culture. It's not a government that approves anything from counsellers in such matters. That's not how the government is. The case is in custody of the Supreme Court. The Minister of Education and Culture and personally I don't think it's appropriate for ministers, especially when things don't hear under them, to resort to courts, like that. A senator put it in his inquiry, which I have merely digested. I would not feel that it would be fitting for the prime minister to employ himself in the manner in which the courts arrange their affairs, to seek the urgency of individual matters involving the minister of the prime minister's government. Hv. A senator asks: Was this case pronounced under the government? It was not ruled by a government that ended the custody of the Supreme Court. Secretary of education and culture. The minister made the government's verbal explanation of this case after the death of the DA in May. [[The president calls.]] That's when you did the highest. The government's minister of education and cultural security for this matter is by word of mouth, but it's not a government to accept it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u62	President. Political involvement in individual matters is a type of corruption that leads to progress in the interests of special interest in the public interest, a special interest that is being supported by best friends at the top while others are sitting outside the cold. To prevent political interference, we create public laws, rules, and professional procedures so that the management of our democracy can make objective decisions, not biased matters in which professionalism is important, not just useful chairs for friends and relatives or political allies. You see, we want professional government, not political. In this context, I would like to quote the 2011 financial minister's comments and ask if a minister is still of the opinion expressed in that statement and if not, why? By permission of the President: ▪ The fact of the matter, however, is that the whole nation is faced with the fact that prime minister must be considering a ruling on this matter and her initial reaction to the jury's decision is totally contrary to one of the main purposes of the bill that became equality laws a few years ago, e.g. that the Court's judgments were binding, to be binding Or did a minister of finance stop thinking about this when he himself violated equality laws by order in the office manager's office? Was the resignation required by the then prime minister just a political play based on his response to his own offense?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u63	A respectable president. I just have to say right now, I'm getting the feeling of it. A senator is having a conversation that is not related. The thing of course. A senator comes up here and wants to review, as a result of his speaking of great political corruption and cousinism and I don't know what was not said here, is the case when Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir did not file a case for an invalid decision of equality, despite being a social minister here with a bill that made the Commission's decisions binding. She was the minister who suggested this at the council and accepted it. Then, when the decision - making committee came to a conclusion in her case, she did not want to appeal a case to invalidate the decision and could not negotiate with the person involved. That's what I thought was a scandal. The minister was to deal either with judicial cases in order to get the result unconcerned or to negotiate with the object of the matter, which took far too long. In my case, as a boy. A senator gives evidence of some kind of corruption or confusion, and we simply made a deal for improvement, and we didn't do it. So that was the case. I don't understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u64	A respectable president. Obviously, I'm referring to a case of the highest order. The Minister of Education and Culture, who continues to sue the offender in spite of everything and despite the findings of the district. As shown in the findings of the court, there are questions to consider. But what is the difference between these issues, e.g. the case of former prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and the case of the secretary of finance, and also the minister of education and culture, candidates who were the most qualified or equally qualified for the job, in a personal interview in which they were actually chosen by the minister's opinion. This was not what Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir did, and the results of Generalis's agent were that the minister himself had not violated equality law but had been elsewhere in the process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u65	A respectable president. What an amazing conclusion that is! A senator that the Minister himself has not committed crimes but has committed suicide by someone else in the system. The secretary is the office. I'm not going to go out on this case for a second. A senator would like to recall that came up during my financial lesson. Of course, I took responsibility for that matter myself, even though the decision - making committee in that case never had a chance to contact, to look into the viewpoint of the person making the decision, to accept the interview, and to see why the order became as it was. The decision was never sought. But what's wrong. A senator has not realized that the Minister of Education is about to obey the law. What distinguishes her from Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir is that the Ministry of Education abides by the law and puts it to the courts to test whether the decision stands or not. I have to say in general about this discussion that it seems to me that at the council, when we agree with a law to appeal to a minister, he wants to address a decision. [[The president calls.]] But when a minister does, they talk about it as some general scandal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u66	A respectable president. At the beginning of this week, it was called the highest. Prime Minister that May 1, in fact, there would be little change in the habits of the land today as a whole. I was surprised. V.E.G. True, a minister noted that there would be a code of color, as discussed here at the council, but there would continue to be the Icelandic output, three screened on the border. This surprises me, especially since, in view of the government's opinion, vaccinations are going very well. In this regard, I would like to mention that when 70 years of age and older are vaccinated, the risk of death from this pandemic is negligible. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: When can we expect this goal to be achieved? We are faced with negligible risk of death when the 70 - year - old has been vaccinated. Is that not certainly a goal we can agree on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u67	Mr. President. I can't quite figure it out. A senator is showing. Like what? A senator knows that it is May 1 to adopt a border color code system. This means that it will be the same structure, double screening, and transfuse for those coming from so - called red countries, but it will be a changing arrangement for those from green and yellow countries, i.e. negative PCR tests should be returned, not more than 72 hours old, and then screening on the border. This arrangement, like what happened. A senator thought that I had said, certainly based on our Icelandic route, which has given a tremendous deal on the border. She has endured tremendously and has given attention to many of her successes. If I told you that there was a little change, I was witnessing, if it were. A senator is witnessing to me that the only country in Europe that would be considered green or yellow is Norway, all other countries are orange or red. Of course, if a few countries are on green or yellow, it would not be enormous. I'm counting on it. A senator understands this, for although the system is built on the color encoding system, of course, what happens on the border is hanging on how the epidemic develops in other countries. This is the system that I think, on the other hand, is based on the international cooperation we are in and on the fact that we are taking advantage of the good experiences we have had in this framework on a border, which is incredibly safe and has been very successful and has been very effective and that we have been very good in contrast with a great number of other European countries that have been making decisions one week in the past even about border operations. As for vaccinations, I'll come to that later in answer that time runs away. But like a dog. A senator may know that we have published a model on how to reduce the risk of vaccineing older groups. [[The president calls.]] I'll get to it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u68	A respectable president. My request was to determine exactly what we are going to consider. V.E.G. The prime minister says that there will be effective measures here in other countries. But is it not true that disease - prevention measures and other factors - keeping the country under siege must depend on how things are going in this country? I therefore mention that once a 70 - year - old or older vaccine is vaccinated, the risk of death and serious illness from this virus is negligible, I don't talk about it if you go down to 60 years old. It's negligible. Therefore, my question is, What are men doing, and how do people imagine that this phase will be reached? And what are humans doing to speed up that phase, including by getting more vaccines? In fact, there is good news about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine today, but there is evidence that AstraZeneca vaccine appears to be available in most parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u69	Mr. President. Hv. A senator started by discussing the color encoding system and I was just going over what it means and what it would like, for example. change if it were in force now. That would have to do with one country. When we decide our actions, do we not have to aim to some extent for the situation in other countries? Of course we must. And we will see how powerful a single infectious process can be. We're gonna go for a second. A senator may disagree, but it does not change our learning from the experience we have already acquired through this epidemic, and it can actually have an amazing effect, one infected person, in the case of such a deadly virus. I'd like to then say regarding vaccinations that Janssen J&J has been reported with positive reports today, and Iceland has secured several doses. We expect its delivery to begin in the second quarter, and they were now receiving marketing authorisation, which is very good news. At the same time, astraZeneca is not as well informed as it is being made of a definite interruption in its use due to adverse events in the field of study. Of course, it is just the opposite. Senator--I don't know about this clock here, Mr. President, but I can stand here and talk all day if you want, I just like it--but we've published a model of what happens... [[Up front.]] What, you don't like having me here? When a 70-year-old or older vaccination is complete and completely wrong. A senator says that there will be certain chapter divorces, which greatly reduces the risk of death and serious hospitalisations, and, of course, the government will take into account their policies and decisions on disease control. - I've been talking for three minutes and thank you very much, Mr. President. Don't you think it's supposed to be like this all the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u70	A respectable president. At the conference board earlier, the chairman of a council of the left movement came up and even said: that would be sufficient reason to ask a minister and get answers, to get information. You see, that's the way it is. These were questions presented to the highest level. Prime Minister, including half what. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, who relates to equality, lawsuits at the highest. A minister of education to a person who worked against it in a local court. We didn't get any answers. The questions were very simple, I think there were four words in the question. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson But we didn't get any answers, no position as minister. It is natural to think that we were not given the highest position. The minister of equal rights to this case was compromised. I just want to point out that we are in the Senate's maintenance role, trying to get answers, trying to get an explanation on important issues involving equality, in a case that we expect the Minister of Equal Opportunities to have an opinion, in the interest of equality, but there are no answers. [[The president calls.]] It's just a bunch of sky skates and some nonsense, including... the policy of the government, which fails to resist when asking questions about certain matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u71	Mr. President. I must agree. In fact, there is a rule rather than an exception to the fact that we in the government opposition are preparing very clear and specific questions to a minister who comes up here and says interesting things - not lacking - and would be inclined to enumerate his previous accomplishments - but would not answer questions that are addressed to them. More often than not, our second speech starts with asking a minister to answer the question, but it does not. So I must encourage the highest. The president and others sit down and discuss this, stop the Ministers when they are far beyond the material, and ask them to stick to the questions. [[The president calls.]] That's the job of the highest. President to protect our council's rights to the Commission. I don't think that's what they do by letting the counsellors go out and south without even approaching their subjects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u72	President. I want to agree with what others have. Senators have said something about this matter. It's a problem. It is a very important stage for us to call for information and clear answers from the minister, and I'm seeing a red thread through the discussion. This is like the discussion that took place under a meeting board earlier, that there is always an effort to shift the attention from what is the case, needed to answer and face, to something else, to: we have done this, rather than answer the permanent question asked for a minister. I would also like to express my frustration that the president of the entire council is not opposed to the silence we discussed earlier in the previous conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u73	Mr. President. I have to agree with these statements that have been made because it is very remarkable to see how all the efforts of the Parliament to sustain the European Commission are systematically made incontrovertible. You have wondered, " Is it not dangerous if a discussion about the European Commission's activities cannot be carried out without being suspicious, whether it is something that causes the council to harm both on the outside and on the inside? ' It is also remarkable, I must say, when questions to ministers about their jobs change rapidly into a game where ministers try to avoid all responsibility and paint in place of some of the most brilliant forms of their victories, whether there is no evidence that a certain power is going on in our society and perhaps least in the government, and whether it is done to weaken all the institutions that build their existence in order to follow their decisions about power. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u74	A respectable president. I have to agree with the criticism. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. If we get exactly that kind of answers or no answers, we often get a story explanation, as mentioned in my inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of finance, historical explanations of the failure to use legal routes to decompute the minister of finance. I think it's rather obvious to see it in all the discussions on the subject that it just wasn't like that. We live in this very problem that we are trying to keep our own role under surveillance, which is grudging: Failure of faith. We're doing our own surveillance job, but questions aren't answered. We're doing our own surveillance job, but we're getting a story on something else. This is the problem we have. We ask and ask questions about political exchanges. Here's the Minister of Education and Culture to hire their platoon brother. And the Minister of Justice calls the Chief of Police on behalf of the Secretary of Justice. [[The president calls.]] This is the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to re-enact directly from unsubstantiated queries at the highest level. The prime minister received this question, not on two occasions, but on several occasions, her attitude toward certain judicial matters that are appealed to the Icelandic State against a woman, i.e. On the part of the Minister of Education, the minister of her own government. And despite being persistent about the subject, her answers to how she feels about it are impossible. Of course, in itself a firm answer is that she repeatedly has the opportunity to state that this does not harmonize with her own equality in emphasis, but she chooses not to do so. Of course it is. Then there may be, following what we were discussing earlier today as to the conference management, regarding our access to information, so those ministers who have the lesser part of our business are not here today. You can't have a conversation with those two ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u76	A respectable president. I would like to highlight the simple questions that were addressed to the highest level. The prime minister and the minister of equal rights were not answered today. And what about the Senate's maintenance role when very specific questions are raised, but then they are not answered because they are politically unpleasant? I agree with what was said just before that, of course, is a certain declaration by a prime minister of equal rights who is a prime minister not to take sides in the matter, who does not wish to have an opinion of the case in which all the issues of the Ministry of Education have been, both of the counts of equal rights but, in fact, rejected, completely. But the Justice Minister doesn't want to comment on the matter, and I'm sorry about that. As far as I can see it, the prime minister is simply blessing all of this lawsuit at a minister of education. The second question, then, is how government ministers use both here and there within the council. [[The president calls.]] If the hold is too much from here, we're not answered, and when they represent us, even the people we are. That governments ask unpleasant questions, what do ministers of the government do? They get rid of the uncomfortable representatives of my share.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u77	A respectable president. I had lunch with my sister today, and she asked, "What's up with this job you're in? I said, "Hey, it's just incredibly fun, committee meetings and a lot of information, but I can't tell you about them because everything's off the record. But I can't do anything about you and stuff like that. And then we continue to talk about how the council operates and how it works. And she complains to me like that, just as my whole family complains to me very regularly that nothing happens here during this council, and I say, "Well, I'm not responsible, I'm in a position of government, so those responsible are the people who can make things happen, you really need to talk to those people. But I'll try to do it for you. But they're not here, they're never here. And then, if they're here and we ask questions, we don't get answers to them. I tried to explain this to my sister for lunch. But she really doesn't care because she feels that she is not doing anything for her, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u78	President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister of state for treating my request so kindly. We, who have been opposed to our presence in the NATO military alliance, have often wanted to discuss these matters here at the Assembly Hall. Is Iceland supposed to be a party at the Atlantic Alliance? That's the question we've been asking ourselves since the then government decided that Iceland would be founded on NATO in 1949. When an independent republic decided to yield part of its independence and to join a military alliance, it was not now five years old. And the people were not asked, for they protested and the rulers had to use tear gas against them with white hands. But isn't it just history? Why am I remembering it here? The entrance may be history, but we are still in NATO. We are still members of a military alliance and responsible for all its actions, attacks on other countries, in the Balkans, Afghanistan, Libya, escapers after these attacks. We are responsible for all of this because we are in NATO. I'm not going to judge people who are in the ice bonds of the Cold War decided that it was necessary for Iceland to take a stand with the other party on a two-way dispute. I disagree with those who did, but I'm not going to question them. On the other hand, I'm going to challenge the reasons for those who feel that they do not have to take sides with our presence in NATO today, who appreciate the situation today after the obsolete values of the Cold War, which do not face the fact that NATO has changed completely. It's not just a matter of defending the nations from attack, it's not hesitant to attack ourselves. And Iceland, we're in NATO. President. What are the major threats we face today? Will anyone claim that they are the same ones in 1949 during the Cold War? No, it doesn't. We face the biggest threats every day. They appear in the mask we wear because of the pandemic. They appear in extreme weather because of climate change, which causes creeping and snow layers, all paralyzed. They appear in changing fishing tunnels, in acidification of the sea, in a disaster - warming process. They appear in Internet attacks that can paralyze entire communities in an information mess that can undermine democratic order. This is what our national security is about. But we are trapped in the Cold War Thinks and spend most of our national security policy in the fact that we are in the charge of the charge of the Alliance of NATO, even using it as an excuse not to participate in a work that obviously makes the world a better place, such as the United Nations covenant on the ban on nuclear weapons. We say that we cannot share in it because of our presence in NATO. Well, why don't you stop in NATO. Climate and pollution issues are far more important than NATO. And President. Military and military waste pollution, increasing the climate problem. Iceland is to take the lead in combating war, military production, and pollution related to war. This we do not do by being in a military alliance. But the Russians won't just attack us? I almost hear someone ask. Well, have they not necessarily attacked other outside of military alliances, or have we seen Russian troops in Ireland? President. On March 30, 1949, tear gas was used here on the outside because of the arrival of Iceland in NATO. Then, in the final records, the people were crushed: Be prepared for us. Ask the people. They called on them at the conference. Sadly, the people were not then listened. But today we can show that we are able to adapt to a changed world. Let's stop chasing the old-fashioned philosophy of the Cold War. As a result, let us be worldwide in behalf of peace and humanitarianness, in the fight against the climate problem. Let's stop being in NATO. Iceland from NATO, the Army out!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a discussion on the role of the Atlantic Alliance, both needed and good here in this regard. One basic obligation to each State is to ensure national security and security. Safety from threats that may cause city citizens, control systems and community infrastructure to be greatly damaged. What is the best way to care for these basic governmental obligations? That question is answered in the current national security policy adopted at the General Assembly in 2016. The policy shows that Iceland's involvement that the Atlantic Community will remain a key element in Iceland's defenses and the main site of Western cooperation that Iceland is involved in on civil grounds to promote its own safety and other alliances. We Icelanders live in a country where bad weather and natural disasters can threaten our safety. That's why we've built a powerful public defense system on which we trusted. But what about other threats? What about the threat of military threat, the threat of terrorism, or the Internet? Would it be responsible for the Icelandic government to say: The likelihood of such attacks is small, so we are going to give up the international work that has been a guarantee of national security and protection for soon 72 years? My answer is: The Atlantic Community is a defense alliance. For 72 years it has fulfilled its goal to ensure peace between Member States and to prevent external warfare. The horror of World War II was still freshly remembered by those assembled in 1949 to establish the alliance. But they were also concerned with the threat of the Soviet Union. I believe that we Icelanders are to be proud that our leaders, with Bjarni Benediktsson, the minister of foreign affairs, at the tip of the voyage, had the vision and courage to take part in Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Alliance. The Community decision-making is in the hands of 30 Member States on the basis of common security concerns. That's where Iceland has its seat at the table. We benefit from the joint protection of the Community, but the commitment of the Member States under Article 5. The Atlantic Convention states that an attack on one state of the alliance will amount to an attack on all of them. No other partnership has such assurances. The Member States of the Atlantic Alliance strengthens our ability to meet new challenges to security and protection. That's how we use it, e.g. The knowledge of the Community to promote and shape our response to multi-item threats. As an armyless country, we contribute to the common defense of the United States on civil grounds. A respectable president. During the unsurpassed incorporation of Russia in 2014, there was a turning point in the security and defenses of our world and the challenges and threats in our security environment that have taken on a new and more complex picture. United States and Iceland's increasing activities reflect the safety concerns involved in Russian military development and a decrease in the scope of what they're doing. Their development in new missile systems is also a concern that cannot be overlooked. Western countries involved have improved the coverage of the Arctic, in agreement on safety and protection, in regional cooperation and at the scene of the Atlantic Community. Obviously, Iceland and I are required to be members of that arrangement. Norway consists of two classes, the Sisian left party and Red, against Norway's involvement in the Atlantic Community. These groups, however, do not indicate that Norway should weaken its defenses, on the contrary, the Norwegian army needs further support. To be sure, Finland and Sweden are not neutral kingdoms; they have chosen to be no part of a defense alliance. Both of these countries serve a powerful army, which is the fundamental premise that they can stand outside the lines of defense. In some cases, then, instead of a member of the Atlantic Union, there is an increased normic protection. The development of this cooperation has been positive, but it is far from being replaced by the arctic alliance and there is no evidence that such a political will exists in the North countries. A respectable president. With the involvement of the Atlantic Alliance, we in Iceland enjoy protecting the most powerful defense alliance in history. It guarantees our defenses and security, but at the same time it enables us to remain an armyless nation. Both surveys and election completions show that this is how the majority of the people agree. That comparison is a cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u80	Mr. President. We here discuss our involvement in the Atlantic Community to wish for a representative of the political party here in a country that is due to the birth of Iceland's fiercest rival presence in the confederacy of democracies, although that group has changed the social security number several times. From the beginning of the republic, he has fought this issue, and again he has called on his stand. Iceland is founded on the Atlantic Alliance, which can be claimed to be the most important decision in foreign affairs from the start. In that way, we set Iceland up in a rural area with other Western democratic nations. The Member States of NATO are absolutely key to Iceland's foreign policy. Mr. President. During the early decades of the republic, there was an unmistakably unmistakably separateness between the three democracies, the independent party, the forwarding party, and the Allied Party. The United Nations Chairman, the German Party, failed to support the Icelanders'involvement in NATO, but now they have raised legitimate questions about the position of the party in this important matter. Within this category, there have been some changes now that some declared opposers of the Union have joined the Party, people who support this membership in no way. How interesting it will be to hear the United States spokesman's attitude toward life in the Atlantic Union! It is clear that the Conspiracy will clear its doors and inform us of the stand on this matter. Mr. President. In this regard it is also worth considering that the Independence Party is taking the offer that left greens will have a crucial impact on the necessary activities of the Community here on land, civil activities in Helgavik last spring, and at an age of increasing unemployment in the Southnes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u81	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A saying that we face very many and far - reaching threats in daily life and, of course, on a larger scale. Indeed, global warming is among them, the Internet, and the traditional threat of protection. These challenges all of us face in common that we will find no answers to them unless we find great international cooperation. The new threat, the technological revolution, and the climate change are even more inspiring. A small and small country like Iceland has to do with international cooperation and stable allies just as much as the rest of them do. Therefore, the United States has long held that Iceland's interests are best assured by cooperation within the international institutions, both in the economic sector, when it comes to defense, and especially when it comes to dealing with the climate crisis. Iceland is one of the founding states of the Atlantic Community, but we have the uniqueness that we do not have an army. We believe that participation in this cooperation is one of the key sites in Iceland's defenses, as it shows in national security policy for Iceland, which we in the United States support. It is of interest, however, that a group of left green people did not vote for it, but now they accept it in the government covenant. So you might ask yourself, " Is this the subject of empty words? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for this special discussion about NATO and Iceland's membership into the coalition. That question was answered in 1949, as we know most people, but not without difficulty. The situation in the world then was that the situation was addressed in order to ensure the security of the nation under test. I feel that in some way in this discussion it is proper to turn the question around as a matter of course. A proverb states that there is a reason to make a special decision to abandon the alliance. Of course, there have been a lot of changes in the world, and there is more to it than a war in the sense of the last century between the West and the East. We view these activities as one of the main sources of national security and the realms of Western cooperation. It is under attack in our national security policy, at the highest level. A minister checked well, since we think we are most secure and protected by active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. That's the most important point of all that I know. Iceland is participating in civil terms to promote its own safety and other alliances, taking such cooperation into account mutual risk factors. I feel like the answer's in there, chief. President; risk factors are more extensive. They are global, social, and military, and we must emphasize international cooperation. A part of NATO is an important part of it. I've known this only through the NATO Senate Committee. It places great emphasis on protecting against the Internet and it presents issues of the north, economic instability, the influence of false news, power balance, and many other factors. [[The president calls.]] These are all threats today that we need to cooperate with each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u83	A respectable president. One of the more unexpected consequences of climate change may be the stimulus of the superpowers in the north as Arctic routes open. Because of this, the declared goal of Iceland and other Arctic countries is to maintain a low level of tension in the north. However, tensions are growing in this area. And who stands for their increase? Not only is it enough to point to the Russians but America is in the key role here, NATO, using Iceland as the stage for this development. Take it, for example. The station at Keflavour Airport, where a military base was shut down in 2006. In the years that followed, a small number of security workers began to arrive on the increasing scale until the presence of soldiers was maintained in 2015 and has continued to exist since then. Let's just look at the last year. At that time, each year air cover was three months, with 130◯250 soldiers. It was submarine surveillance for over six months with 60 soldiers. The submarine - surveillance support was on hand at Keflavourfield every day in 2020. Mr. President. There is much to say about NATO, but there is more to it. In other words, it is an immensely omnipotent and incredulous machine. Apparently, these characteristics were spread because no informed democratic discussion of this enormously altered role of the security zone at the Cheflavour Airport was ever carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u84	A respectable president. The Government Convention was adopted at the VG party council with two thirds of a vote. The Treaty emphasizes the national security issues, that they are in place, and that the national security policy adopted by the Generals will be guided. It makes clear that Iceland's sovereignty is guaranteed by its involvement in the Atlantic Community and the national defence agreements with the United States. This means that the left green has formally agreed that it is the policy of the category that Iceland is involved in the Community and has a defense agreement with the United States in order to preserve its sovereignty. When the government was formed, there seemed to be no doubt about it at VG's party council that the main value of membership was to defend the sovereignty itself. It was really the most political news about the creation of the present government, and at the same time, in my opinion, the most satisfying. The national security policy is the only democratic approval of the Generals who state the reason for the role of NATO and the defence agreement against the United States. The national security policy and the laws it builds are heard by prime minister. Prime Minister has spoken for national security, both at home and in a foreign field, with great determination. However, if VG has changed his view of national security since the government was formed, the prime minister should consider it as a government or following the events at the General Assembly. In that light, I think it is proper for an advisor to consider directing his question to the prime minister. But the perfunctory needs to clarify the purpose of the discussion more clearly, I believe he has to. There's only one reason why. A senator who accepted the Treaty more than three years ago to address this question as a result of the election has already begun to question whether he had done right and had doubts that the treaty is based on the right terms. Thus, an apocalyptic needs to explain when he began to question what he personally agreed to do in the beginning of his administrative work. [[The president calls.]] Just as he must understand whether the left green will wish for a change in the government covenant, so that the work of government will be replaced after the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u85	Mr. President. The world faces many threats. Should we mention global epidemics of disease and climate problems or poverty as the most obvious examples? This will not be dealt with by warfare and weapons, whether inside or outside of military alliances, especially inside. Should we talk about the untold horrors of the inhabitants and the unprejudiced stream of refugees to Europe because of wars that have been under the signs of NATO or of the United States in the Middle East? NATO is there the doer, not the answer. Nuclear weapons are fundamental to NATO's military policy. The Alliance does not first rule out their application, and so far no NATO member states have trusted to become a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. Civil participation in NATO's actions is now empty when we are talking about a military alliance that wants to use nuclear weapons. Iceland is part of a small group of armsless countries of the world, and we should use it to do good in the way of others'disputes and thus to be active members in the solution to complex solutions. The primary obligation of the government is to ensure the security of a nation. A military station is a target, a word spoken in the past, and those words are certainly still applicable today. We must have the courage to create independent foreign policy. We need to create a foreign policy that is important in the world's present environment. [[The president calls.]] We're to resign from NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u86	V.E.G. President. It is good for the people to have been one of the 12 founding nations of the Atlantic Community or NATO when the Atlantic covenant was signed in Washington in the spring of 1949. A few people like us are simply impossible to secure the defenses of our country unless they cooperate with other larger countries. Iceland's Member States, as well as the national defense agreement with the United States since 1951, are now our main sources of security and protection. NATO is currently an alliance of 30 countries in Europe and North America. These are the nations that are next to us in historical context, the nations that we share with ideals and values. The Atlantic Union is a site of Western democracies who want to protect the freedom of the citizens, democracy, human rights, and the legal state themselves. The core point of NATO's work is that this is in the nature of its defense alliance in which decisions are made together on common security interests. Thus Iceland can have a greater and more powerful voice than if the country stood neutral outside the union. They are few in that group who minimizes the threat of warfare. Most people are aware of a very changed world. Because of this, our main neighbors and our friends have resorted to increased protection and equipment. Nor should we forget that just eight decades ago, during the first years of World War II, matters could easily have developed in Iceland. Germany invaded Denmark and Norway at the same time as the British took land here. German occupation was a period of humiliation in the history of both countries that left open wounds. V.E.G. President. The Member States have been a success of the Atlantic alliance in Iceland. So we are to remain active in it and to promote peace and stability in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u87	Mr. President. The changing situation in Europe's security and defenses has changed the political geography of the Russians. These measures are Europe's greatest challenge. They have appeared to us in more than one way and have established a link between safety and protection policies in Europe and the North Atlantic, a situation that has called for closer cooperation in the field of NATO. The signature of this special discussion is therefore easy: Iceland is to be in the Atlantic Community, and Iceland is to live up to its commitment to it. NATO's Union has been steadily expanding defense contributions during the last eight years to meet changes in security outlooks. At the Council's Ministerial Conference, plans for increased contributions, investments, and more active participation in Community work were discussed. Defense efforts have been increased among the northern countries, and Iceland has increased its share in the civil work of NATO. In view of changing circumstances in Europe's safety and protection, the North Atlantic should also be increased in the National Council of NATO. Mr. President. Iceland must fulfill its commitments when it comes to the situation necessary in this country to ensure its security. As in Helga, which is paid by NATO and U.S.A., differences within the government have led to the loss of necessary projects. We cannot expect our alliances to protect us during a time of conflict when the government prevents this as a minor and defensive standby. The government has prevented projects of 13 billion dollars. in the safety zone at Keflavík Airport, paid by the United States. These include 600 jobs at the end of the 58 permanent jobs of the Icelanders. Never can any differences within the government take the place of national security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u88	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for this discussion, because it's one of the long-term issues in Icelandic society, although, fortunately, the temperature of the Cold War has been reduced. Is Iceland supposed to be a party at the Atlantic Alliance? is asked here by an abbreviation, who. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér. The Senator must answer yes, because he supports the Constitution that in Iceland's national security and development policies, which claim to be involved in Iceland's involvement with the Atlantic Community will remain a key source in Iceland's defenses and front centre for Western cooperation. So maybe the question was, do we support Iceland's national security policy? But, hey. It is against Iceland's presence in NATO, as do many of us who do not support Iceland's beings in NATO but who are willing to do more of the democratic votes, whether here at the council or among the political parties. Iceland is a member of the Atlantic Alliance, whether we like it or not, and opinions are divided into political parties and in the community. I know that well. It was also seen in a survey conducted for the Ministry of State in the spring of 2019, of people's attitude toward NATO, where it was found that less than half of our involvement in Iceland and our presence in the Atlantic Union, or 48.9%, but just less than 20% are opposed to ours there. So much of the country does not have a clear view of our presence in the alliance, and it is worth considering whether it is bad or good. Mr. President. Talk about diversity of opinion. There are a wide range of opinions within the United States. There are strong views that point to reevaluating Iceland's presence in NATO but also strong views about our continued existence there, and these opinions have been raised. Yet, in spite of the will of the greater part of this council, we must be willing to be able to criticize the conduct of individual alliances or even the coalition itself. And it's my opinion that we should ask ourselves, " Am I to participate in international defense cooperation automatically, representing the military presence of the United States here that is not related to NATO? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would have liked to say much more, Mr. President, but the bell rings and I'm going to have this discussion inside.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u89	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking you. paritaprevir Kolbbi Proppér Prope for this discussion. We have at times mentioned that we speak too little about foreign affairs. Hv. paritaprevir At the end of his talk, Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörður Brylfóttir mentioned that a large percentage of the people in the country had no opinion of NATO. It tells us that we need to talk more about that subject. What is NATO? Why Are We in NATO? Should we be in NATO as we are now, and so on.? All these questions and meditation are entitled. I have listened carefully to this discussion, and the passwords in the discussion are, in my opinion, national security, small state, and the importance of international cooperation has not changed since 1949. It was the right decision to participate in NATO at the time, and that is still the case. Granted, these decades have made changes in the species and nature of threats, but there are threats. I wanted to mention the Internet security issues here especially at the short time I have. I think it was yesterday that an Internet attack was made at the Norwegian Parliament. Network attacks can activate 5. The Atlantic Convention on NATO, and I have quite a few words about the factors involved in Internet security. However, within NATO, there is a special division on new Internet security problems. I have to state to my point that notic cooperation is important, but it's also because it allows us to use the knowledge and protection it offers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u90	A respectable president. Throughout Iceland, there is an increase in tension. In the past of the present government, the greatest acts of defense in Iceland have been initiated since the end of the Cold War. More than 10 billion will go to other facilities in the security area at Keflavík Airport, but also to take on new projects, such as submarine search, such as a place of lodging to remain at the Air Force training camp, such as building up any wood needed to make the base of Chefavik work at any point as a leap to the next attack that the NATO might want to take part in. This is happening today. But there is no need for more than that, as an interview with the head of the U.S. Navy showed that last autumn he envisioned a small permanent footprint from the United States as a seaport. Now there's a bill that says it's the highest. The minister of the minister's plan is to expand the safety area at Mount Gunnolfsvík so that it covers northern Finnfjords. There are people who have seen that they are expected not to be business presidents for a major crew in Finnfjordur, and they are going to go to the pocket of NATO to finance it. Mr. President. Iceland's government, like other governments in the north, claims to want to maintain a low level of tension in the region. It simply doesn't match words and deeds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u91	A respectable president. I'd like to remind you that NATO is a defense alliance, so I may not be a major problem apart from the question we need to ask, should we leave our friends, even those outside the alliance, who have been building up their relationship and deepening with NATO like Saviar and Finnar have done over the years? I would like to agree with what has been said before that there are certainly other threats, anything other than when we agreed to become members of the United States - the climate, information chaos, and Internet security. But all of these are new threats, stressing the importance of our involvement in international unity as never before. Of course, countries are also being threatened in a different way. We experienced military superiority in the Soviet Union back then, but today we face a state that has both military and even economic advantages and that is also against both democracy and freedom on top of it. So there are other threats between countries and treaties. Hv. A word-of-a-moment, my ass. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, has repeatedly brought the bill to transport the decision to its defense campaign from the Minister to the General. I'd like to say about the matter that I find it interesting and in a good fit, in my opinion, of an open and democratic discussion of such important matters, e.g. when moving or setting up defenses. I think this is something we should go to deeper down. When he first gave the case, he even said so. that it was the most important thing in the history of VG. So I'd like to ask, is that right? How has he been successful in getting his colleagues to join him in this important matter, considering that he did? And at the end, I would also like to ask him, " Is he willing to make more part of himself with other categories for elections so that such a case will be established? ' Is he ready to do that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u92	President. I appreciate this discussion. She surprised me a little. She was more complex than I expected. There were various material arrangements, but I expected them to be. True, traditional political outcasts and strokes, but not in the amount I expected. I'm not necessarily sure that members of Congress are surprised to learn that a national security policy that we've been against is real because the majority approved it. It's called democracy. It seemed a little strange to me to hear that I must support NATO and national security policy because of my support of government. A senator who joined the ranks supporting NATO. Then the same would be true of what. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Braenfjörðurdóttir if this will work out for me. I don't share her opinion of it. I think her opposition is real, and I'm asking her to respect that my opposition is real, too. This has been discussed with us on the subject of NATO. Yeah, NATO does things. NATO is an alliance of the world's greatest weapons - producing countries that pump weapons into war - torn territory. NATO is an alliance that dissuades its member states to protect the ever - increasing amount of money in weapons. ANTO is a nuclear alliance that bends and breaks the current disarmament agreements, or are we to recall the missile system that led to a new arms race? NATO is an alliance that operates with armies in such countries as Israel and Saudi Arabia. NATO is an alliance that teaches itself to democracy, but he has in his line of land, such as Turkey, and he is afraid to breathe on those in authority there. NATO is an alliance that contributes to a refugee stream through military attacks. NATO is an alliance that Iceland should not take into account that Iceland should lead in the affairs of peace and the battle against disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u93	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I think she's useful and kind. On the other hand, I want to use this opportunity to correct certain things here or to put certain viewpoints in perspective. The big thing is, if you don't want to be in NATO, you'd probably ask, "What's the choice?" The Irish were mentioned here. They have a very large army, and, of course, all nations that are not in NATO have an army. I here referred to the views of the Norwegian political parties who do not want to be in NATO. Yet, they want to strengthen Norway's military defenses. Then, about the prohibition on nuclear weapons. There is no nuclear nation involved in this contract. That nations will give up their defenses alone is primarily something that none of us would like to compare with. They won't give up any nuclear weapons, North Korea or any other country like that. Nuclear disarmament has been very high since the Cold War. She's been mutual. It is natural that we have prevented the necessary action. And they're not right. A senator who was reviewing the increase in the role of changing roles to some new project. Why do people think this submarine hunt is? That's because they're submarines. That's the case, and it's not a new role. I don't know what to say about Finnfjordin. There's no support in the real world. I got it. I got it. Councilmen who are going to discuss the matter of doing so from fact to fact, not of creating something that is out of support in real life. A respectable president. I'd like to thank you, by the way. A senator who begins these discussions. There is no question that we disagree on many issues, the Independence Party and the Left Green, and there's nothing better. But as we all know, we made a covenant of government together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u94	A respectable president. I come up here to state that we in the United States support this case. This is good language and progress and touches the vast rights of people to obtain books. I, however, have a new proposal that I hope the U.S.R. will do well. It's about reforms for these uses not only to writers but also to claim rights. There are more people there who have more material interests than authors alone. The publishers are forged and may be heiress of authors. It is reasonable that compensation for these uses also applies to such courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u95	A respectable president. I'm celebrating this case. This is, of course, correct for individuals participating in clinical studies where there is no background and solving certain uncertainty in these issues. On the other hand, the Landspians in their review criticized the maximum amount of insurance improvement, a fraction of what is common in the North countries, in terms of similar issues. They might have been more considerate of that. It is mentioned in the committee opinion, but this amount could have been raised. In general, this is a good case and a requisition, but it can be done better if it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u96	Mr. President. Thus, the review of document processing of this issue's status document of carbon dioxide drink, after 2. ... twothings to fix. I make it clear that this is a completely legal thing. First, it is about using the word "saltation area" in the 22nd paragraph. corrects the method of loyalty and therefore needs to be converted to the word'species of the century' according to other articles in the bill. Looks like it's been forgotten. The environmental and transport committee also did not notice this discrepancies. Second, and that's a move, in the final paragraph of the protection law, 67. g., I need to move one paragraph, and I'm simply going to explain this by reading these modifications. It's only part of the article, one paragraph. The motion we're making here, or I'm in the name of the Environment and Transport Committee as our executive, is just like this: 1st After 1st. Come a new article, as follows: Instead of the word 'toilet,' in a-team 1st. Twenty-two. The law comes: the area of incision. 2. Following the words "Kennay" in the introduction section b-joins Article 3. Come on, it's 7 mg. In other words, it is taking words out of the heart of 67rd par. I'll be right up to 7 mg. I hope the senators understand this, but it's a completely legal adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u97	Mr. President. It has now been a year since the General Assembly approved a resolution on the development of cluster policy. On the basis of the council arrangement, members of all groups stood, but I don't think that there is any leaning when I make a special name. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson as the main motivation for the conclusion. So, at the outset, I want to commend and thank the move for the suggestion that a cluster of ideologies and how divisions can promote and strengthen the environment of innovation and progress. According to one report, cluster policy is designed to shape the way of work with the growing innovations and economics around Iceland. Official cluster policy can promote the cooperation of science and employment in behalf of valuable creations, resulting in increased production and prosperity. I often say that innovation is not a luxury but a necessity, and the belief that we have worked progressively to make innovations in Iceland sustainable and powerful. That's what we've done, including. with a innovation policy for Iceland, with a Korean, a innovation fund, to promote the development of the index funds, with Lóa, innovation grants for the region, by making room for foreign experts to work in Iceland, thus strengthening the network, with further sources for the pension fund to invest in the indicator funds, and by continuing to have mental innovations in the pancoca. All of this is supported by art policy for Iceland. Through a cluster policy, we have tools to deal with basic innovations on the grounds of those who work on projects anywhere in the country. It is part of the overall re-evaluation and integration of the current innovations environment. It is also an important source of competitiveness, valuableness, and continued application to Icelandic employment. Clerical policy frames the roles of public and interaction and the cooperation of professional life, institutions, investors and university. In a powerful way, the Clusters connect all of these bodies, thus making the soil for innovation and progress of both fertile and powerful. It is the product of work that has been led by Ásta Kristín Sigurjónsdóttir, director of the Icelandic tourist mall. At the same time, the policy was taken in broad cooperation and cooperation with the grasslands of the industry and the number of people in the management system and, of course, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank you very much for their contribution. Clusterism has directed attention to government innovation policy until 2030, and scientific and technological policy 20200/2022. It also has many connections to the report of the Ministry of Presidency, Iceland, and the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the policy-makers of Iceland since 2019 and other policies and priorities established by the government in recent years. Of course, in the toolboxes of progress and parishion, there are many tools and methods of success, but cooperation within a cluster is more important. Clustering simply goes on to create a network and a business partnership based on human culture, technology, capitalism, and knowledge. Cluster is the motor force of innovation in the sector of which it is formed. Class speeds of development, working across different interests, breaking down traditional norms or processes. They prefer cooperation, but they thrive best, since competition between parties is rich and economics are automatic. Strategies provide a vision that by 2030 Iceland will be among the world's top countries in terms of sustainable development, competitiveness, and general interest according to all major indicators. In order to meet this vision, it is necessary to plan and coordinate the actions of all the people in the business world by participating in government, science, and university and research community, as well as new investors and powerful pioneers. To keep the course, it is important to increase the global work programme and the key indicators that indicate the extent, effectiveness and competitiveness and trends within each sector, so we simply know a better point position for each sector. Strategies are used in all major countries that Iceland compares with, in an effort to achieve a progressive restoration of employment and cooperation in innovation and technology. In Norway the government has promoted shopping activities as a symbol of Innovation Norway. Similarly, in Denmark there has been a powerful tool. It's interesting to see that the latest malls are even. in the field of environmental and energy technology, biotechnology, welfare technology, digital technology, financial technology, robotic and deforestation technology, game technology and creative programs such as film and music. All of these are articles of global innovation that deal with community challenges directly. The Covid-19 epidemic has changed the global picture and economic change has been apparent in all nations. To work simply faster and better, we need to deal with a changed basis and create new and better practice. It is important to think that a cluster policy is not about the government's leading or deciding what's going on or what's going to happen to all of them. The role of the government is to shape a future view and policy on the best way to promote innovation and create a framework that facilitates innovation and growth in companies and businesses. To do this, there must be knowledge from governments of innovation and the induction of innovation, both government and private, in public business. The management board is not at all expected to save market conditions for certain enterprises, sectoral and technical solutions, but they are responsible for the development of the market in a certain direction according to their policies, objectives and challenges. Government tools to support SMEs for this purpose include: for innovation and technological development, public funds provided through investment funds and public tenders. The premise of government success is that their institutions develop progressive ways of practice, flexibility, and cooperation across administration and authority in the same manner as that of shopping. Governments themselves can learn much from a cluster of activities. Strategies for shopping as tools for urban development are based on the official role it plays in building market failures and strengthening the infrastructure and ecosystems of innovation across the country. Regional cluster fusion may be a bridge to a strong innovation environment, access to knowledge and experience from international research and innovation activities, and application to global concentrations and partners. I have to say under this team that there's an amazing amount of fermentation and a lot to happen all over this country. Lóa, intensities, is really just a kontort to speed up and support this good trend. Structuralism includes a declaration of government views on clustering work as a tool for innovation. A respectable president. Here is the first version of a cluster policy for Iceland, and it is my hope and certain that it will be members of the broad chain of employment and government inspiration and support for good works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u98	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the report, and as a matter of fact, I thank you for this discussion. The central category stresses the growth and survival of the economy and wants to be used for activities that contribute to development and innovation. The media showed in action support for the subject discussed here by the entire Parliamentary Party's resolution of the preparation of the report. Similarly, we stress that industrial and technical education will be enhanced. Sadly, promises of these things have not been fulfilled in recent years, and they give evidence that needed improvement in these materials is to be expected. The report reports that cluster policy has directed appeal to government innovation policy to 2030 under the proposed New World War I, Science and Technology Policy 20202022, and multiple connections to the report of the Ministry of Presidency of Iceland and the Fourth Industrial Revolution, as well as to other emphasises that have been made in recent years by the government. Bear in mind that competitive conditions will lead to the outcome of valuable creation and prosperity. Key elements are the circumstances in which companies compete in the market, whether domestic or foreign rivals, production and innovation. The innovation lays the basis for increased production and for increasing production to strengthen competitiveness. The government again plays an important role in molding job companies so that they will have the highest competitiveness in the outside. The report says, with the permission of the president: To help achieve success, work together as a targeted way of building bridges and strengthening connections and synergies within innovation and employment systems can be described as a targeted means of achieving specific goals for innovation and growth. - Yes, Mr President, so many were there. I'm going to say that maybe the definition of the subject could have been approached in a slightly simpler, less-impressed way. A competitive spirit reflects the nation's capacity for valuables and plays a key role in its production. You can see this, for example. well in the fishing field, where fewer hands are more valuable than before to the extent that international attention has been given. Increasing production promotes long - term prosperity in nations. It is important to check whether an enterprise within the partner sector has active class support. Enterprise cooperation is a key factor in their success and the importance of economic clusters has been demonstrated. Classes give opportunities to increase production and innovation, leading to increased competitiveness and greater prosperity. The economics are then reprogramming the key elements of society such as health and school systems, cultural and welfare systems. The point is not that the state will begin and create something. Rather, it will be a successful backseat who supports the driver and reads the map just to prevent error. We can see that in Icelandic commercial life, such as fishing, geologic, health - related services, and tourism have been formed in the fishing field. These are all cases of shopping that seem to be self - induced. Governments need to be careful not to work against the economy through unwise rules and over taxation. Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to highlight the main focus of the Central Party in this important matter class: 1st That the principle will be made easier and more efficient for the benefit of professional living. 2. That it is particularly important to support SMEs and make it easier for them to compete in all areas of life, where less rule work is important. 3. Rather, we want a regular work that makes things easier for us to develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u99	Mr. President. We're here on important issues, for the present and for the future. Thank you very much. Minister for providing the report and all members of the staff. It is a joy to know that this policy is now in progress, and it is likely that it is as important to Icelandic society to be well maintained on the issues of innovation. This is also a matter that the council took the initiative to take, and it is reason to rejoice that it was followed. New creation has the power and magic to create new methods, new products, and increase competitiveness. As noted in the report, cluster policy is used to point out methods and measures to speed up economic growth, which we must now pursue. To do so, we need to make good use of our shopping work - to promote cooperation and motivate others to create new opportunities for conversation. Mr. President. Clustering can be used as a driving force for future business projects but also to speed up changes. In this way we can use a cluster to lead evolution across the industry, which is a key element. In this way we can draw knowledge from different articles, from both employment and educational activities, in order to create something completely new. The world is changing rapidly, and we need such classes so that we can contribute to a healthy ecosystem of innovation, a global competitiveness in which all must participate; government, university environment, business, pioneers, and investors. One point to this report is that there is a need for a full-scale work programme and key rules. Measures that indicate the extent, result, value generation, competitiveness, and development of each sector at a given time. Thus, measures such as number of jobs, number of enterprises, export values and overall well-being measured would be measured on a regular basis. The report suggests that there will be a common standard of employment, which I think is very urgent to be made at once important that we have a clear view of the entire ecosystem in order to make informed decisions, especially when problems arise. I hope a minister is ready to start such work already, but this is something that has been discussed over and over again in the Senate hall, unfounded. Mr. President. The role of the State in creating innovation is of utmost importance, and it is equally important that government agencies develop progressive ways of practice, flexibility and cooperation across administrative and authority areas in the same way as done in a cluster business. We need to give our institutions such space so that we can work more together and provide more support for innovation within the state line than we have been doing. Mr. President. There are many more things I would have liked to include in this discussion, but I would like to finish my case by referring to the importance of the direction of the one being presented here for discussion and making it properly but not just to be placed in a drawer and stored there as too often would like to happen. To do so, we need to get a forward plan and financed it. So I ask the highest. Finally, a minister: What is a minister doing to ensure this? [[The president calls.]] And the key question, of course, is: How should this course be introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u100	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister for this report and for those involved in this work. I think it's really important, because I was one of the tourists asking for this job. I'm going to thank you too. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson for the initiative he has had in this regard, but we senators have also met with experts in the field of cluster matter. Some have wondered: " What's a clock, and what does it matter? Is it just new and beautiful words about something we already know? It may be to some extent, but there are some areas in which enterprises are really involved. Then I'm going to say so, because there have also been occasions when these issues are discussed, that we are still talking about legal competition, i.e. The competition of enterprises that benefit everyone, of course, does not work against competitive laws. I also liked to hear it here at the highest. Ministers that we are not talking about the government's somehow deciding what to do with the job life, where it should grow up, and then put it in a particular direction. Rather, we are talking about the environment. We're talking about the environment in such a way that innovation and cluster methodology are simply a critical process that leads to innovation and to the development of such projects. I think this report is pretty good, and it reviews extracurricular experience as well as the important experience we have here at home. Our marine icicle is likely the best - known and is pleased to see that sisters, as it is called, have arrived in foreign lands. It is using the methodology used by seafood in many other places. I'd like to mention two projects in particular. This is a reference to the mapping of Icelandic commercial life. One of the points mentioned here is recycling and recycling. I've always talked from this chair about the importance of our system building up so that it's a real incentive for innovation, Icelandic innovation, into the economy and recycling. Then I'm referring to the important thing we can do here, which is rule. Our regulations need to be made so that they are motivated to work on these matters in the country. I specifically mention recycling because it gives me the impression that there is a huge opportunity for us. It is quite disturbing that we are exporting garbage to some kind of recycling abroad that we even do not know exactly who is. I encourage further attention to the cooperation of the parties involved in these matters. It could be a mollusk that could help us to adapt our orderliness. I'm also going to bring up the northern issue of this context because it's special to me. There are a lot of both companies and research workers here in one country and another working on Arctic policy in one way or another. In Akureyri, there is a clear example of a large number of companies involved in a service that can be classified in one way or another under the Arctic. And that's where I think the opportunities are huge. But now I may be doing what I was talking about at the beginning, i.e. that we politicians should not decide what to look at, that we should create the environment, make sure that the root of grass can come up with ideas and develop new ways. That is what really matters about our future treasure creation. I'll say the highest words. Minister here. New creation is not luxury, it is necessary. That's what we're always going to do. That is what the professional life needs to be concerned about. We also have to do that in the public sector. Class policy is important to further improve the soil on which innovation can build. We need to keep in mind that governments are not infringinging market conditions in the interests of certain enterprises, sectores, or technical solutions, but we have a role in breaking the market in a certain direction, aims, and challenges. I'm celebrating this course, and I'm saying, "What?" A senator who spoke before me: It is important that we use it too. This should not be merely a lovely shelf; it needs to be used for our continued work. It is also good to see that on this work other policies have been viewed, such as the innovation policy and policy of our Iceland and the Fourth Industrial Revolution. It is vital that we all speak together so that we are calming in the same direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u101	President. Good report, short word, and straight to the main item. I'd like to discuss a few things that need to be considered when making a policy. At first, the role of the government, as mentioned above, is to create a global situation for innovation rather than choose what to create and what to do or how public funds should be directed into innovations in certain areas rather than others. It must be based on a government's equal or general policy, e.g. Climate policy. When governments establish a general policy for development, it is not unusual for them to pass over, for example. a newborn situation. That would be, for example. normal for green innovations, along with the introduction of cluster policy. It must be asked about interaction with the government's overall policy development. Then I refer to the financial program covered by the Parliament every year. For example, in recent years transport plans have been developed. I've been a bit on a boat, a developing plan has been a bit on its own, and these plans have hardly been clearly connected to financial programs. It has improved recently, since people have been waking up just a little bit with regard to government laws on public finances and how to conduct government policy in a financial program. There you will need to contribute to the cost of profit analysis and priorities that each policy makes in its own area. And when we make decisions about funds, e.g. At a mall policy, they are so presented in a financial programme that they are transparent and accessible to both us senators and the citizens out here. On page 18. 11 The report mentions a few words that examples of regional clustering work are digital carpenters in many countries located within the core of the service and provide knowledge and services to a wide range of groups. The General has agreed on digital architecture, its structure, and the availability of all of them. Digital carpenters are operating in eight places around the country. Not much has been done, as I have seen, to fulfill the Council's policy of building digital carpenters for everyone. Despite the awesome policy, the conduct of the policy has not been so good. But there is a highly integrated impact on digital architecture and cluster policy. They create circumstances and access to specific technology and knowledge for all, not just for some but for all. Finally, the transformation and maping are spoken of as being more rapid. Recently, more rapid changes have been made, and nothing has slowed them down. As far as I'm concerned, the council and the government have responded too slowly to these changes. We are still a bit of an ancient person when it comes to reaching out for the technological progress that has taken place in the workplace.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u102	Mr. President. I'll start by thanking the highest. Minister for the story and this report, which I think is very important and important that we discuss it here and review our vision of this project. I'm not going to go to the report for a team, but I'm not going to go to a few things that I think are important to me. One way to create cluster policy is to create a cluster in a branch where the Icelanders can expect to be strong and bring something to the fore, or we as a community. It has been done exactly, as the list shows, in the report for the currently active clusters. On the other hand, I missed the list of special health malls that we would put on a bit of weight. Although there may not be much complex development work behind many of the solutions we have used in connection with the Covid epidemic and what we have developed, it has yet been found that Icelandic intelligent people and Icelandic health professionals have been quite effective in finding ways. Some of the solutions that humans have used are even setting foot outside. It can be of enormous importance, and that is one factor. Another cell I would like to see would be what might be called a special food mall, similar to a rough one. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has pointed out. It would be something other than the lot of agriculture and the ice around the seabed, where the scaffolding would be on the food component. There is something that we Icelanders can do so well and that for example, we may have a very strong connection with the sector we've been building up the last eight years, such as the tourism service. I've pointed out that in this connection we could cross over to form the energy sector and the innovations that have been there, and I've even been. pointed out that the green domestic energy we have in this country can be supplied to promote the European food industry through such trends and through such a cluster. In this area, we hear a great deal of opportunities, and we hear in the discussion almost every day of any brilliant intellectual figure who have found ways to promote food production, but it could be just a marvel if they were all talking each day and working together to reach better conclusions. You see, I think we should be able to get far beyond what we've done in being enough of our own food. I think there may be one of our sales at the tourism service. Finally, I would like to mention only a cluster of rural development, a greater look to them in the opposite direction of urban development, i.e. has declined, and men want to try to get to their feet, as is the case of Fragrers. There may also be opportunities to hold the settlement and to help people regain the demand for fragile areas, and such activities could come out of a most enjoyable way of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u103	Mr. President. Like other speakers, I want to start by thanking for this report. It's about important subjects. It is one of the things that are so important to all of us and about how we can produce progress in Iceland, how we can make our working lives more varied, how we can expand the export, how we can increase the value available in modern employment and how we can create a common wealth for society, good jobs, well paid jobs, etc. This is what we know, and we are trying to succeed. We've done a lot of good, and we've had very good results in chapters. What has mainly been our aggressor in my opinion on all these matters is that we lack some endurance, and we forget when things work out well in our basic professions or the most important sectors in society. It is important that we abandon that thinking, and, of course, a group policy can be part of it. This report is based on an action form brought here in a recent meeting year. I have to say, I've been slightly disappointed in the report. It certainly includes a number of things. A wide range of successes and definitions of various objects, such as ecosystems and class and etc. are discussed. Tried to be classed, they list examples of what would be good for humans to be working on. But what I find to be true of the lack of this policy, this is - this cluster policy is being developed on the basis of Congress resolution, etc., as stated at the beginning of the report, and, in fact, dropped the top. The secretary mentioned this as version 1. To tell you the truth, I think it's a very clever course. Picking up practical things that you would like to do is becoming wise. But I don't think it's too much of a question as to exactly what is involved in this course. What will the government do with the development of a mall? Are they going to do it with money? Are they going to do it with a lot of money? Are they going to educate people in this area? What exactly does the course involve? I can't quite grasp the truth. It's a little disappointing to me because I think there's an opportunity and I think this is a full repetition of the request itself, certainly a much more detailed and certainly had things taken together, but I feel that lack a little bit of a specific talk about things. If you like. considers the role of the government, says the permission of the president, on page 24. 16 In the report: The government's key to promoting innovation ecosystems can include funding... The production of public funds can increase belief in projects... You can also encourage... Then, in the same chapter, the president's permission continues: It is important to have a clear view of the role of private members and the role of the government and public partners in cooperation that continues with the needs of the economy. It is important that the objective of government support is clear. There is nothing to explain how they are clear. The purpose of this is good, class has proved to be good in many parts of the world, but I have to say, this has led to some disappointment. But I also want to be positive, and I'm going to finish this on a positive note and say, "It's a good step. It's a good start, let's say, but it's so far from being something at least. In my mind, we may be classified as being a complete guide in this matter. I think those who read this and work in class, or think about setting up a mall, get pretty little out of reading this document. [[The president calls.]] But better men are better off living, and I'm convinced that the best is the best. A minister will consider this and wind away quickly from making this policy clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u104	A respectable president. I'm celebrating and thanking your report. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers for the shape of cluster policy, a cluster policy that is subsequently implemented by the approved Synodic arrangement. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson with others. Clustering is a common factor in innovation and employment development and promotes the competitiveness of companies, sectores, and nations. Classes can be the driving force of innovation. It involves different people and makes new ideas. Official cluster policy, therefore, can be a part of meeting government vision and policy on sustainable development, competitiveness, and general prosperity. The report reviews what group activities can be achieved. Afterward, I expect a clear view or plan of how governments can encourage or support cluster service. It is noted that cluster fusion support can be a tool in the development of urban development and that it has the official role to bridge market failure and to strengthen the infrastructure and ecosystems of innovation across the country. This is exactly what the representatives of the country have called after the last month, along with the global review of official support for innovation. V.E.G. Minister. The introduction of cluster policy can strengthen the infrastructure and ecosystems of innovation across the country. A respectable president. There are already digital carpenters, a variety of cooperative buildings, and a national network. Often, a small amount of additional parbytes are needed to activate the drive there. An example of the need for digital development is the presence of workers with good knowledge of the equipment that has time to monitor and develop work methods in cooperation with other carpenters and with the job. It is therefore happy that the government has now established its task management, which will lead to technical development and cooperation in the coming years. It will be exciting to see more of our policy returning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u105	V.E.G. President. We're here to review the travel, industrial, and innovation reports on the development of cluster policy. I'd like to thank the Ministers for the report and the discussion that we have here on a cluster policy. It's based on the interpretation as a matter of fact. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is the first transporter. We're all in the Middle East on this matter, so we celebrate. I have to say, as it is, that I follow everything that promotes employment and building, I'm not talking about if it will promote urban development. National Parliamentaries and I often talk about the development of urban development in the country. Everything that appeals to our lives depends on employment. It's just that way. I am now a bit of an ancient thought, and I have been trying to figure out what a lump is and was gulping it from here to here for further enlightenment. It has also been published in talks, and this report tells you that such activities can contribute to the development of employment and innovation. What a cause for joy that is! It has been shown that we have not been able to, as far as much has been discussed, with the development of industrial and technical studies except to a limited extent. There we need to take courage. Much is lacking in them because they are rapidly developing in the technology world. Because I'm referring to the country, there's something called procreation, construction, and the support of fractured communities. I have always felt that the word "scrap " was based on a little disparaging, not upbuilding. I'd rather have called it based on the offensive. There is more incentive for this than to talk about fracture prevention based on it. Also, to limit the definition to 500 or less communities, more than a few people are in trouble. I just wanted it to come out here. As I say, I welcome this report. I hope we don't attach too much to certain concepts that look good in print, but forward, it's fast enough for the development of jobs and innovation to go as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u106	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate this report, and I'd especially like to commend you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the initiative in this case. I disagree that the public doesn't belong and is not a part of the mall, and I don't think we should be shy about it. I believe that now a bit of the state is standing up to shape its policy slightly clearly, so that I use that word, and have practical and real suggestions. Otherwise, this report gives me a high degree of goals, and it gives evidence of modernism and that I find a strong view of professional life and human life, in fact, as it can develop. Me, just like a what? paritaprevir Ísleifsson Icelessson, only scratched me in the head over one of the monasteries and rolled it over me a little bit. It's like this, with President's permission: To help achieve success, work together as a targeted way of building bridges and strengthening connections and synergies within innovation and employment systems can be described as a targeted means of achieving specific goals for innovation and growth. There are quite a number of nouns here, but it makes sense, and in this brief lump, there are three passwords that I would like to present in my short case, i.e. ◯ Methodology, ◯cyre, and the genetic system to be used. The first word, ◯ Methodology, illustrates the approach of a cluster policy and indicates that handing does not control the development of events, as it has been in some cases, but is a targeted view behind what should be done. This may be one of the main problems in Icelandic employment, i.e. lack of clear vision and targeted sector development policies and a small amount of opportunities to be offered like silencing or lottery power. The latest is the blessed fur that was found recently and always spoken of as a lotto report in the media, but not much less that we found it because it was searched in a targeted, highly advanced way by scientific and advanced means. The second word is ◯cýrHow's it all turned out to be? This password describes the methodology of cluster policy. When successful, it is the date of many articles and businesses, and it mixes with different thinking and method of solving issues. Business life is not viewed as a collection of different and separate articles that can be handled even in the process but as a means to promote their blending and contrasting with one another. It promotes creative thinking. At last, it has become a system of living and life. It describes a cluster policy that looks at nature and how its ecosystems function when everything is done, and different species can live together in fertile harmony. Our future depends on whether we will prosper in creating a career and a life of human life based on green emphasis and creative thinking, under the guidance of diversity, knowing that small things are beautiful, and that our job life can then look like an Icelandic fragility, where it thrives alongside species such as mountain draughts, bloodbergs, blue clocks, pitiole Island, mouse eyes, and lamb grass.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u107	Mr. President. Clericalism in itself is a fine price, but it does not solve the bigger problem, i.e. That the national support system for the various sectors of the economy is kind of a shotgun approach. That is not a well - founded goal. There is no guidance, no successful incentives, not even industrial policy that leads the lines on which the professional roads are expected to be heading. I'm not putting new criticisms on the table, I'm repeating myself. I have said a few times before that professional development is not limited and random but would have to be a sort of rifle approach in which the government and commercial conversations decide the policy and targets that are such, and they decide what their goals are and then come in as a means to ensure that the economy meets the target. There are many ways to achieve this, and this report will only take it in the right direction, and it is positive. But I just think it's important that we don't think too much when the bigger picture is missing. The picture is still too sick. You can talk about positive developments, e.g. A digital factory that has been approved for its policy here at the General Assembly, and that's fine. I may have a story in it. But now we're here a few years after these digital carpenters were approved and the overall policy has not yet been established. Yet, that is a lot to wait for. In any case, whether we are talking about digital carpenters or other forms of mechanism in our economy, there is so much opportunity that we are totally at the limit of taking advantage of ourselves, but then there is some corruption that prevents us from achieving something far more successful than we have been. I'm not going to get very detailed into certain aspects of the report. That's a good price. It's on the right track. It's an introduction into a bigger discussion. But I just want to stress that the bigger discussion is over. There's a big part missing. They need industrial policy, they need a complete target, and they need some kind of a stronger recuperator. We must always reevaluate things, where the heat and weight of the government are going to run into professional development, how we are going to achieve the goals we set for ourselves and how we are going to make sure that there are more exports, more valuable jobs, and more valuable productions, etc. I'm just saying, we have to stop the shotgun needle, pick up the rifle needle and hit the target.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u108	Mr. President. We'll discuss a cluster policy here. It's not a new word, but the main point is that the content is behind the cluster policy. It is very important that the public against a long future policy on how they want to see the development of innovation in the land. We know that practical local knowledge enriches our job life. We know that. Over the course of time, increased emphasis has been placed on the usefulness of marine soils and on various other aspects in sustainable terms. There's been an error on this basis in cooperation with the investigator, university, individuals, and the government. So it is important to bridge the gap between different employment partners, which increase knowledge production within and between different sectors. The purpose of such cooperation includes building up a job life and increasing the value of each region with special emphasis on sustainable and green solutions and innovation and high-tech technology. It's all about fermentation here in Iceland, but public people need to be responsible for this work as well. For the first time, a cluster movement has been introduced, as was suggested in the government covenant. This cluster policy has been developed in cooperation with a number of parties and is well connected with innovation policy and the policies of the Scientific and Technical Council. This group of activities is designed to help achieve the aims of local knowledge development and use of local knowledge. Classes have been developing in many parts of the country, and they can be adapted to local circumstances. I think the class that has just started, both in the case of sea clusters, tourism, and geologic services, is an example of success in these materials. Orchidea, in the South, co-worker of national activation, the Southland community society, the National Institute for Agriculture and Agriculture Ministry, provides an example of good innovations in energy-related sectors and in high-tech food production. Then there is Eimur, who is a cooperation project on Europeanisation, North Energy, Húsavík Energy, Company Association, and employment development partners in the north. This cooperation is to improve the efficiency of energy resources in that region. Both of these tasks agree with the concept of the recycling system, the less waste and sustainable use of resources, and the demand of the current environmental and sustainable future. Clustering is well involved in increasing knowledge, whether with a strong national cluster or with an international cluster that opens doors to international research work and cooperation in that area. The work I mentioned is in common that those who trust in the very role of their policy to protect from marketing failures and to strengthen the infrastructure and ecosystems of innovation in the country. Worldwide, progress is being financed by public funds. Officials must endure and stand firm for a green future and new solutions for the future. I don't think it's to underestimate the importance of the government and public people being molded in the policy we are going to build up in a sustainable way for the future in the innovation of the country, for the benefit of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u109	V.E.G. President. The one standing here has great gratitude in mind. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the report and commend her return within the available time frame. It has often been forgotten, it is not always what it happens. I think this discussion is amazing. There are two things that are prominent in it, the role of the State and the other. This report has the exact quality of what the Constitution proposal recommends, vision and policy, it does not involve. I thought it was the highest. A minister of the introduction to the report is understanding, and this is most important to me. This is a stage on a road trip. It takes endurance and patience to get this work done. A lot of mapping and diagnostic work has to be performed. I've heard of it. They need endurance and patience. I proposed the Council of Congress five times here from the 144th legislature, for the first time in 2014, then seven years. It was finally for a flat year, 15 minutes before Covid, that the proposal was adopted at the General of March 12, with the help of all members of the council members of the General Assembly. It may be easy to say later, since the world is on its way out of Covid and into a new green, digital, creative economy, where innovation and cluster teaming can make a difference, and public cluster policy can become a key theme for all innovations. The initiatives we address in this report need to follow closely, and as with any policy development, it is policy, vision, aims, and a strategy to follow up and follow up with it. It's a constant job. I'm here to establish the role of the government and the government because we are here with the mall that has been introduced into the report in a particular process of development, and we are behind us in the process of development if we compare ourselves with other nations. This is what I need to promote, and it has been said in this discussion: "How should we use the support that has been built to support a group that is self - fueled? We know that story from Europe and the nations that have gone further. Perhaps the most important thing is to look at a world mall that we have to face up to and acknowledge that in the realm of innovation, public and professional cooperation must be developed, thus building opportunities. Classes have long proved their value as the most powerful tool to increase the competitiveness and employment structure of large and small enterprises, which is exactly the key factor and target of the European Union; production, economic growth and class. Classes function as drives and speeds on all innovations. Of course, employment has long ago seen the opportunity to give and be. It has been a distraction for us, the public and the government, how vital and how important it is that the public and the job life work together with the devices that hatch and receive the multiple effects of that cooperation. This is a well - known failure in many fields and in both directions. Tregs that were in many parts of the annual formal clusters of countries that have figured this out have already taken the step, have already developed public cluster policy. It's all taken care of in the report, that's fine, without long speaking of it. It's important. We don't always have the attention. Our attention is not covered by long, mutilated reports containing a number of terms, and many of the terms here are certainly foreign. Now, the work needs to be done to frame the ideas presented in the report and map out the sample and map out the cluster environment better and the possibilities. This requires planning and planning of the administration and availability of the supportive environment, which parties and existing funds would provide an environment and in what ways. In such mapping, I would stress the development of a national community plan and application plan and a cross-cutting approach with other instruments, such as known elsewhere. Here you can also draw to the highest. A minister has provided many fine work to do. I can name a recent project, such as Crime and Sturdy Crime, Green Dragle and Green Industrial Gardens, and it's all very good for this environment and it's to be commended for it. Now's the time. I could stand here much longer, but I think the job behind the report is good too, how was that job done. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank the staff who worked for the highest level of work. Minister to report for these workshops, consultations and working groups and to encourage the highest levels. A minister to continue to accept the innovation as she has so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u110	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for a very good discussion of this policy and only include the core point of this matter, which is that clustering work is about creating a network and a business partnership based on human resources, technology, capital and knowledge. It's simply a tool. We don't have a new invention. We are not taking sides in some particular sector. This is a tool to advance. It's an accepted tool that's about to work very well, and it's basically a partnership. Of course, there are many versions of it. In fact, a so - called hyperbole is all at once; the private sector, the university community, the government, the pioneers, the capital or the investors. That kind of mixture is super-strong to advance. We are in a conversation with the Association of Shopping and Service and VR who have worked together to be able to deal with the changes ahead of time when the digital transformation that will have a major impact on many groups. It is a question of how governments can support it. We've got a lot of action we've done, we're in the process, and we're on a schedule, that hangs out with what's going on in this cluster policy. It was earlier that we were little in the construction of a digital carpenter. This is certainly not true because we are making contracts in many places, and it has to do with much regional clustering work that is opening up all over the country. These examples of regional clusterry are reviewed as well as some of those that already exist. All I needed to do was convince myself that the State had such a great role in molding cluster policy. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson had a talk about it. But it may also be because you can sense how many politicians go to the point of becoming a member of the State because neither is it true. Clarify work and building on it does not exist and falls by the extent of the State's involvement, but the State certainly has a role. [[The president calls.]] Rather, experience has shown that the results of shopping work are the driving force and commitment of the private sector. [[The president calls.]] In the foundation, it's all about cooperation. This policy is perfectly clear to me, but it is certainly a work to do as the policy shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u111	A respectable president. There is a number of problems, for the committee's opinion is so far off in this important and remarkable matter. I will run through the main events, not the review of the Commission, which is very well understood in the 12 or 13 - page committee. Rather, I will focus primarily on the changes made by the greater part in the bill. So it's a bill for a song on changing children's law, No. 76/2003, with subsequent change in the child's residence. The committee has discussed the matter and received to her meeting with Heiða Björg, Snær, Árnason Eydal, and Soffía Felixdóttir of the Ministry of Justice, the Helgi Samúel of Iceland's Social Advisor, the Guðnason of the Children's Social Affairs, Indriði of the University of the Karen States, Benediktsdóttir Pálmadóttir, and Ingvi Sjörk of the Childhood, Lúðvík and Júlíusson from the Anna Islands, Pálsdóttir Þórhallsdóttir's Dögg, and Steinunn of the Church of the Church of Iceland, from the University of Bergmann, from the National Institute of the National Social Services of the National Social Services of the United States, Thecals of the Nationality of the Nationality of the United States, the United States, the European Union, the United States of the United States, the United States, the Valgerður Rún of the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of the United States, the United States. The Committee received reviews from Iceland's Children's Association, Children's Health Organization, Association on Parents Equality, Social Affairs at the University of Iceland, Iceland's Social Advisory Association, National rights Association, Developmental Services, Lúðvík Júlíusson, The Union of Iceland, Skatti, the County Council in the capital area, the State's Insurance Office, Children's Office, Western Island and Iceland. The bill suggests changes in children's laws that deal with parental authority in order to negotiate the transition between a child's population and its principal right effect, to clear up the law on child survival and child participation, and to clear up the steps of a child. Here are some pages of the main topics mentioned in this article. However, I would like to discuss what took quite a while and require some overcrowding, i.e. the part of this matter all about disabled children. In the treatment of the matter, it was noted that the importance of disabled children, in effect, had the same opportunity to live in both parents'homes and would not be discriminated on the basis of disability. This could lead to limited association of a child with another parent because of the lack of needed tools or the need for special service because of disability. It is important that children receive all the necessary services and support in the homes of both parents, whether it is a home, a home, or a community. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that parents who share a collective custody plan, whether they make a moving contract, have constant access to information on their disabled children. The majority agree that there is a special need to consider the situation of disabled children in this context and that it is important that laws and rules be reviewed as soon as possible, including those who are disabled. to make sure that this group of children is properly associating with both parents and using the resources the bill has. There is therefore a need for a change in the strength of a tool if it is permitted to accept one of the devices of each type into both the child's household in a divided home. However, there is a need to evaluate the extent of the changes and the help tools that such adjustments should take place primarily. It becomes clear that there may be considerable cost. The majority also points to the September 2019 aid report. One of the suggestions of the group hides even. in particular that the directives and the definition of help tools will be revised in accordance with the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people and will highlight additional regulations requiring review and harmony. In view of the above, the more important part is that a rule by law be revised, which means that children and parents can use it from the beginning, regardless of their status. I'm not going to do any further on the chemical deduction of the Committee. Rather, I'm going to move on to the changes made by the rest of the section. They are subject to the termination of the contract of the switchage of a child, i.e. b-joint 6. ... anda law of lawhouses and dwellings, number five. 30. g. "B" number 5. 30. g. The bill comes in, including... so that either the home or the home of a child can be moved away from the country unless Iceland's National Registry has received notice of a loss of the contract or a decision to change the residence. The committee was told that during the transfer from Iceland to other northern states of the Northern Convention on Public Regitation. According to the contract, it is the import state that makes a registration decision based on the law that counts it. When the import countries report a transfer of subjects, the export system is ordered to modify the registry accordingly, provided they are enrolled in the import country. Therefore, the confirmation of the withdrawal of a new contract would have to be made available to Iceland's National Book before moving from Iceland to other northern countries. In view of the greater part, it is appropriate to suggest a change of 6. And number 5. 30. g. the bill and make it clear that a changing child's residence contract will automatically fall apart if another parent moves abroad. One report with the bill shows that if a child's parents live in their own country, the basis for a divided farm is out of place. Thus, the majority of it seems reasonable to assume that the switch-off contracts will be replaced in this situation without the intervention of the county in particular having to confirm their departure. However, the majority of the rights to another parent are forbidden to take a child out of the country without the other parent's consent if a child's custody is common. If there is a agreement between a transitional child and a second parent, it is not right for the planned move of the parent from the country to be expected to be specifically requested for the deportation of the contract. However, in the case of parents or parents who do not wish to be expelled, a contract will automatically fail regardless of what country the parent may move to. It has to be estimated that the Northern Community Protocol is primarily affecting the history of registration, not material rights. According to the change the greater part suggests, if one parent moves to any of the North countries, the switch-out agreement may be considered automatic when a parent requests a registration in the import country. Iceland's national registry will then change national registration to fit in with this country when the import countries report a transfer. On the other hand, if one parent moves to a foreign country, the contract can be considered to be a spontaneous failure when the parent announces the National Book of Iceland for transport. Then there is the possibility that the spontaneous discontinuation of the contract of a new parent's move will strengthen the views involved in the possibility of an illegal removal of a child from the country. The child's right to communicate as far as 8 and 13. The bill, 8th and 13th. The bill advises that a child should be able to communicate in accordance with his or her age and development. The committee gave the view to speaking in terms of the child's right to express himself at the right time. Eight and a three. The bill would not be fully in line with the wording of Article 12. United Nations children's covenant. According to the children's covenant, a child should be able to express his opinion in all matters of defense but to consider the child's opinion on the basis of his age and development. Thus, it is not dependent on the age and development of a child whether it is possible for a child to comment on matters in his or her case. On the other hand, there was a view that the wording was in harmony with the children's covenant. The right of a child to express himself should in itself be the result of a 1st statement. Child-in-law and 12th degree. the children's covenant. The majority, however, points out that younger children have not always been allowed to express themselves, so the greater part seems to be a reason for sharpening the wording even more than is suggested in the bill. The majority consider it important to ensure the right of a child to communicate, and by continuing the wording with the children's covenant, the right of children in this context can be increased. According to this, the majority suggest a change in wording on paragraphs 8 and 13. The bill. Then we'll make a change of suggestions at the 22nd floor. 3 mg. The article states that parents can request confirmation of a recommendation at 2 mg. the law. This is only true if a child lives in a permanent home with one of his parents. However, the law seems to have suggested that, as stated at 55 C.E., parents can also settle for a court case of cohesion. child law, end of stress may come to the head of a judge in certain cases. If a pact of cohesion is concluded, it is best to resolve the case in a judicial way. To make it clear that parents can also make peace with them in the process of subsidies, a greater proportion of the items contributes to the adjustment of the material. Also, a greater proportion of the items contributes to a change of 24. The principle in this article states that if a child lives in a permanent home with one of his parents and parents decides the exchange of cost of living, the businessman may decide that the parent with which a child does not live is not able to cooperate with the child. The majority points out that parents can either distinguish between the change in cost of living and one of them choose to demand a recommendation or that parents agree that they will be paid, but they will consider the amount of money. So the majority suggest that the word change of the set should be in line with the other changes proposed in the bill, so that instead of the dissociation analysis of the cost of staging will result in an apocalyptic analysis. This suggests that the extra portion is going to make the shoth to the 2nd word. 1.mg. 57st. A child's law will be removed. In other respects, the time limit for making a decision on the part of the coercion remains the same. The greater part is particularly responsible for the decision of a child's development or the judicial decision of a child's treatment. Code two. 64th par. The law applies when changing the existing parental contract for the change of straddling, support or judicial action. With the above adjustment, there will be a better sync between the regulations 57 and 64th. g. The law in this respect. Then, too, we make adjustments, or rather, a new 28. Code 64. gr. child law more closely establishes the requirement to require a change in the existing contract or a judgment check. That's the deal with regulations 65th. about a change of decision or judgment. The majority suggest a change in 1 mg. 64th par. The law intended to stipulate all parents'contracts for performance, dr. 55. ..... already negotiated the exchange of costs due to the extension or negotiated by cohesion. However, if parents differ in the change in child development, the businessman under child law can only determine the payment of cohesion, no matter what kind of agreement is already available, cr. 1.mg. 57st. The law. One condition of 1. 64th par. The law is that circumstances have changed considerably. It should be noted that under such circumstances parents can identify whether the exchange of costs due to the child's progress has been established in the way the contracts are required. If not, it may be a reason to make adjustments and decisions rather than to pay dues. Two. 64th par. The Act of the Law states that a decision on a sentence taken before the requirement will not be changed unless absolutely reason has led to that. The changes the most part contributes to 2 mg. it is also intended to set up regulations 64. all parents'contracts for alimony are applicable. Fifty-five. This means that when a change in the existing contract is required it is not to be decided back in time unless specifically indicated. Comments accompanying a bill for child - law show that it needs to be explained why a summary of the procedure was not made earlier and that it is understood that the criteria for changing in time are very strict, cr. (b) What are some of the reasons why Jehovah's Witnesses are here? The same is expected to apply. However, it should be taken into account that there is a difference between agreements on the exchange of cost of living and negotiations in the collection process. A parent requiring changes in a confirmed contract has thus been able to collect a child's contribution from the other person's hand. If a parent insists on a decision to replace a commitment agreement, it may be necessary to look into a time-separated partnership, whether and how long there is a need for someone who has failed to perform a progressive performance. Finally, that change is on the 30th floor. The report of the IRS pointed out that there would be a need for a sharpening of the income reduction in the b-coma 7. 30. g. The bill, moving in agreement with the report on the bill that the calculation of income reduction would be separated by the parent's family position at the end of the year. The majority consider these changes to improve and contribute to the change in content. Finally, I just want to mention an overall review. The effect of the transitional and its implementation on genders and groups is not completely understood, and the majority of these factors, including some of them, are referred to. for a discussion of the management of child-impairment in changing habitats. In spite of the above, the more part feels that the bill becomes a law where it includes needed changes. It has previously been observed that the greater portion is a reason for child - law to be subject to a full reexamination. It is important that within three years of the agreed bill, a review is made, particularly of the transitional and its implementation procedures, such as by calculation of children's improvements, but the rights in this setting have to be taken into account for more details, including In view of the laws on sexual autonomy and the actions involved in the forward and adaptability of things. The majority suggest that the children's law will be added to the provisional terms and also suggest that a minister of justice introduces the results of a total review no later than the 2024 fall council. In other respects, the greater part contributes to technical changes and is not intended to influence the subject of the bill. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be adopted with the adjustments made in a special Senate document and followed by the Senate case. I want to know why. The members of the Council of Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnugasdótttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Katla Hólm Þórhildardóttir are part of the majority of them with certain warnings. Senators are expected to make an explanation afterward. Under this opinion, the writer of this report, Páll Magnússon, and why. Councilmen Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, in advance, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Katla Þórhildardóttir Thorhritirdóttir, in advance, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir of Aarna, and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, daughter of Gunnnlótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u112	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, chairman of this matter, for a clear review. I'm going to discuss the matter from my point of view and from those who are warning about this good thing. Not all of the committee is on the case, but a majority of the committee is signing under the committee's opinion, but there are three of us who are alert to the matter. Besides me, it's why. Councilmen Guðmundur Andri Thorsson and Katla Þórhildardóttir Thorjörgdóttir I believe that we have a situation here that is both good and needed. Of course, the law is not measuring here for any new truth. This is a setting up for specific family shapes, the circumstances of families that are, of course, already there. This has already been developed, and in this context, I would like to point out a case from a development surrounding the ideologies of twice the children's legal home. So that the obvious thing is said, which should be natural, in view of the fact that I am on this committee party, I believe that this work has been done well and is acceptable to this matter. However, I suggested a specific adjustment proposal for discussion and comments that were presented during the treatment of the matter at that time. A full board of directors. Here we are creating a set frame for children who, of course, already exist. With the evidence that this work has had a long turn, has taken its time, natural, so here is a considerable rule of action, and with reference to the fact that this bill is not to be taken into effect until January 2022, the time was truly upon us to overturn the largest knots of our lives. And I was at the front of thinking that a certain group of children should be left there and that my concerns would not diminish as they went. I consider it to be obvious, and refer to it even. in the speech of the speaker of the case, the need to make some adjustments, along with the approval of this bill. This should have happened at the same time, should have guaranteed families of children who have certain disability the same opportunities as other children. It would have been right and normal to take that step now, with this bill, and I'm thinking that we're at least Based on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments In view of the desire leading to this bill, the problems listed above would have been well solved. Prosperity analysis and other activities are simply work that should have worked together, and data that the committee should already have had. Of course, I do not believe that there is sufficient payment, although I do not doubt that there is a time to correct this. But then I feel that it is not sufficient to let it be said that the situation of disabled children needs to be considered in this context, and I trust that changes will be made after we agree with this situation. We should have taken this step now and made this setting so that equalizing of children would be guaranteed. There is a need for a change in the regularity of reinforcements by means of tools so that children in a divided home are then assured appropriate equipment, or equipment, depending on the events, into both households. Along with these three warnings, a change in the motion of a child in a divided home under children's law has the right to serve in the same law as in a home where he lives, while being a child in a divided home under children's law, but having a home and a home for his own community, it should be appropriate for the service or assistance of both rural society to be otherwise met. Aside from the obvious interest issues of these families, I stop at the equality, and it's in me that there's a possibility here to go against a bill that leaves a distinct group in this regard. The plan is to make things right later, but none of us who are in the chamber have any assurance of when or how it will be. In that context, I would refer to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs has spoken a little about our systems talking, that the systems around children should talk together to ensure that the right children are carefully guarded. I'm here to believe that the bill, in the matter of this controversial show, is not exactly in the spirit of that ideologies. It is not in the spirit of the ideologies that because this issue has come from the highest level. A minister of justice cannot guarantee concomitant changes because they are in custody of someone else's highest degree. Ministers, Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Services. I'm going to be in the belief that there may be an end to this matter in the council so that our three in the smaller section will be agreed so that once this bill becomes a law, this group of children will also be under it. Other than that, I would like to say that in the treatment of the committee on this matter, it became clear, as it were, that we know, for example, that our members of the committee. not yet how this case affects the calculations of children's reforms. They are vague, and I am happy to make an assessment of them and then evaluate how their real families will be there, if the conclusion is that there is some unexpected effect on parents in this regard. In fact, there is also an experiment in the management and forwarding of other things, and I have spoken to the committee that I was concerned, when these economic realities have not been detected, that there may be some means here that may be less available to parents who, in some case, will be able to see that by the fact that half of the benefits are becoming more difficult. But as I say, it is included in a committee party, in that it should be seen and analyzed. There are orders for when this work should be done, and I'm happy about it. I'm going to finish my case by saying, as I mentioned at the outset, that this is a good case, but it's certainly a great disappointment that our work at the Committee has not led to the fact that the members of the committee who are on this committee are prepared to be with the three members of the council to close the case and cover families with disabled children who need equipment or help at both homes to take advantage of this and I would have felt that it would be much better if we had received a blessing to close it in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u113	A respectable president. While I welcome this bill deeply and deeply, I take my heart to the notice and proposal to make changes in my share of the committee on the issues of disabled children. Of course, that work should have taken place at the same time. It's shocking that it's obvious that you're not going to wear it. Of course, it's supposed to be a big deal. It occurs repeatedly here at the council that these groups are somehow forgotten as much as they should. We are members of the United Nations Children's Covenant and other important human rights agreements, and at times they simply fail to wear glasses when they sit down to negotiate bills. But I hope there will be some improvement in this matter. The case is in the ground of a very good, respectable president. That's an important piece of justice. It's also an equal case. The fact is, within the present system, fathers usually come to their senses. We talk a lot about equality between the sexes, the equality between mothers and fathers, and the groups that care for children and at the workplace, and other places in the community. To be trustworthy in this, we also need to watch over such things as this. It can be very damaging for people to run across the walls of systematic elimination. Under the present system, that's just the way it is. Of course, there is a completely out - of - date view that there is always some sort of ◯alpha-parent, that one parent is somehow more than the other. Of course, we know that in the community culture, it is a deeply entrenched thought that most often it is the mother. So change is needed, and this case goes only in that direction. Even though a parent's relationship may not work out for some reason and people may not see things other than divorce, it is in the vast majority of cases that people are interested in divorce their mate and not interested in divorcing their children. It's really amazing that it wasn't fixed long ago. Under the present system, it is so automatic that even if a person has a common custody, one parent loses the right to participate in his daily care role and in his child's existence. I'll take the example of a health presence. If a parent who does not share a legal home with his child needs to order a medical checkup, he or she is not on the page for the child, even if it is in common custody. Of course, it is hurtful and can even in some cases prevent people from trusting in one another to understand. This is great. I don't quite understand why it won't take effect until less than a year. That's a little long. This, however, is a change toward independence from people as parents. When we discuss such matters as maternity, fathers' breakfast, and mothers' leaves, we often talk about the importance of parental independence in the role of their child, that a parent can care for all the needs of his child, and that both parents have access to everything. It's a good thing, and it's equal. So I rejoice deeply, but I again accept the word. senators who have made a short notice and who have made adjustments in their plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u114	A respectable president. I want to be like other members of Congress to welcome this matter and rejoice that it has come out of the committee. It was also recommended during the last assembly, but it was not possible to complete it by then. The fact that we are sitting here with committees gives me hope that we will be able to finish this matter first because it is very important. I think we're gonna have to make sure that this council becomes legal. However, I would like to say, too, that I have talked about in this chair many times, using every opportunity to do so, which is not only the law itself and the strength that we make but also the work. When it comes to children living in two homes, parents who have divorced and shared custody, something is very wrong in our system. One is the code of law, and the other is the work. It is totally unacceptable that we are still working after some old system. A national record produced at its time something called a family number and likely never intended to be used as it is used today. Nevertheless, government agencies, banking agencies, insurance companies, and others on the market use this information from a national file, specifying the child under this family number. Family number is the oldest social security number in the home, and the fact that the insurance agency sent a letter to a child's legal home addressed to the oldest social security number in the home, perhaps not a parent, may be a spouse to another parent's guardian, and that information, of course, violates the child's personal protection. I have an answer here from the highest. A health minister where I asked about these factors. I think the problem is clear to everyone, but it just needs to be solved. Similarly, you know the discussion about taking your child to a bank and going to start a bank book, but you cannot because your child does not have a registered home in the same place as the parent. Nevertheless, the parent is registered as a parent. That's totally unacceptable, a respectable president. It doesn't have to be a law to fix this. It just needs to be fixed, and I know it. I know we're here with a case that we've taken care of as a national file, and I know it's a computer system thing. Hopefully we'll see a very soon change in that, and then the so - called family number comes out. But that is not enough, for anyone accepting information from a national file needs to be able to work with a new system and a new source of information. I use every opportunity related to children to point this out, since the examples are many. We often tend to, as in this case, to complicate it, because there are always some unique examples that are slightly different and that need to work with and complicate things further. Well, I guess that's why we didn't get this over with at the end of the last council. But I really hope that we can finish it now, because most things are relatively simple, and as a result, it is unacceptable how long the wait period is with a businessman after confirming it when parents get divorced and confirm the same view. We need to move faster. Then I realize that there are a lot of complicated issues. But, fortunately, the longest part is that parents understand in the best possible way and at least always keep the child's interests in check. We can talk about the child's rights. They're very important. It's, for example. It's very good to see it in this bill and this discussion here that they should listen to the child and allow him to express themselves, of course, depending on the development of the child and other factors. Others are the rights of the child, and we should always keep in mind what is best for the child and look for its vision, the rest being related to parents. How unacceptable it is when parents are actually limited in caring for their responsibilities! Parents are responsible for their children, at least to 18 years of age, and often a little longer than that, regardless of whether their parents are still living together or not. I still reiterate that we need to consider this. You can see how many complicated legs are going to be in these cases, because here we have a bill from the highest level. Minister of Justice. We have a new proposal that is actually hearing under the highest order. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, and I guess it's the most complicated issue of our transfer system and the tax systems that hear them under the highest order. Financial and economic ministers. But it's our job here to open up to these guys and make sure that we always take care of the situation so that the child's rights are guided and that parents have the opportunity to do what they have to do. At the same time as I hope we can finish this case, which is very important, I also want to encourage all of us to perform our surveillance roles so that the execution of the authority, the Ministry, and the institutions under them have tools and tools to work in accordance with the lawgiver's will, which, of course, is that people may not be discriminate if they decide to divide and they have opportunities to care for their parental duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u115	A respectable president. Listening to what has been so fun. Councilmen talk about the rest and the things we're dealing with the rights of children and how the system works, what we need and what we can do to change and improve. I thought about it after word. paritaprevir The Fats of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, whether we should not just burn the whole system and create a new one, hire experts who make models to work together. We're always digging deeper into some holes. And then we've got a great solution, but we're just thinking about the next ministry: Oh, no, now you've got us into a ball. It's a recommendation, and I think more people here at the Generals might think, " How can we fix this so that the future doesn't always be the same? ' Back to the bill and the change. I'm about to make a change of motion. For the members of the United States, the Trustees Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríð, Gunnunddótttir and Guður, Guðmundur, and Thorsson, the son of Thors, are very obvious because we feel that the right of disabled children is as much as the other children are. Their right is to have the services they need so that they can live with the living conditions that all children deserve. I am optimistic about it going to work, and I am optimistic about the acceptance of the change proposal and the review of regulations and regulations within different plots and how to secure this service right away. It should be available in January 2022, if I understand it correctly. I want to say something. The Goddess' concierge Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir. We feel sorry that it wasn't done at the same time, and we don't fully understand why it wasn't done. It was time enough to do so at the same time. The need to do so was brought to the attention enough time to allow everything to be possible. It is both frustrating and sad that the committee still has to make a change because it could not be done at the same time. This is a small point in the large context of state conflicts and what we do here, but this is a natural huge element in the everyday affairs of disabled children and their families, and it is very necessary -- I know that the matter is Icelandic, I'm not going to do it in English, pardon, honorable president - to have the rights of disabled children at the same level as children who don't have children. There was no more today on this matter than for us to burn the system and build it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u116	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, with a change to the bill to correct a change in consumer law and other laws. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, visitors and reviews from various sources were received. The bill suggests that the Commission's projects on the field of product security, public market care and measurement will be moved from the consumers lab to the Homing and Managing Agency, and e-mail identification and trust services projects will be brought to the post and telecommunications agency. The majority, however, indicate that at least at least an increase in the activities of the Homing and Mobilization Agency is being performed. why we should reexamine her name. The Committee's review points out that the Management Board's topic of electronic authentication and trust services for electronic transactions will be transferred to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, as well as to the distribution of projects. Then it is stated in a review by the Ministry that the Environment and Transport Committee has a review of a bill for Communications, a 506th case designed to replace laws on the Post and Communications Office. The majority of the EEA's environment and transport committees call attention to the changed work field of the Agency and consider it desirable to consider how its tasks are set up in the law of this committee. In the implementation of tasks at the NETC under the bill, the monitoring projects of consumer rights are limited. According to the Ministry's memo, there was an external adviser who was hired to conduct a field-of-view analysis for projects on the Agency's consumer rights. The aim is to reorganize a total number of tasks at the time of the analysis. A future view of the organization of consumer rights and institutions remains unclear. The Ministry of Business and Development has been advised to use the time involved in the implementation of the law to provide clearer lines in these materials. The majority stress that in the shape of consumer rights institutions, there is an emphasis on economic efficiency, increased quality and effectiveness in the interests of businesses and consumers. Mr. President. The bill suggests that the law should be accepted on April 1, the second. Clearly, though, preparation of projects between institutions will take longer. Therefore, the majority suggest that a validation is suspended on October 1 to 2021. Other proposed changes are technical and are not meant to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes provided by the Committee opinion. Under the heading, write why. The men of the assembly, who stand here, Óli the Björn of Kárason, and Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, and Bristur the son of Níelsson, and Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Þórarinn the son of Pétursson,
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u117	Mr. President. This bill contains the transfer of tasks from the Nettorium to other institutions. An article with the bill points to the conclusion that then the Navitors Lab is to be laid down, as consumer living will have to be a very small institution after these changes. By permission of the president, the report says in the bill: ▪ It is not expected that the consumer room will be laid down. Rather, it is still expected that consumer clinics will be assigned to their work in the field of consumer rights. The report goes on to say that this year there should be a review of various aspects of this project. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot agree with me that it is not a great consideration for the staff of the Navitors Lab to publish a paper with a bill to cancel their work. That's what I'm talking about. The senator did not agree that when big projects are being brought between institutions and organizations, this human aspect was very important, and how are the workers involved in the change? What does it want? A senator says that the highest. The secretary of consumers' affairs sent such a message to consumers about their jobs and their future through a paper with the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u118	Mr. President. I think that in general speaking, and it does not focus specifically on consumers, when it is being reorganized by the state's institutions with the intention of achieving and strengthening their economys, especially in order to provide consumers or individuals and, on the other hand, companies better and more efficient services, should be careful that it is not arranged to cause unnecessary uncertainty in the case of employees. However, it is clear and clear that their reorganization is being done in the area of consumer rights left in the consumer shop. The majority of the Committee encourages rapid, well - organized recovery. Now we do not know what the outcome will be. It may be wise, and it may be best for consumer rights to blend under, for example. The Contestant Control, with no way to announce it, or that the Neighbour Room will continue. However, it must be wise to consider the establishments of the State, with the intention of achieving a higher economy. Of course, it's just part of the eternal project. I also point out that the Nite Owl itself says in a review to the Committee that the Agency does not object to the fact that it is advisable to reevaluate in a regular manner of the administration of the institutions which carry out the legal and surveillance procedure in this country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u119	Mr. President. I don't think any human would object that the institutions are probably being reviewed. On the other hand, the conclusion and preparation of this bill are totally unacceptable, to say the truth. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not believe that prior to making such changes would have made it more wise to set up policies for consumer issues that have been called after a very long time. It's even here. A matter of concierge. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is the first transporter to, and its partners are from all categories, where this is exactly what we will discuss. The consumer organisation is concerned that the Agency's priorities with as large and different projects as it will be, and the Homological and Human Invasion Organization will, after this change, will be unremarkable and of little additive effect. these different assignments. There is no evidence that expertise in the safety of consumer products and services is achieved by transporting e.g. The safety of toys, bicycles, and snoops from the consumers lab, or electric devices as suggested. Well, maybe. A senator agreed with me and with the consumer groups that it is rather difficult to see the additive effect there is? They're at least not obvious. And what does it want? A senator wrote of the lack of policies that are building these changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u120	Mr. President. Of course, there are endless debates as to how things are best. I am absolutely convinced that the changes that are being made here are for the better and, for example, for the better. it is wise to bring the administrative projects in the field of product safety and the official marketing care to the Homing and Managing Agency, to a great degree that the activities of this institution and will be involved in furthering it. The same applies to trust services and electronic authentication. Of course, it's normal to be at the post and communications agency. It's going through the legalities of the Environment and Transport Committee, as mentioned earlier. It is clear that in reorganizing institutions, there are conflicting views. Our role here is to make a decision on the basis of their views. I say, I'm convinced that we're doing the right thing. I might have wanted to see that the current job would be longer, but I still think it's a good step. Here we are taking steps to carry out specific tasks that obviously belong to two other institutions, and they will be strengthened. [[The president calls.]] Then they shape the course from then on to the future of the Neytendians lab. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u121	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee study with a bill on bill to legalize the Navigator and other laws from the 1st smaller sections of the Economic and Business Committee, but a smaller portion of the Economic and Business Committee is the one that stands and represents the United States of the Committee. The first minor part is amazed that consumer minister provides the changes made by the bill without the development of a global conference for consumers. In fact, consumers in this country have suffered from a bustling and a lack of vision, as the consumer organization points out in their comments about the bill. The bill is a sign of a lack of preparation. No careful investigation or analysis has been conducted in this country and there is no better way to meet the needs for the future. No independent assessment has been performed on the activities of the consumer clinic or on the transport of projects from the Agency. Other Norwegian countries have a powerful consumer protection, and governments could look to their experience and carefully examine the pros and cons of setting up the office of an agent of consumer authority. For example, the area of consumer rights might be heard for such an office. Necessaries are very important and insist that they have a clear basis for the future. Unproved changes are least for the better. The financial and economic Commission's guidance on the unity of state strains that also apply to the transfer of projects between institutions has been ignored in the contract of the bill. The guidelines include making sure that the change is well prepared. The first step is to assign a group to make initial observation before making a decision. Work mainly involves considering the position, molding the future, setting clear goals on the change, selecting criteria, looking at options, identifying obstacles, and dealing with opinions. The implementation of tasks between strains usually follows both the pros and the defects that should be weighed against and assess for other alternatives. The changes should not be changed as a means of achieving other goals. The primary objective of the bill appears to be to reduce the number of government institutions. This may be a good goal in itself if, with the implementation of projects, you get professional benefits and better services or financial benefits without being placed at the table of the public's professional viewpoints and interests. The financial and economic guidelines also show that it is important that the Ministry immediately implements changes in order to eliminate uncertainty and to take special care with the human factor. You can always expect that there will be differences in viewpoints, and people will see both threats and opportunities in them. In order to improve staff cooperation, therefore, it is very important to get as much interest in the vision as well as in the goals they are going to set. The first minority feels that consumer minister has not studied the instructions of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs before being recommended for the bill, because it is in no position to suggest that consumers' clinic workers and with the bill's report are being promoted to uncertainty about the future of the Agency. The bill's report on page 18. 8: ▪ In place of one central government agency to protect the interests of consumers in one way or another, the task is to be moved to other relevant institutions. The aim of the review is to reduce the number of state institutions and to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of monitoring for employment and consumers. On page 18. 10 of the report states: ▪ A consumer's room is not expected to be laid down but is still expected to be done on consumer rights project. Thus, the consumer clinic can closely monitor the natural consumer rights legislation in accordance with recent changes in the Agency's surveillance by legislation on the change of law due to government cooperation in the European Economic Area on consumer protection, No. 21/2020. These projects are being reorganized by means of their possible application to another agency in 2021. This means that the Nettorium will be a very small institution. - Besides, the rest of the staff have been told that they won't keep their job because they're going to revise all of this. That's very reprehensible, Mr. President, of the highest order. Minister to send this note to the employees and this message through a paper with a bill. If the bill is approved, every task of a consumer clinic that does not hear directly under the consumer rights court will be moved elsewhere. Factors are made up of organizations that carry out different tasks. A smaller share of concern will be the consumer organization, which will focus on the development of a Housing and Engineering Agency being unscheduled, large, diverse, and slightly combined. The Navitors Association comments on this: The consumer organisation does not know about institutions in other countries that both provide housing loans and oversee the implementation of legislation with corporate instruments. Then there is a risk that consumers could be scattered around the system by the changes being proposed. The first minor part of criticism is that the overall policy barrier with clear vision has not been taken before the paces being announced by the bill. It is no other but a poor manner of conduct at the consumer agency's staff to promote uncertainty about the work environment and the security of the staff by means of messages sent by the Minister of the Committee by a bill. The first smaller part suggests that the case will be referred to the government, which immediately initiates work in careful consumer policies. Mr. President. consumers' priorities have always been ahead of us, and we can hardly accept the preemptive methods shown by these changes and transports of consumer services that are truly poorly planned. We are not opposed to being examined by governments and to the drop in government institutions if there is apparent benefits, both professional and public interests, as well as financial advantages. But we do not know what these changes will lead to. There's a bit of a trepidation going on in consumer affairs. A clear policy must be established in this category, and before it has been established, let us not be quick to scourging and throwing tasks forward and back into institutions where projects are very different and the synergistic effects are virtually zero in some cases. V.E.G. President. The best thing to do is to dismiss the case, so in the United States it is up to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u122	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a change to bill to legalize various laws involving consumer judges from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ásthildur Þórsdóttir Ásgeirsson and The Home of Karlsson by the Department kærunefnd Professional - and Development, og þjónustukaup of Brynhildur. News came from the International Habits Association, the Department of Stocks and Services, the Neighbour Associations and the Organization for finance. The bill suggests the adjustment of the arrangements made by various consumer ruling committees. The objective of the bill is that consumer disputes with financial companies, insurance companies, insurance companies, and realtors will be solved by approved judges instead of law enforcement agents. The changes made by the large part are as follows: In 1st. The bill is proposed to change the 14th paragraph of the bill. law on consumer judges, No. 81/2019, and proposed to state the off-limits of the approved decision-making and of the Commission's Committee of Products and Service under designated circumstances, including where there are issues to be treated or treated in the courts. The reviews given to the committee pointed out that nearly every case referred to to the panel heard the jurisdiction of the courts; thus, the wording of the law was far more extensive than the result of its objective. The committee received a memo from the Department of Professional Road and Development that agreed on the above indications. Having agreed with the Ministry, the majority contributes to a change in wording and the format of the law so that it will no longer be obligatory to dismiss matters simply because they are under the jurisdiction of the courts. Other forms of the greater part are technical and not intended to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st A- team 1st. put it this way: Before 1st. comes a new paragraph, as follows: Recognitions to the decision-makers and to the NTSB shall be dismissed as: a. Do not hear under their jurisdiction, b. the management, treatment or treatment of other approved or legal judges who have been registered by the minister and reported or a foreign ruling agent on the list of reported judges in non-convicted issues in the European Economic Area, or c. are intended to treat or have been treated in the courts. 2. Section 3. put it this way: Instead of the reference ▪1. mg 14th par. 2 mg. 16.4 g.s., c-join 2.mg. 17th par. The law says one or two. 14th par. 3. At Section 4. add a new letter, as follows: The headline of this article reads: Magistrates. 4. At the 14th. add: plus heading. Under the majority opinion, write why. Óli the Björn of Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Ólafur, Þór Gunnarsson the Þórarinn of Pétursson,
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u123	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law on the return therapy of loan institutions and stock companies. The bill's on the roof. 962, No. 570. The bill includes the implementation of the European Parliament and the Council's Directive on the level of insured debts on return and wear-off therapy. On the basis of the directive, certain requirements for action should include an increased priority over the general requirements. Then there should be a new priority group of submissives that are fairer than standard requirements. In addition, there are differing levels of capitalization and recessive loans. The bill reflects these rules, as well as additional guidelines on justice in various other requirements. A respectable president. If I go up to the additional rules on the bill and beyond the directive's contents, they're two. First of all, rules on justice require, according to bankruptcy laws, are part of the universal priority required by this bill. Second, I would like to mention additional guidelines on the level of justice required for the reasons not addressed in the directive but would not prevent additional rules of the rights of others to which they are being held. In view of the higher standards for priorities in the past decade, I stressed that such an arrangement could remain unchanged. At the request of the Ministry, the National Office of Iceland won the opinion of the increase in the level of rights of all accounts and the results of the bank were in accordance with my emphasis on the right to give priority to all centralities in excess of standard requirements. In this context, I would like to point out that the bank's arguments for granting any individual priority over general requirements in section 3.1 of the bill are considered. Therefore, the bill suggests that there will be a new scope for Europe's policy and a new priority for all the demands due to the introductions. Such priorities are, however, stratified, in which the requirements for assured living are the highest and the requirements for non-securesability are the most legitimate. These include the requirements for enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises which, in addition, are non-sponsored enterprises and, on the other hand, the requirements for large enterprises, which are inseparably committed. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will have a positive effect on financial companies and creditors. The rules for priorities are important for creditors' rights, as they will lead to the presupervisability of their management if financial companies are taken into account or broken-down therapy. Also, I'd like to mention that the subject of the bill ensures clearness regarding commitments that can meet the minimum requirement for personal interest and commitment. The requirement for a new formulation of the funds that will be determined by Iceland's Penitentiary for certain financial companies under the financial legislation on loan management of loan institutions and stock companies. Finally, I'd like to make a decision to increase the priority of all the depositors, and to maintain confidence in the financial system. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u124	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize payment services. As mentioned earlier, the bill is on the roof. 991, 583. This bill contains a new overall payment service law that implements the EU payment directive No. 2015/236 and have been identified as the PSD2 directive. In addition to the new overall bill on payment services, the bill allows for secondary changes in the version and handling of electricity. The main changes to the bill from current payment services are as follows: First of all, new alchemists, so-called creditmakers and credit providers, will be killed under the standards of payment services. Remuneration works by giving pay instructions for the request of the user due to a payment bill saved by another head of payment, e.g. Knock. The cartelist will need a work permit from the National Intelligence Department of Iceland and he will have to prove his professional guarantees or sufficient funds before he has a job. A billing service is a boneline service which provides comprehensive information on one or more payment bills used by other sources of payment services, e.g. Knock. A billing provider will need to register from Iceland's SEC and he will have to prove his professional guarantee prior to the operation. The bill further obligates the right of consumers to make use of this service, and no contract between banks and these new bodies is needed to do so. The U.S. Federal Department of Economics is appointed to monitor the implementation of the law and this new operation which is not being monitored. At the same time, the new credit providers will be allowed access to consumer payment accounts, with their consent, by banks via Internet resources that the banks have an obligation to provide according to the bill. Second, the bill includes increasing consumer protection, including the U.S. the self-respecting consumer reduces the equivalent of 150 euros to 50 euros when a credit medium such as a map is lost or stolen. Third, more emphasis on the safety and effectiveness of all stakeholders involved in payment services than on information and communication is the key when opening up for these new types of payment services. It is suggested that the legislation take effect on July 1, 2021, and that the Federal Republic of Iceland establish rules for further implementation of the law, which introduce the secondary types of the EU based on the payment directive. It is assumed that the Council of Iceland's Bank to implement the European Commission'sward Regulation 2018/389 on the strong level of client truth and a secure signal exchange will take effect immediately following the law, but will not be fully carried out until January 10, 2022. This means that banks will need to open the testing environment for new clients, i.e. Remuneration makers and accounting providers, in the implementation of the Federal Bank regulations, but the Council will play a key role in the implementation of the regulations. It is suggested that a six month development period on the bank's network surface will be completed on January 10, 2022. As a result, creditmakers and bank providers can offer service to consumers who are asked for employment permit or registration at Iceland's SEC. A respectable president. The PSD2 directive has received extensive coverage over the past few years, both here and abroad. Some feel that it can have a significant impact on conventional bank functions. This will reveal the time, but it is clear that by means of the implementation of this directive, new surveillance parties will be made into financial markets and the introduction will take a course for important financial innovations. It is then designed to improve the security of the Public Relations, consumer protection, and further competition in the area of payment services. I think it's right to bring it up here in the end that the PSD2 directive was recorded in the EEA Convention on June 14, 2019, which will take place in the European Economic Areas over the next few months. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Business and economic committees after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u125	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize marketing measures. The bill is on Article 992, No. 584. The bill suggests that the regulations of the Council and the Council (EU) No. 596/2014, of market fraud, will be granted legal value in Iceland. The law is used in everyday speech as MAR, abbreviated English title, by permission of the president, Market About Order. Part of the 2008 financial crisis response by G-20 was to promote monitoring and harmonisation of stock market violations. For one thing, it was agreed in the European Union to set up new marketing measures as well as the European Parliament's Directive and the Council No. 2014/57/EU, on the grounds of marketing authorisation. The latter is better known as the marketing fraud directive or the MAD2 directive. This directive deals with minimal penalty for marketing fraud, but since punishment does not fall within the EEA Convention, the contract was not adopted. In any case, it is considered important that comparable laws be made to market prices in this country and in the European Union and were therefore involved in building this bill in the light of the provision of the market fraud directive. In accordance with recent developments in the implementation of a financial market in this country, it is proposed to set up specific measures for marketing fraud. At the same time, there will be a valid law on the same topic in the terms of stock trade removed, which are based on older European principles in the same area. Following the introduction of the MAR protocol in the United States, the same rules will apply to measures against market fraud in this country and elsewhere in Europe. This contributes to the whole orderliness of the European stock market and to the terms of violations. That's how we come even. prevents what is called monitoring, the attempt by the market to establish where punishment is least if so to be said, or benefit from the different forms of punishment in different market countries. This means that markets are covering market fraud rules by doing business in one Member State rather than another in order to meet less or less requirements for crime. A respectable president. The main element of the MAU principle is measures against market fraud and public reporting by the publishers. Marketing fraud is a term of inherent, illegal sharing of internal information and marketing misappointment. Such behavior prevents full normal market transparency, which is the basic premise of equal competitiveness and investors in integrated financial markets. Public publication by the publishers is necessary to prevent internal fraud and to ensure that investors are well informed, thus reducing the risk of deception. The MAR rules apply to all the financial initiatives involved in an orderly market, a market market of financiers, or planned markets. It applies to any kind of behavior and actions that could affect such financial initiatives regardless of whether the practices or actions take place in a business area or not. The same is true of financiers who have been requested for business ventures in an orderly market or in the market market for financial advancement. According to the MAR protocol, the inauthority, illegal sharing of internal data and marketing misuse is prohibited and the Regulation on minimum administrative legislation is in place against its requirements in this respect. So in the bill, administrative infrastructure is further developed. The bill also discusses the penalty of violations against the Regulation and is suggested to administer marketing fraud in this country, which remains unchanged, either in accordance with MAR minimum or greater requirements. The main changes to the bill from the current court are as follows: First of all, the field of value is more space and now falls. Economic growth in business markets, or market markets, under the principles of the rules. The same applies to the trade of specific release markets. The new set of values focuses on economic developments. Second, the minimum time for publication of inherent information on a publisher's web is extended from one year to five years. Third, the lack of information due to a modification of the release is required to inform the SEC that the release of Inherent Information has been postponed when inside information has been published. In accordance with local regulations, the Commission shall inform them of the use of authorities for postponement as soon as this warrant is new. Fourth, new sources for financial companies are required to postpone the release of information if necessary in order to protect economic stability. Fifth, special attention should be given to marketing cleaning, which includes sharing information on the proposed business and conditions of the company, such as the scope and ideal, which have not been made public in order to investigate the interest of potential investors in business. sixth, the sort of members and the same applies to the inside list. MAR does, for example. it is estimated that the insiders may be divided, that they are divided into permanent embassies and intertwined insiders. In addition, publishers and employees working on their behalf or on their behalf, such as counselors, need to maintain their internal skills. 7th, the law of a financial enterprise is eliminated. Eighth, the protocols for study duty and announcementary primary forces are canceled. Nine, the distribution of growth markets for SMEs is the exception of making internal lists, meeting specific criteria. In the United States, the SEC is provided with increased authority for research, and finally, the standard guidelines for minimal administrative repairs are set up for violations. A respectable president. The bill affects most companies at the stock market. It suggests clear rules that, while the bill also contains new control plans, help to reduce a certain degree of rule. This adjustment is not expected to have a significant impact on the surveillance role of Iceland's Central Bank, which is today being controlled by the market frauds in this country and no impact on government funds is expected. It is not expected that the markets or the bat will require long periods of adaptation. It is desirable that the bill should come into effect as early as possible to ensure the agreement between national and non-EU regulations for marketing fraud. Finally, it is to mention that the bill indicates that a new financial market bill will be established at the same time. The contribution of the latter bill to the General Assembly is expected this month. That, in fact, is the case. to implement the European Parliament's Court Directive and Council 2014/65/EU on the market for financing and Council Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 600/2014, on the same subject. It is the so-called MIFID2 directive and the MFIR protocol. These three types of Europe, MAR, MIFID2 and MiFIR are linked, e.g. In terms of values and term use, and therefore desirable, as shown here, this bill and bill for the legislation on the market for financiers are to be established at the same time. In both cases a spring validation is expected. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u126	A respectable president. Here the bill will be given to correct the change of various laws due to the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018. The bill is made up in the Ministry of Education and Culture in close cooperation with institutions under the Ministry, the Union of Iceland, the Iceland's Olympian Association, and the Board's personal guardianship. The bill is composed in accordance with personal protection laws and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, which took effect here on July 15, 2018. In current laws on personal protection and processing of personal data, there is an increased requirement for responsible and processing for clear information processing. In various laws that hear under the topic of the Ministry of Education and Culture that the Ministry's Office operates on, in accordance with the increased demands of personal protection, in some cases, without a clear legal basis for such practices. The bill is seeking to strengthen the development of personality information for institutions under the Ministry of Education and Culture. The bill does not affect the service provided by an appropriate organisation; rather, it has the bill being reviewed the rights of registered persons in connection with the processing of personal information about them. There are a wide range of activities, including university, scientific research, education, collection, art and culture, media, sports, and youth. The legal basis for the processing of personal information in various laws must be reinforced to the above activities. Not all material changes will be listed here on various laws. It Is a School Change, No. 90/2008, High School Act, No. 91/2008, high school law, No. 92/2008, National Institute of Education, No. 91/2015, National Support Act for Scientific Research, No. 3/003, Sports, No. 64/1998, Library, No. 150/2012, Data Centre on Deaf and Hearing Ill, No. 129/1990, Media Code, No. 38/2011, and college law, No. 63/2006. Many seminars in the Ministry's seminars include the legal services of educational institutions to children and young people, including preschool laws, elementary school laws, and high school laws and university laws. It is important to improve the processing of personal information in this field and to enable the processing of personal information on the basis of a legislation rather than consent. In addition, in the processing of the bill, efforts were made to eliminate barriers in the school system by granting legal services to children for the processing of essential personal information, while at the same time ensuring that individual rights are guaranteed. The bill does not include changes in services to individuals involved or increases the size of their strains. Only the current legal framework is being strengthened so that the institutions can perform their legal role in the processing of personal information, in particular the processing of sensitive personal information. In addition, because of the processing of personal data, a person's rights are being ensured more fully, in line with the personal protection laws. So the bill should not affect public interests or other interests. The bill code appeared as a consultation with the government at the Web site on November 3 to 16, 2020, which was called for applications. Three narratives were received from the Union of Icelandic rural society, the city's school and leisure field, and one person from the city of Reykjavík. Since it is not expected that the bill will bring further financial benefits than the bill that became a personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, no additional cost should be paid to the official person affected by the bill beyond the value of the above laws. The bill makes appropriate changes in the laws under the topic of Education and Culture, so the processing of personal information in the various laws is in line with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, as per Regulation (EU) 2016/679. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that the case be referred to. The General and Education Committee following this discussion and proceed to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-11-65.u127	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the alteration of temporary sources for financial restructuring, which is transported by a greater degree. General and Education Committee. At this point, as shown in a Senate document, plus me, Páll Magnússon, Guðmundur Þorbjörg Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdótir, Steinún jörjörður Ájörnótir Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunundótir, and Þóðstein Sæmundsson, eight of the nine representatives of the court. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. The bill is relatively simple. Its motive is that in the last year, by law No. 57/2020, for example, new resources were set up, temporary access to economic reorganization of businesses due to the conditions that had developed since the Korean epidemic. In other words, it was one of the many measures taken by governments and members of the council to face the temporary challenges of companies who had lost much or even all business grounds in the light of circumstances that existed and, of course, were especially relevant for tourism companies and companies in the related articles. It means that, in a relatively simple way, companies can be put away for a certain amount of time during the most difficult times. The idea was that it should be sufficient for the time of the situation, especially for tourists not coming to the country and thus traveling in a paralytic area. Two. The law of the past provided conditions that must exist in order to accept such authority and to address the legal entity involved. In this regard, it may be most important to realize that the problem of business is caused by the epidemic and not by other circumstances. It is then stated that a payoff will have to exceed 75% or more of the revenues of a certain reference period from the previous year. More requirements are given than to make a long history short of assuming in the law that was approved in the last summer for permission to apply for the release beyond January 1, 2021. As one report shows, the timing in part was that the last spring and summer most people hoped that the economic problems caused by the Korean epidemic would last for only a few months and that the job life would take over relatively quickly, including tourism. Hence, the warrant was made temporary and set at the 2020 to 2021 seasons. However, as shown in the report, the effects of the epidemic have been found to last much longer than expected at the beginning of this year and to realize that tourism and related activities need to continue to cope with the consequences of the epidemic far beyond this year. Even if we assume that the most optimistic projections are going to come true in our country and abroad, and the possibility of travel that may follow, I think it is safe to assume that a large part of this year will be very difficult for many companies in travel. It was therefore an estimate of a greater part of the General and Education Committee that it is a reason to continue to offer this option as one of the many resources that are in trouble for this reason. Therefore, in the bill we suggest a new reference period, a new window, for an enterprise that has not been consulted before to make it out this year. Then, on January 1, 2022, we are talking about the need to apply for payment, as this tool has been mentioned, to January 1, 2002, i.e. ... thisyear. At the same time, we assume that the reference period proposed when assessing the loss of income - there will be a addition to a set period in 2019 where there will be allowed to be a specific period for the past year, because of course, it is intended that if you were in line with the last year, i.e. In 2020, this would be compared with a time period in which companies were either of the paralytics. If the strategy is to achieve its purpose for those companies who may come to use it after the office of the law and until the end of the year, it must be permitted not to aim at the last year, but in 2019, comparable to the reference period of 2019. We thus believe that this resource will continue to be available to companies that meet otherwise the conditions of the current law. I'm not gonna have any more of my words, Mr. President. We'll take this up on the General and Education Committee. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to the committee for discussion. However, in view of the simple change, which does not affect the foundation of the payment sun or this system as such, here it is not changing its nature in any way but only being made up of dates, we assume, Mr. President, that it does not need a long or extensive discussion on the Committee, but will be discussed before it is referred to 2.
