ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u1	Mr. President. In order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Convention, human greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced as rapidly as possible by less fossil fuel use in energy production and transport and at the same time increasing carbon binding, i.e. receptor uptake, e.g. in soil and vegetation, with the recovery of ecosystems, forests, and even carbon dioxide. Climate has taken into account a lack of carbon share, but the main role is to provide government maintenance and targeted advice on the policy and goals of Iceland associated with climate. It is of interest, Mr. President, that in the summary of the Anticarbon stock, which will be used to construct future policies, a detailed discussion of the non-carbonity, aims for itself, and key ideas. It also encourages the government, on the one hand, the legalisation of Iceland's aims of noncarbonization 2040 and the development of a vision of a carbon-free Iceland for an upcoming conference in the climate accord of COP26 held in Glasgow in November 2021. In this context, it is tempting to refer to the Synod resolution of what is stated here on a transnational Senate committee that would assign the President of the Generals to shape them with a committee to submit proposals for Iceland's emphasis at the November 2009 conference in Glasgow so that a broad political agreement on Iceland's priorities in climate matters will be presented to the great and important conference of the United Nations. You see, it's incredibly important that all political parties come to Iceland's focus on climate for the next few years, but the COP26 meeting is supposed to set the course for the next ten years to meet the Paris Convention. But back to the law bill we're discussing here, the non-carbon legal bill, and to sum up the Air Climate Council on non-carbons. It shows that the question that governments and society all face is, not whether Iceland's carbon share is an option, but what sort of carbon share of carbon share would best fall into the nation's vision. According to the Council, there are many ways that there are few. The route will determine the outcome of the quality of life and the prosperity of the inhabitants of the land. The climate problem requires integration with economic management and policy in most areas of society. The indicators need to be developed in order to measure progress in the case category, maximise the value of each ton of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, use all available tools in the toolbox, such as economic instruments, tax, tax, tax, charges, funding and wills, agriculture and building up, law and regulations, participation in transport trades, ETS emissions sources, recovery of ecosystems, carbon balance, domestic carbon balances markets, the development of the economy, research, new enlightenment and education. This is stated in a summary of the Climate Council, which further states that the cooperation of the entire community on the solution to climate problems is necessary and is essential for all to feel responsibility and that most people are involved. During the battle against climate addiction, people such as the state, cities, or businesses themselves have set goals for themselves on a lack of carbon and have tried to find ways to meet these goals. This whole thing, Mr. President, I couldn't agree more. Mr. President. The legalization of the aim of non-carbon is a very important step in the right direction in the fight against the climate, and I support that whole mind, as well as the Group of the United States. However, it would have had to be more ambitious, and it would have been wise to make good use of the trip here and to establish the goal for 2030 C.E., so to speak, that it is called the reviews of this enormously important matter. The target of Iceland on climate is at least 55% reduction in emissions was formally announced to the United Nations Climate Convention in February. That goal must also be established. I would like to point out that legislation on the target of noncarbonization is being made in Finland, which is based on 2035 when it comes to a legal target, and Norway is based on a legal target in 2030. I would have wanted to do the same here. PGE points out this and precisely measures Norway and Finland as an example of bolder measures. In his review of the matter, PGE says that she would like to see more ambitious goals and that the measures referred to there are neither well - timed nor costly. I'm taking care of it, Mr. President. Along with this legal bill, money has to be guaranteed, as it is that without money from state, employment, investors, and others, certain goals are unlikely to be met. I must again mention Reykjavík's Ecosystem specifically, which in its review, Mr. President, that in the financial programme until 2026 Iceland is in no way sufficient numbers to achieve this objective of climate and emissions. Under that direction, I and I take and remind ourselves of the changes made in the Union's fiscal budget to 2026, where we set up 5 billion a year in climate change and added 4 billion to the 1 billion that the government proposes in its financial programme. This means that the Group of United Nations is led by a capital arrangement for climate change here at the General of the budget. But we are also well aware that much more money is needed in this group of subjects for success. Mr. President. I'd like to celebrate the adjustment proposal as much as possible. The Environment and Transport Committee presents the issue in which the wording is about the fact that this non-carbon object is not achieved in 2040 but later than 2040. I like it, and it's important that we come out of this. Then I have to say, in a change in the bill, that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has proposed to support climate activities by establishing the recession as Iceland's own minimum goals, regardless of whether the government negotiates a lower share in common targets with Norway for the European Union. I think it's a good adjustment proposal that I will support. I'm not going to have this much further, Mr. President. I would like to reiterate support, but I also want to emphasize that it would have been a good idea to take advantage of this vital journey here to indicate that there are ambitions, to implement measures, and to establish the goals for which other countries have made, and we have an example. It is so important to do so that in the years that we will have an understanding of how we will achieve this goal so vital in this most important and most important matter that our generation and future generations will face.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u2	Mr. President. What this bill does is to ensure that climate laws reflect government policies in climate. It's no doubt that the next few years and decades will have the same objective, aiming to make Iceland a non-carbon object before 2040. It's a little cute, however, that we're not getting this bill for us until now. To change the variable, with the suggestion that was added from a greater part of the environment and transport committee, is the addition to Article 1. The agreement of agreement with the government's almost four - year - old agreement to achieve a non-carbon objectation later than in the year 2040. You have wondered, " Would it have been possible to work systematically in recent years if it had been installed in the first year of government and not the last year? ' Another problem that becomes evident when it is so far apart from its original purpose and until it is legalized is that a goal close to being ambitious 2017 is not in 2021. In 2040, when compared with the Finnish government's heading for the same 2035 and Norwegian government in 2030 - Iceland, we do not want to believe that at all. What is revealed by the discussion of this issue is, as we have frequently come across in climate issues, how weak the climate management is, how limited information is available in many areas. This becomes clear, for example, when reporters encourage all emissions to be set, including the emissions of the busiest land, thereby providing natural carbon binding to forestry and so forth. According to the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee, the President's permission is: ◯Engine emissions and carbon binding in land use and forestry depend on considerable uncertainty and much greater than from other sources. I totally understand what you're talking about. The official of the case pointed out that science is not just in the same position as science is behind various other factors, but in this light it is particularly critical that the battle against this emissions is one of the main causes of government climate policy. It is shocking that one main theme is so vague that today it is not yet clear enough to be established in law. And as we look back at just one week, we can recall that when a financial plan was adopted here for the next five years, there was 1 billion a year in the 10 years of earmarked climate above the previous, and half of that amount was just in this emissions, measures to prevent emissions and increase carbon binding in land use and forestry. Half the money in a financial program that the government boasts is improving in the climate process goes to the second main level of climate policy that is not clear enough to establish it in law at this time. But the point is to add the law to this, and that is the goal. The year 2040 is a little far into the future. If we are talking about a linear recession over a period of 20 years, it is so well established that half the way to 2040 is in the year 2030, the very reference year of the Paris Convention, where Iceland has the quantifiable national policy goal and could be established on this occasion. These targets are taken from the European Union by 55% as reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in 2030 relative to 1990 emissions and are steps in the right direction. This number decided the European Union after accepting a recommendation from the European Parliament to achieve 60% contractions when science demands at least 65% contractions. So it was bargained out on top of the mainland, but there is a considerable increase from what was once in the country and for that, just as by legalisation of noncarbons in the year 2040, that measures in the same direction were not an option to legalize this 55% goal before 2030. It would also be clearer in the year 2030 because it is not clear enough. It says here, for example. in the list of elements: Iceland's target for climate change is at least 55% in emissions, and this aim was formally announced to the United Nations Climate Convention this year. This is just as far as it goes because the lack of footwear is missing, which is the aim that was reported to the climate agreement is 55% reduction in the European Union and Iceland will negotiate some share of what will be lower if there is a limit to how the share went to the EU's final target. This is different in Norway, which is related to the European Union in the same way as Iceland, where the government announced its 55% objective as an independent national objective no matter what comes out of the European Union, which may also be normal. It is quite normal for people to conclude that when spoken of as 55% of Iceland's goals, they are Iceland's independent goals, but not really the European Union's goals, which Iceland gets some discount. But now the Icelandic government is awaiting a decision in agreement with the European Union to share in the 55% EU target, and that is not good enough. Mr. President. So I've made a new proposal to add into the bill the objective that Iceland achieves at least 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to emissions by 1990, regardless of European Union; that Iceland's independent national objective will be 55%, as it is said on all battles when the government boasts in the ambitious climate. This makes the presentation clear. This reduces today's climate information crisis. However, Mr. President, this 55% aim is a number chosen solely because it is the government's number. If I were to choose my own goals based on what science calls what science would be called, this number would probably be higher, 65% to 70%, I would think. However, a 55% reduction is what the Minister's speeches, or members of the Committee's list, are more important and should be simply an independent objective, fixed in a law to ensure a more efficient implementation of climate operations for the next decade. As additional environmental and transport proposals reflect, these laws need to change regularly as knowledge progresses, ambitions and standards change. Percentages and dates need to change, but forward we also need more goals. Perhaps the most important thing is that we have a contraction of something that science calls out for, which is not really the case in current government programmes, and we need to move the goals of noncarbonization to our time by taking more drastic measures. It also requires setting goals for what happens after the year Iceland reaches a non-carbon level. Then we need to set goals for negative net emissions when the land is binding more carbon dioxide than it is free. Then we also need some objective or some degree of consumption capacity, i.e. The emissions from Iceland but outside Iceland's borders so we can't move from the land of contaminated production or whatever it is and just say that emissions are the problems of the state where it takes place, a state that is producing goods for Icelandic consumers. In addition, sectoral goals need to be forwarded. We need national goals for big business and for flying and for other ETS-rays, goals that still increase ambitions from what the European systems put these articles, so that we can be in charge like Iceland, and so far away from being. A respectable president. As I began to say, this bill is an excellent step, it would have been considerably larger if it had been seen in the early days of this government and not when it is about leaving power. It is already out - of - date because we must want a considerable increase in ambition from what was going on between the states four years ago, and it does not cover all the areas that it would have to cover, although it would actually be a huge improvement if a body of Congress were to hide behind the proposed changes I have made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u3	V.E.G. President. In my ongoing efforts to pay for Congress, I intend to give a relatively short talk on this subject, which still calls for much discussion, and it would have been better if we had discussed it more earlier in the season. Here is a goal, not just a goal, but a unique way to legalize goals - it must be the first time it is done and it has not been clear how it should be able to go up such a administrative and legal approach - not to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but to the contrary. The problem of this group of paintings, this important group, is that there is far too much formalism and that is true in this matter. Often this outward display is reflected in the fact that much of the matter is taken into consideration. These matters are discussed here in Iceland, for example. In many cases, it was not the world's overall effect. How, though, is it possible to approach climate when it is not to be viewed as a world problem? It's not done here. Instead, a bill is provided based on a strategy that allows Iceland's economic production of environmentally friendly energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This will result in very severe and negative economic consequences for Iceland. They will, especially, take the less money in society. The approach given here is a matter of increasing the payment. This has, as it were, been relatively direct and has been shown by new and rising taxes. It is also reflected in less consumption, that we need to reduce consumption, but it could also be said to need a lower quality of life and lower production, in Iceland. But nowhere in the world, at least has few examples, production is as environmentally relevant as here. That's why it's good for climate, good for the world, that it's produced as much as possible in Iceland. But instead of using the benefits of Iceland as the environmentally friendly country it has become in support of world goals, the government here is trying to legalize an attempt to top most or all other governments of the world in an effort to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas within the country - within the country, Mr. President. In Britain there has been a long period of effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and there is no need to comment that Iceland is, of course, much more effective in this area. Last year, after the big announcements that had been made about the reduction of emissions from this recent reference year in 1990, the results had been mainly achieved by the transfer of the production. The production had largely moved to China, where coal burns grow from year to year in order to support the production that is so carried on black - watered ships to Britain and other Western countries. Thus, the release in Britain, as such, had reduced very little, despite the high financial value spent on that project and very large quantities of production in the United Kingdom. And how does the Icelandic government plan to achieve this objective of the lack of carbon 2040, when other nations, such as the British, aim for 2050, and point out, even by their own officials - of the country's financial minister, who still supported the plan - the cost of achieving a non-carbonization, the cost of society, by the year 2050. The minister himself, who supported the case, believed that the cost according to the British Ministry's calculations would be about 1,000 billion pounds or 170,000 billion. Since then, it has been pointed out that this plan is likely to be highly underestimated. But Iceland's plans are to capture this milestone by the year 2040. The problem is that Iceland's space is far less than anything else in the world because of the results we've already achieved. Other countries can move from carbon - related energy sources to gas or renewable energy sources, but Iceland is already producing almost all its energy with renewable energy sources and is, in addition to exceptional environmentally populated land. Thus, only by greatly reducing quality of life, consumption, and production can you achieve the goal here, thus reducing the economy. It'll be expensive. It will be particularly expensive for the income - bearing community, which already has to pay a little more than the earnings. And this is also harmful for the climate. This is harmful in fighting greenhouse gas emissions. The more they produce here, the better for the climate. If one cell or two or three doesn't matter how many, would be moved from Iceland to China, emissions would be increased by ten times, and this is suggested by reducing consumption and production in Iceland, building up the Icelandic environmental economy, and bringing this production elsewhere, since emissions can be much higher. We will not solve this problem unless we have the land's culture and technology. Already we have seen results in that area, and we have hoped for even greater success. But it is dependent on the fact that all the emphasis, all the power, and all the funds are not involved in the actions that lead to reverse conclusions, not into some embezzlement of trade with constant letters of climate, but directed to solutions that work, to technical development, to the culture of the country and, of course, to use Iceland's benefits and produce as much as possible here with environmental energy sources. Thus, this matter is much bigger in many areas, which have been given little attention during the discussion than people realize. This is an enormous issue in connection with Iceland's economic development. This is an enormous issue in terms of people's potential to earn and improve their standard of living, and this is a big matter in the environment, in contrast with what is set up by the movers of the case and in the policy of the government. The whole climate and environmental situation is a big challenge for humans to approach it based on facts, from reason to reason, not some fanciful ethicism and showyness, and to take action that works, which results in success. There, we Icelanders can certainly do good by cultivating the land, by supporting the development of technology, and by producing more than nothing less in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u4	Mr. President. It is my pleasure to bring this committee's opinion of the bill to the local community law. The matter is now being discussed for the fourth time at the General Assembly and is about to be brought to an end. The committee all agreed on the case, and all members of the committee agreeed on it. The Economic and Business Committee publications under the opinion of the Committee. The bill suggests that there will be a new global law that will establish a new community-friendly basis for society to the greater good, and therefore a structured law code for the establishment, the cores of approved, socialisation, decision-making and management of such partners. As I mentioned, this case has been discussed several times earlier at a council meeting, and there are several core points that have been very busy and torn up in the committee's opinion to form this in the proper terms of the executives, which a full chapter of the Committee opinion. The Commission, in effect, points out that the appropriate conditions outlined in the bill, mainly to ensure that those making decisions about business relations, influence the financial decisions of partners, need to be a source of financial control, that, in fact, it is not possible, after speculation and discussion and best advice, to lead to any other conclusion, and that is the conclusion of the committee. The committee suggests a number of adjustments in the document. First of all, stock agreements at 4. and 3 mg. Section 4. it is stated that the stock agreement should be signed by members of a social network. This was discussed in the Committee, and it may have been odd that for large companions to make some kind of signature from all societies. It is decided to simplify it, so the committee makes a new proposal. With regard to the terms in Article 5. While it is stated that in the approved partner to the public good purpose of the company, the tax has to be determined that the company is not motivated by volunteer work alone, and in that case it would have to be able to determine in what way it should be carried out and how it should be handled for the financial resources that have been provided, and the committee will make adjustments in this situation. Iceland's Olympian Association undertook the decision that the case would be agreed on in the present form, and there was a few discussions and work on it within the Committee to find an landing that could be transmitted from there on comments. To a considerable extent, this is in the 29 - year - old arrangement for making changes. ..... it is decided that companies are allowed to register Section 5. The P.R. P.P. list, although it is not stated in their approval that they are a community to the public, and the announcement of this is to be submitted to the public community records. I'm not going to do this in detail. Committees are in place, and they're fine. But it is, as I mentioned in the beginning, glad that all members of the committee sign it. That's why. Óli Kárason, chairman of Kárdi, Jón, Brabbur the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir, Bjornjorn's Haraldsdóttir Brondísdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson son of Gurnar, and Þórarinn Ingi the son of Pétursson, and then Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and Smári Mccarthy. Two of the above signed in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u5	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion on the bill for a currency bill from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The committee has discussed the matter, as indicated in the committee's opinion, and has brought visitors, as well as reviews. The bill suggests that a new total currency law will gain value and that the current currency law, No. 87/1992, and the Cronological Treatment Act, which is dependent on specific limits, will be removed. In effect, the main discussion of the committee, the majority of the discussion, has been discussed in the matter of III. chapter 7 of the bill, specifically 7 and 8. which are, in fact, dealing with the sources that the Council Bank should have to control capital flows to and from the country. In the commission work it was soon recognized that the sources suggested in the bill were more critical than that a good factor, making the committee suggestions for four changes in these articles, especially on 7 paragraph 7. First of all, the more part contributes to 1 mg. It will be made clear that only rules will be taken in order to prevent capital transport between countries in emergency situations, which puts a significant risk of economic stability being disturbed by uncontrolled capital movements and cannot be dealt with by other measures. Second, the more part suggests that the rules under the directive can be set at most for 60 days and that the majority of governments believe that there is a guarantee that rapid intervention is possible if they feel that circumstances require but that long-term limitation of capital movements is dependent on the agreement of the lawgiver. Experience shows that the Council can respond quickly to legal situations. So the majority realizes that within 60 days the duration of the Council Bank rules is sufficient to extend the restrictions on budget management if necessary. Third, the majority contributes to the b-coma 2 number 1.mg. 7. the bill, which is authorized to establish rules that limit or stop payments between countries because of interest improvements and contract-bound loans and bonds, will be removed. Fourth, the larger portion contributes to the final paragraph 7. The bill will require the obligation of the Minister to submit a report to the General Assembly in which there is evidence for the need for rules to be made according to the directive. The report serves as a minister within four days of the rules'sentence or as soon as possible, the Allied will be off duty. Other forms of change are technical and are not meant to have material influence. Well, above all, the more part of the bill goes out to be agreed upon by the changes I've been tracking here. It's under the heading "Why." Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, chairman of the committee, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Ingi the son of Pétursson. Other than that, I refer to the opinion that lies ahead and is no reason for any further trace of it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u6	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's 1st Commission, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, but the bill presented here is intended to validate sources for Iceland's Federal Bank to resort to a vast budget without the intervention of the General Assembly. This is not short - term measures. Rather, it is the government's purpose for a permanent basis for money management in the country at the same time as the responsibility for the implementation is taken from the Lawgiver. On the other hand, rich authority has been found to limit money flows to the trust of foreign investors in Icelandic investments. A currency head, therefore, may long - term harm the economy and generally reduce the economic efficiency of the economy and valuables. Therefore, they are designed to impair the competitiveness of Icelandic enterprises in a global market. In terms of memory 1, the negative impact of the bill on foreign investment or economic costs has not been adequately evaluated. The bill presents the authority to establish comparable capital capital capital capitals and was set after the 2008 economic collapse. It took nearly a decade to unwind from those seas and followed the huge cost of Icelandic employment and Iceland's government fund. The bill acknowledges that a dollar does not have the opportunity to perform its role as a currency in a free and open economy without extensive interventional resources available. In view of the small scale of 1st, the disaster measures that are proposed to be legally established, and they are at high risk of permanently damaging the European economy. It is based on these views, a fundamental reason, which smaller things cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u7	Mr. President. I will not extend the discussion, but it is inevitable to discuss only this bill on currency matters, as mentioned above, which includes a general review of the law in that language. Thus, as noted at the same time, there is a wide range of sources of free trade in the country in the area of currency exchanges. This is in chapter 3 of the bill, 7 and 8. G., where Iceland's Secret Bank is authorized, to accept a minister, but without a requirement for any agreement, establish rules that limit or stop the capital movement between countries and the currency exchanges associated with them, and there is a long list thereafter. On the one hand, payment between countries and the currency exchanges associated with them are linked. Third, foreign and domestic exchanges, etc. Fourth, business with and publishing funds and stocks. So here is a long list of sources hidden from the official organisation and placed in the hands of officials. The word is that a minister's approval is required. But as I said earlier, the General is not expected to approve. Mr. President. It is beneficial to look at the details of this issue only by a business organization. It is reported that the sector of employment is concerned with the possible consequences of allowing the Federal Bank to employ the headmaster's approval and that such a warrant will be granted permanently. According to the review, judging by the bill, a small attempt has been made to assess the negative consequences of this development, but in the opinion that economic costs, whether they test the source or not, may become high and permanent. Therefore, the organization violates these plans, and it goes on to show that a source such as this can have a mass - bearing effect on foreign investors because of increased uncertainty as to whether it can be trusted to transfer money to and from the country. It continues to say that rich sources of capitalisation are not a failure to increase the confidence of foreign investors in Icelandic investments. It is reminded that foreign investments can strengthen economic support by promoting a lower interest level and providing greater opportunities for building up. It is encouraged, in the review of the Association of Employment, to seek ways to improve Iceland's reputation, strengthen the structure and support, encourage investment instead of discouraging and subjugating it. Furthermore, the publication of the Association of Professional Affairs states that there have been insufficient reasons for the need to establish the source permanently in the law. It is noted that examples are for the shame of a meeting. It is noted that in such a situation, a warrant was given to place on the head, the body of the present to produce laws, not present, or present at the last resort of such restraints. I would also like to mention some of the basic concerns presented in the reviews of business matters. It shows that it seems that not enough has been seen to see how the bill and the present system are affected, especially in foreign investments. Iceland is reminded of one of the greatest obstacles to foreign investment in OECD countries, and this claim is supported by quantifiable data in the review. It's said to answer if the bill established the situation that Iceland is experiencing one of the greatest obstacles in foreign investment among OECD countries, whether the bill will support it further. It says that there is no need for clauses on a wide capital capital and that they should be at least subject to the approval of a greater part of the Council. This is a basic point of this matter. In this case, it is safe to say, Mr. President, very broad sources of intervention. First, this authority is given to an official agency and placed in the hands of government officials, in more detail, to the bank manager and to the bank manager's assistant. It is mandatory that a minister grants his consent, but it is only assumed that the Council will be informed on the basis of the arrangement that is being made to the greater part of the situation. The Economic and Business Committee within four days of such a decision. Mr. President. It is essential that such an arrangement be followed by an order made here by the General for such interventional privileges and that this should be done in a way that it is permanently transferred into law. We have experience in finding a situation that called for the need to take similar measures. There was no such law then, and the Council responded and applied it as necessary. But what's upstairs, including. in comments and indications in the reviews, it is that by sending messages into the world to those who might think of investments here that could become the basis for an increase in economic growth and prosperity in the country, the messages these people receive would be that they would be able to expect such an investment without sufficient processes being involved. And I mean, I mean that the Allied has agreed, as well as the fact that such a warrant is permanent in the law of currency in the country. This is very risky, Mr. President. It has to be said at the moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. Ísleifsson And I think that he met the nail on his head by pointing out that this is actually one of the biggest steps toward medium management for a very long time or from the beginning of the 1960's that it was given a broad source. Such extensive sources were properly given around the last collapse and then with the arrival of the council. I'd like to agree with the important indication of why. The senator's concern is that these vast sources are recorded and that the government is given entirely to officials without the presence of the council. I think that's very dangerous. However, I agree with the goal of the bill, which is stable, but I know that we are. A senator may not agree on the routes. This case is a manifestation of the fact that the government has given up on the situation and instead of searching for ways that highlight freedom to business must provide this vast authority to the Huns Bank. That's what it's all about, head or freedom, and this dangerous course is being chosen. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who rightly mentioned foreign investment: In surveys more than 70% of the world's presidents have referred to the Icelandic crown as the only major obstacle but always pay attention when head of currency is given, especially when considering foreign investments. Counts 'em out. A senator that such a bill can have a significant impact on foreign investments and especially on innovation companies who desperately need an investment in foreign lands?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I just want to grab the ball where she put it away with the innovation companies. Mr. President, we are in desperate need of the development and development of a powerful innovation industry. New creation is a basis for the growth of economic efficiency and efficiency, thus providing a basis and basis for the greater prosperity in the country. Thus, a person must think a little wide when it comes to making decisions of an equal size in public intervention and the intervention of a free business life in the country. Here are very big interests under which the need for permanent binding of such sources has not been established. I remember very well when money exchanges between countries were strong seas, and of course, I remember the desire to be forced to free the oceans by the end of the century. It is fresh in mind that it took ten years to unwind from the oceans placed in the collapse. Of course, this is very dangerous, and a man must be careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u10	A respectable president. That took a long ten years. In a short period of 2017, a restoration was under way, and that was at the time of the release of the last oceans. It's gonna take a long time. I remember at the time, when I was at the conference in 2009/2013, at the EFTA Committee, that this was also an exception to what we were always asked about by EFTA and EES: When are you going to lift the seas? This is one of the basic users for us who want to be active participants in the EEA, i.e. Free flow of capital. That's why I feel it's such a wrong message, not that I'm surprised to be present with this government, to send out this tone of such enormously vastly broad sources of currency. Will that prevent foreign investment? No, we know it doesn't. But this will limit our opportunities. I'm really worried about how this will affect the innovation companies. We're now, I think all classes, talking about the need for an increase in the stability of the Icelandic economy. We have basic construction roads, such as the tourism industry that is about to start back, the fishing route, and the industry, but we are always talking about the fourth foundation, which is primarily based on the ideals and innovations, and then they must have the opportunity to obtain just foreign investments. I also wondered about it, and I would like to ask why. Senator: The investors who are already on their way - I've noticed that in the invitation to Iceland Bank, one of two foreign investors assumes that 7% will rise next year, he assumes it on their terms. Counts 'em out. A senator may be permitted to lock that investment away? Given the criteria given in this bill, what will happen to the foreign investment that now comes in or is already in prison if significant changes take place, as investors expect?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u11	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. There's a senator here. Of course, the effects of all of this must be discussed on the crew of the Crown. We know each other, for example. from recent experiences that the Navy has promoted the pension fund to hold back its investments in foreign lands. Now, as we know, they have a lot of money to put in their jobs every year. We also know that there are only limited investments here that are appropriate for the pension fund, as well as that for normal reasons that are necessary for them to spend much of their money in foreign investments. The late bank has been concerned that this will cause the crown to weaken, so it has made some kind of recommendation to the pension fund in this regard to restraining itself in it. But now we see and know from recent experience that here we have a very intense industry called tourism, which will be a natural form of currency once it gets back on the straight path. There is no doubt in my mind that she will be quick and quick in that material and then currency will flow in. It will cause the crown's gang to be strengthened. They will weaken the competitiveness of the Icelandic industry in foreign competition, so all of this needs to be considered. That's exactly the tip of the question. Senator. I'm just going to finish this by saying, Mr. President, they're not better off if they get a new name right now on the bill. These are called protective measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u12	President. I would like to recommend a committee study on the terms of election law from the memory of the management and monitoring committee. The main purpose of the whole case is to gather four requisitional law columns and assemble them into one law column. When we start to change and develop this better, which is also given a national government that has the task of working all the time in it, then what else would have been done in four laws would have been forgotten here and there and always pulled more and more apart, entered one law code, where changes are uniform. The city's rights, like their update, will be turning them into all these elections, which are then elections for the Council, elections for local administration, elections for elections, and votes. The committee has discussed the matter for six months. It is behind many years working on the construction of this bill that we have been discussing at 22 meetings in the Committee. We received 32 envelopes, and in the fourth ten of our guests came before the committee in the six months. It was most enjoyable to meet the committee for the main objective that all agreed on, to combine the overall legislation, as well as to update the specific rights of the city, e.g. ... helpand some of the things I'm going to do here. I'll just refer to the committee's opinion of those who came before the committee, but I'll go on the subject. The Committee reviews the election rights of those living abroad. The bill as it came to the Committee was in that they should have 16 years in place of an eight that is in the law today, i.e. ... thattherightoftheelectionofthetime. But since then, after those eight years, people have been able to check into a ballot for four consecutive years, an unlimited time over and over again, an unlimited trade. There, as the bill came to the Committee, it was to be raised to 16 years, and then you couldn't sue in the sufficiency. The committee agreed that there would be an unacceptable violation of the voting rights of those who truly are Icelandic citizens, as the Constitution states. As a result, we believed inside that people don't have to start pressing charges until after 16 years, i.e. 16 years is the reference period, after which, as it has been, it can appeal to the sufficiency. No matter how long they live abroad, the foreigners who live abroad do not lose their voting rights and continue to have the opportunity to press charges on to the Constitution. In terms of the Supreme Governments the concept, as the bill came to the Committee, it was that the Supreme Governments would be taken out and the government would take care of the elections. There was a wide variety of disagreements about it. We took all these reviews, made them very clear, and saw that there was so much opposition to it, so we joined together to re-elect the Supreme Governments into the election Act. That's what we have for ourselves today. The conduct of the votes outside of a ballroom meeting. Yeah, that's right. That's a group that's gonna be assigned to specifically review it. By permission of the President: ▪ The more part considers it proper to appoint a special service group to consider and further shape the arrangements of non-conceptual votes and to suggest that the bill be added for temporary analysis. The staff will cover this and make this a base structure. We have to be careful that this will be a good thing to do. We didn't think we had time to complete that job, so that work will be done as a result. By order of the national government, it was suggested who should appoint representatives. This was made up of the university's introduction to the fact that it would be more the Union of Icelandic rural society that would appoint the representatives that had otherwise taken up the territory for consultation. A small fraction of a meeting was to be arranged to set off as a result of an unscheduled meeting at the end of the year. 10 o'clock in the morning. 9. The Reykjavík Precinct and then the national settlements are a little different in this regard, emphasis on timing, etc. It turned out that we would remain unchanged as in the law today, moving the bill in that direction. Hence, requirement stands until the end of the year. 10. In terms of assistance to votes, she's extended. In the law they are today, you can get help, and as a result, the voter can depart from a conventional campaign if he is either visually impaired or his hand is broken. So there is physical disability. This is extended and covers other disabilitys, thus ensuring greater opportunities for this. It was also pointed out that it could be abused, and the committee concluded that this expansion is not limited to this expansion but that it is kept inside and maintained by the extending rights and opportunities of voters to use its voting rights. But as we will see, people have to give us the reason, or at first they're not gonna get this right - that's how they're in the law today, and they're still on the bill. It will then be recorded and informed by the General. As a result, when these songs go into effect on January 1, and they will work in the rural phase most of the time - the electronic account that I follow will be some part of a test project then, but in this respect it will apply to the local government election. This will help the General to know the motives, how many are there, and so on. If so, we could consider whether something was unnatural, so we could take a closer look if there is a basis for this. An electronic ballot, as I mentioned earlier, will be of value but it will be a test project in the local government election. She's not gonna be all over the country. Some rural society will have to be tested and the initiative of the European Commission will be started but the rural communities will have to accept it. The rural population cannot be imposed, they must agree to participate in the experimental work, which can then be used. Experience of this can lead to success. They wanted to try it first because it's new, and there's no particular way to go. Although it is nearly a year's course, it was the preferred tool for use, and the electronic program was first used in smaller locations but not over the whole country. In terms of permission to vote again, it was suggested in the bill that if people vote outside the polls, i.e. For election day, it could not also vote on a vote on a vote day, could not return to an out-of-house and pay votes as it is today. This felt that the Committee had to fix it, i.e. The voter's right. He wants to vote outside a meeting, and then he's gonna use it, but then he's gonna come up with new information, and he's gonna change his opinion on some grounds, and then he's the right of the voter that we move in and loyalty today, so that we change the bill to the way it was, that the voter has the right to choose again, whether it's out of the market or on the election day. Regarding mail elections, the final result is late, created today so that it is not seen in the committee opinion. It will be referred to further implementation and Justice Department and the European Union of Iceland, and more people would be able to work on and submit to the General suggestions on how elections could be implemented. It was a stumbling block, but after a discussion, people agreed that it was worth it, in order to finish the case here at the council, to take it out of the parenthesis, but to put it in progress. Then it will return to the council in the fall, if I recall correctly. No, not this fall. It's after a year. Plunger's label - that was a suggestion on the bill. Then it would be done that the voters, known as the voters, marked the ballroom, went out, and before the vote would be inserted, some party would be able to stamp it. It was very unpopular, both at the Committee and in a number of reviews, and it pointed out that this could cause a measure of cold effects on voters, that a person was holding hands, or that he might come close to his vote. It can affect self - examination and, therefore, a certain indirect pressure on the vote. So we agreed on taking it out on the committee, so this stamping is not included. The argument that it should have been inside, i.e. That's why they'd be on the bill, is that people would be taking pictures of the ballot and they could be faked and something like that. But we felt that it was far more important not to create some cool or unpleasant effect on the voter, i.e. after he marked his vote, no one would come near it. The dresser just puts it right in the vote box. Fraternity and unspotted reputation, yes, the terms of success are set out here. In the Constitution, at least in terms of total elections, there is a need to have an unspotted reputation. So it is defined in another law that it means that, after more than two months of imprisonment, you have to have completed a full sentence -- I don't remember what was, whether it was two months or something. If you receive such a sentence, a sentence, and you have to sit inside x long hours afterwards, you will have to complete that sentence completely. This was discussed on the committee and reviewed and reviewed the legal procedures. The Committee claims that once an individual has experienced a solution of experience, as it is in the law for the full punishment, i.e. A probationary solution is the time when the individual is allowed to escape, with the conditional following the administration of part of the punishment. The parole is the time when a person is free and is on probation and is free to go. At that point, he has become idealistic. Remuneration and probationary period - men have been somewhat interpreting it in one way or another and were well reviewed by the lawyers of the council, etc. The committee claims that it is clear that as soon as the parole is granted and the individual is free to go when he is elected. Budgeting and elections - information available to the public is improved, informing the public more about election status and better information and economic reporting. Regarding the classification of closed doors: These are things where people save time. The principle is that, and that is the principle we want to hold and hold inside, doing so by our changing proposals, that a vote should be counted at open doors and in front of the common people. That's the rule. Men have begun to sort the votes before, and we have come to the conclusion that men can class the votes, here is this class, x-something, and we all agree that here are 100 votes for them. But it is quite clear that if you type the votes in advance, they can't just count the banks after the public opening and saying, "Yes, here's 100 votes in this category. It must take these votes and count them back. It saves time to do it that way, but each vote is authentically counted. That's what we're righting and setting clearly in this regard, so votes are certainly counted individually in front of the public. For other indications that we could not react in this, because the main purpose, as I went over, is to combine four laws into one law, in a uniform and collective way, is to work on the change and updates of it into the future. There were indications on the subject and suggestions for adjustments. These include opinions on the equivalence of votes between votes and political organizations, and some, although this is not at odds, propose a change. What's with the equal number of genders in the open arts, election age, a ballast ship? And the experiences of a country partner, as an executive of the election, were also discussed in order to communicate information to voters. The work of the Committee, as I went on, was aimed at joining them on the overall review that all sources agreed that it was important to complete. The majority of these points out that conditions should arise to take a number of opinions about elections in further consideration of the establishment of the national government. As a result, the government has become this confederate, which is constantly working to inspect the arrangement, accept indications, etc. so that this whole structure can be revised from all these laws under one law code. We can actively update the whole law. The value and obligation of provisional law - yes, the law will then be agreed in the General Assembly, it has been agreed on tomorrow, I presume. Well, that's the point. In the fall, September 25, they will not be used in the total election. It's just too short. It is a principle, if significant changes are made, to have one year on course, i.e. from making changes until they are used in elections. On January 1, the next year, the law has become valid for the rural election, and thereafter there are provisional regulations. This means that those who have to work on projects they have to do next year can begin working right away. There are provisional regulations in the law and funding will be included and sources, etc. to make sure that work can start as soon as we accept these laws. As I said about the electronic elections, when it comes to elections, there's a provision, and it's going to be a experiment project in that election, and then it's going to go into effect. There are also other changes to the greater part. We were a few days ago agreeing to the Justice Minister's bill, a bill to correct changes in election law, about electronic references. If it's been legal now, but when the bill was submitted it wasn't legal, it's set up as a modification form into it so that the overall law stays as compared to what we agreed on here a week ago. In this respect, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes that have been attributed to a special Senate document. Andrés Ingi Jónsson signs in advance that he will review himself. This is done at the General Assembly of June 4, 2021. Under the heading "Jonathan Þórífsson, " the director of the Commission and Commission and the chairman of the case, " Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Ingi In Jónsson, in advance, Sir Óttarsson Ottarsson Proppé, Óli Björn Kárason and Pétursson. At the end, there's such a change here to the side. They're in touch with what I mentioned earlier about the mail elections that were inside. But in order to get it done, they had to be taken out, and there are some suggestions that I set out as an executive for the case. Although I'm not in favor of them myself, this is just so that we can achieve this overall legislation, integrate it, and work together as a whole with a change in election law to a back-up for the Americans and to keep the election safe. There are forms of change on the deck. 1739 and 1740 people can study. Finally, I thank you very much for a very good job. The work was well - thought - out, and most of it was well - thought - out. We took the time to make peace with them. In fact, we sent the committee back to a story that is hardly ever done on a matter at council. When we were through all our differences and had some text in our hands, we sent it in a review. But the changes were very dramatic, so we wanted to get additional information from sources of information about the great changes we made and went over and began to the extent possible to achieve a solidarity over this overall review, as I have traced it. Again, I thank you very much for a very good job and a successful step in terms of election laws in the country and their future development.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a comprehensive talk on this important matter, a change in campaign law. I feel that there are many things that definitely improve. A lot of work was put into this. There were differences in viewpoint, and then it came into the council. I'm not gonna ask you what. A senator on exactly what is on the bill, but much more than on the job of the committee. We're back together with a U.S. and the Pirates, with an equation that has to do with the measure of votes. That's a very important matter. It may be that you are half-hearted that we are going to be at rest for a while, until the election is over, and we haven't made any changes in the constitution. In all that work, there was a tremendous amount of work, a lot of fine work. I especially missed that the nation's clear messages through the years, but especially in a reasoning survey, both in the country and on the southwest corner, appeared, i.e. that the nation is in agreement with the equalness of votes. This is such a vital factor in bringing down a particular special interest in the land. This is the basis for a specific power system, this arrangement, the inconsistencies of votes that have no interest in the interests of certain areas, but only on the basis of what the basic religious structure in this society and the power system is. So I would like to ask: What discussion took place within the committee regarding the equalness of votes? Did it go over? Well, maybe. A senator related what took place on the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u14	President. There's two things about this, and one's about it when the bill came out. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was in the consultation group who spoke to the staff who eventually won the bill. The original was to try to achieve a solidarity over the bill that may not have been reached permanently before it was submitted. It was clear at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. O.K., in a bottle of a messenger's talk, w. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, that men would simply submit their proposals, and that was our condition. They just make adjustments where they are, there is no room for solidarity. We would agree on what we can unite in and vote for it, but there is a change in suggestions for what they think they should do about it. There it was. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, in cooperation with Pirata's council, clearly on his position that the balance of votes is one of those factors. That's a new proposal out there. So suggested. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir gave the bill of this material that was treated on the committee, and we had visitors covering those matters so that the discussion took place there. It was quite clear that this was not something that a great many members of the council would want, although Pirars, Reission, and Group could unite in it. That is where the case ended in the processing of the Committee. From the viewpoints reflected in the bill anyway. A senator, the viewpoints of the change in the Björn Leví Gunnarsson's proposal and the viewpoints that Ólafur The Þ. Harðarson has promoted, and appeared before the committee, took the members of these classes, rejuvenates, Pirata, and Conspiraments, an adjustment to the subject already established. Of course I will vote for her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u15	A respectable president. It will be interesting to see how a vote will be paid for this. It is not surprising that the government groups and the Central Party oppose this matter, but voices have been heard within the Independence Party and within other governments, even within the VGs, that the votes should be balanced. Of course, I think Þ. Harðarson Y. He has made it clear that this is an opportunity. This can be changed differently than through the constitution. In the constitution, the ratio is one to two, and the difference must never be more than one to two. When I began my assembly, my virgin talk was about this very matter. At that time, the Constitution was being discussed, and one to four were being left regarding the conflict between words in one or two. That was an enormous step. It is now more than 20 years, and it is time to take the next step to correct the imbalance. On the one hand, we can do this through the Constitution and through this case, the election law, and we can try to continue the course that was last followed in 1999. For my part, it will be very interesting to see how the people who often speak with a rich sense of justice that the game needs to be settled finally voted in a chamber for the change that we have made along with others. I just want to stress that it's good to get that exchange out. At the same time, I want to thank the Committee for a good job. Overall, it is an important step taken by these changes in election law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u16	President. Since these four law columns, approved by this bill, have entered a single law column and that all updates are complete over it, the work continues and becomes easier when it comes to this. Like what? A senator correctly mentions this now. That's not the case, but let's just keep track of how people vote. After the election, this can be changed. There are two patterns of governance in the maps, and we know exactly what the governance pattern is that would fix these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u17	President. I thank you for the presentation of the committee opinion. I'm wondering one thing, but that's the 74th and 90th regulations. the bill that deals with assistance to the voter. That's what I was going to ask you. In the current law, there are several security measures to ensure the safety of the election, e.g. That when a voter shows up and wants to help, he will explain to the voter, or the manager, depending on whether this is an out-of-the-view meeting or not, since he wants help and he's supposed to ask for an assistant in private with the campaign manager. The assistant must not be in the establishment room while making this request. This is to prevent any effects. This is very important. This has been eliminated. Also, resources for the disabled who want to help but do not meet the conditions of the very present law that has been discovered, i.e. that it is just a lack of vision or that the hand is useless, and that's a plan for a lawyer who's in the law right now. They can get proof from him, come to his place, and get help. How has this option been used? That's my first question. Has anything failed? Are people displeased with this? Has it been checked? Then there is no need to think of this in the absence of vision or that the hand is unusable, not private, but that it has this possibility. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking about the disabled, and I'm asking about these security issues. Why are they released?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u18	President. There are these two points, one for the mail election, but the senator is not asking questions about it, and then it's about the help. These are weighted by baseline factors that must be met for the purpose of the law to be met, i.e. so that the voter's will actually yield and he will choose those whom he chooses and at the same time influence others on who make game rules for the country that everyone is made to follow. There are two things in this picture: One thing is to have a realistic right to choose, i.e. that a person can truly choose. The email vote makes it easier for people from abroad to choose. The assistant makes it easier for them to get to a suitable location, which otherwise is difficult for them and to choose according to the standards of the law. The rest is the mystery that needs to be present and forced. There it all goes. If a person asks for help, where can he get help under current laws? Yes, he can get help from those who are in the polls, if he goes to the polls. If a businessman shows up at a boarding home, he's the one who takes it in. We received information from those who have been involved in such a project that sometimes he would have to sit for two hours in order to get the voter's wishes ahead. There's not a void here. It's not like we're looking out for a vote, and we're not making sure everything's unsatisfactory. Still, we decided to do this because it has been in our democratic tradition that we want people's rights to choose a more important road. This is to ensure that, on a broader basis, disabled people who are neither blind nor visually impaired and neither with their hand destroyed, not with physical disability, but with other disabilitys, are made easier to apply their votes. They may request assistance at the home and also ask for their assistant. [[The president calls.]] They can assist three so that there is a limit, and this needs to be recorded, and the General can pay attention. [[The president calls.]] There are defenses that are struck.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We must not associate with these laws lightly. I'll read what the commission says, this is a question: The bill's proposal means that the right to vote outweighs. Hv. A senator has repeated this. I hear it. But the possible influence of an assistant on how the voter votes, he weighs more than the right to vote. And what does it say? Now note: However, certain conditions are set in the law. Where are those conditions? I don't see them. They're not there. If there is a requirement for writing something in a book - is that a requirement? What kind of bullshit is this? Senator? It's easy. I've been in elections for 20 years, in every office, as an assistant, as manager, in election management, in head of state, from house to house. This is a very dangerous arrangement. Why is it not simply possible to pick up the safety details of the old law, even if the voter would ask for help and help in private with a manager or a voter, even if only that would be possible? But to open this to all voters, that everyone can put in the manager or voter with an assistant, anyone, anyone -- the voter doesn't have to report anything and doesn't have to ask for anything, he just comes in and walks in and chooses. There's a hell of a risk of discrimination, huh? Senator. We may not be aware of that. But this danger is there, and I've been through it many times, many times. [[The president calls.]] And this right to vote, where does it end, anyway? Senator? Where does it end?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u20	President. Like we've both gone over today and yesterday, it's 1st. Clear. You may only deviate from the rules of elections there are conditions, and we've gone over this together. There are conditions: If you are unable to choose differently, you can deviate from the rules. It was in the text, and we went over it together. There are conditions, but they have become more extensive and include more types of disability. If you are for example. deaf children, who will be able to help you in an ideal place? It is a law that not everyone should come and do anything and nothing is done. Yes, you have to have a reason for that, and the reason must be that otherwise you cannot choose.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u21	Where does this show?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u22	This is in the text of the bill, the first line of 1.mg. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] We went over it together. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u23	A dresser has a right to help. It's right here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u24	Yes, voter has the right to help, read on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u25	We can read it quietly. We need not be disturbing the whole hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u26	We went over it together and anyone could read it. You just looked it up in the bill right away. You can only deviate from the rules if you cannot choose another. This must then be recorded down. When this was presented to the committee, and there's a viewpoint that was good to hear, I said: Okay, put this bum. We can then keep track of the fact that this will be recorded and the General will be informed so that we could be watching the reason and react if we feel abnormal. But the fact that people get their trusted assistant, that disabled people get it, and that they can come to a vote, if they can prove that they can't choose otherwise, means that they don't have to ask someone from the ideal government. [[The president calls.]] Or they come to a boarding home and can gather votes there. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Today, this can be taken advantage of. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] Yeah. It's in the law. It'll stay inside. This can be taken advantage of today, and this will even result in a reduction in abuse. A senator, and that's what we've gone over. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u27	The president asks why. Parliaments to respect deadlines and to be careful not to exchange opinions in their talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u28	Mr. President. I will go over the law in short, mainly the things that have caught my attention. I will read this article aloud in the public address, the article that I and I had. A senator was on the subject. In fact, the two articles are only two, but it is enough to review one of them because they agree. I'll go over it later. At first, I'm going to discuss the whole thing. Of course, this case has a long history of action and long time to enforce many of the election laws and not only by elections to the Council but also by other elections, such as the government, under the law of campaigns and elections of Iceland's president and by the law of national agreements. In the bill, all these laws are placed in one law section, which in itself is an excellent matter. Some were well - versed in their years, and in many respects they were dissensive, that was obvious. This is especially true of the law on the proposal and votes of the President of Iceland. Because all other parts of the country, many other areas were used in that law. It was so - called national quarters that it caused a lot of trouble, both for those who were collecting references and for those who were offering themselves, including the review of all references, etc. So it's been a long time, and I'm very into this process that it's done, that it's put together in one law. There are many things I had at the bill to check, Mr. President, but I can tell that most of the major problems that were found on the bill have been fixed. But there's one thing I mentioned in the answers I left earlier, and maybe some less important minors. It's, for example. Things that have been adjusted for the terms of national government have been brought to a better end. Three are nominated by the General and two members of the European Union, and I don't comment on that. It's been better already. One thing that I'm not fully pleased with, and believe we must be careful, and get into my nerves personally, is a founder. The establishment of the national government remains in the home, although some reductions have been made. But there is no doubt about it. There is always a tendency for higher organizations to eliminate assignments to a lower government authority in order for them to gain a little more peace. And the lower level of government, which may be a little at the beginning, as well as a two - man office, tends to grow. That's how this happens all the time in the management system. In terms of elections, there has been additional work for one or two staff at the Ministry of Justice during elections. Now they're going to build an institution for this, and before they know it, it's going to be a really fun, big booth. I see the bill reporting on the annual reports and reporting to the Ministry so that there's no doubt about it. I'm against this kind of thing. The election has been prepared by a small number of employees at the Justice Department for a few weeks, perhaps starting several months before each election. An election is every four years, total elections and district elections and elections. Of course, work at the Ministry varies according to the election. To extend this and create an institution is some kind of slang in the administration--flavoking, Mr. President. I'm on the prince's side against this. And once again: This should be an institution located in Reykjavík. Things will be more directed than before, and all power will search for us here in the capital area. I'm against it. I just want to come in. It's not a matter of salvation, but it's all very irritating to me. I'm going to name the top government in the districts. The original bill expected them to be laid down and given a vote in each rural society. They took it out of the bill and it's good, I'm really happy about it. I think it's an additional misunderstanding, an increased risk of failure and failure to increase the number of places from six to more than 70. It's good to have fallen away from this, i.e. not allowing a voter to vote for a ballot if he has chosen outside a meeting. That's how it was in the original bill, but it's been canceled, and I'm happy with it. Regarding the stamping of votes on the way in a box to simplify work on counting and monitoring, I was as if there was no problem with that point, it may have been an improvement, but it will be canceled. Let's leave it. Regarding electronic records, I've always been impressed with that idea, even though some people can't hear about it at all. An electronic budget provides an amazing potential for employment and to facilitate the implementation of all elections. I've been in favor of recording electronic records. There are several lions on the road to recording electronic records. The government would then have to oversee that all elected governments had adequate computer equipment. Some cost would come with that. I don't see it happening like this once in a while. There is also concern about the security of electronic records. But if it's possible to ensure complete security, it's definitely work savings. I see that in the bill proposals it is assumed that this will only be recorded by a few rural communities in the first place, for audition. That's fine. As it says in the bill, it's workload and simplicity. But it may not be quite so simple, Mr. President. Although one rural society or two films an electronic program, it would not simplify things to a thing. It would have to be over everything. If someone who chooses Kópavogur would come into an elected location in Hafnarfnarfjörður and if there is an electronic account on the spot but not on the others, the old system would have to be taken up. This would require telephone calls to see if the person in the other area had appeared on the other side of the book but on the other side of the computer. It wouldn't save anything. However, if electronic records were available in all places, there could be huge savings and no communication, everything would go through computers and a voter in a single set of terms that could appear anywhere in the economy and choose without any risk of sneaking into another chosen location, because it had been marked in the computer. But this calls for security. It's a huge job savings, Mr. President, and it's only on count. I've been in favor of an electronic ballot that's something completely different than an electronic election. That's a different thing. That's when I've come to something else that I was going to talk about, and that's the mail code. The original bill said that it was to take the road to allow the e - mail elections. At first, e-mail elections were to be authorized abroad. Happily, it has been passed away. I say fortunately because mail elections pose a serious threat to abuse, and even if there are safety measures, such as ID or something, computer systems are no more perfect than can be introduced into them. They may have voted months before the election, and the surveillance would be very difficult. It would be hard to tell if someone had hacked in. Then with these Witnesses, there is, of course, a danger as to whether the voter really chooses in private or if someone else would do it for him. So I am very glad that the committee assumes that post elections will be checked on the part of the Ministry. It's just fine, but I'm glad it's out. The safety of the election is not an easy thing to do. The safety of the election is not supposed to be easy to deal with. As it has been noted in my earlier comments regarding assistance to the voters, I believe it is quite easy to say so in the Committee that certain conditions are placed in the law and the conditions are not found. Is there a registration condition? Is it a requirement for a voter to record the reason for help? Is this some condition that is difficult to go through? There's just no condition, Mr. President. And is it a requirement, as it says here, that a voter himself can explain how help is provided? Is that a condition? It is a complete misunderstanding, Mr. President, to interpret it as conditions, i.e. When the voter has entered the ballot with his assistant, that he can tell him in two persons what is left of silence, that he can tell him what he will choose. It's funny to say it's a condition. The dresser could shut the fuck up the whole time, and no one would ever know. There's no condition, Mr. President. It's just funny. I worked for 20 years on all the terms of that arrangement; as an assistant, the district manager, the head of state, from house to house, in institutions, in prisons, in nursing homes - all the alphabet. And it's amazing what people are trying to do in this relationship. People try to keep an old man at a ballroom who has no idea what he is for, or younger people who have no idea what elections are, have no idea what sort of classes are, may not know a single politician or group. These people are taken to an elected location, Mr. President, of the people or members of a family or someone who works at the agency where they live. These people are taken to an elected location, and if they pass through the conditions that are not now, of course, it is the assistant who conducts activities. It is clear to each person. That's very dangerous, Mr. President. That's easy. I know an example of a considerable number of votes that have been paid in this way, and, in fact, nothing so old, I think it was reported in the papers. Mr. President, it's impossible for us to be in such a hurry here at the Generals to make this election an election bill that it's passed through. That won't do, Mr. President. What must be done? I mention it as an example that the conditions of the old law can simply be accepted. Is it unfair for the voter to come in and talk to the manager and say, if he can say, "I want help, I want Sigurður to help me? Is that asking too much? Where does the vote go, Mr. President? Where does it end? Why not demand that the voter know that he or she will vote and what he will choose? Otherwise, someone else must control it. Isn't that right? If the voter doesn't know what he's doing, knows that he's about to vote, doesn't know what he's going to choose, who's in charge of his election rights? And should we just open it? No, Mr. President. I think it's a serious matter, but I'm not gonna waste any more time on this. I guess everyone's tired of me, but it's serious, and it's simple to fix it. First of all, the law needs to include the voter explaining the election government from the time he needs help and in private, not under the influence of the aid of the individual. The reason for this is not necessarily significant. There is no need for vision loss or disability, he can simply explain the optimal management he wants to help, and he wants that particular person to help him. If he is able to go through this needle's eye, which is not narrow, he can be helped, and then he can get help as he wants. Is that asking too much? It's so simple. No, the voter's right to vote is so great that even those who don't have any idea what elections are or what they're going to choose, or generally just what they're at the place, should be allowed to go in there and vote. And who really chooses them? No, we must not rush so quickly that we are exposed to gross abuse of the rights of elections. The vote is important, I agree, and it says here, but we can't go too far to the point of open abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u29	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I just want to say that an enormous amount of work has been done on the Board of Directors and Controls on this matter. I want to use this opportunity to thank all members of the committee and especially the Chairman who has worked hard to reach a good conclusion. However, the matter has taken quite a change, and it is not least for the Middle East to have fought a number of changes in the bill as well as others. Sure, things have improved. The bill has improved. It's not perfect, it's not like you'd want it to be, but it's been tailored and fixed for quite a while. So, for example, administrations that were practically planned to be put off are still in there and places of count and other things that we changed to the Commission. I think there's a lot more to it than that. I'd like to partially agree with my colleague and partner, okay? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who spoke about the help we had just said, for the reason that we want to prevent the disabled from abusing their votes and that they cannot express their own opinion with their own will and motivation. That may be what woke up to us, when we were criticizing this point in the bill, not to reduce the rights of this group unless it is less than, at all, not to put it down, not to belittle him, but only to try to prevent the involvement of this group in elections from being abused or distorted in some way. This festival, Mr. President, could not be made clear to correct it or correct it. But there's been a lot of other things that have been getting better. We Middleclass fought, for example. hard for the lack of mail elections within the bill, and it was achieved before the elation and persistence, especially because the head of the Committee is determined and wanted to try to resolve this matter. It is now, Mr. President, that if you are so reasonablely disappointed, everyone, the best conclusion may be made, that is possible. I want to believe that in this case, with this bill, the best results are made. She's not perfect. I'm sure she's the best we can get up to this time. I expect tomorrow we will support this case, and I'm sure it's very simple that there have been four legal columns in a single law column and that will include all the elections, whether it's elections for the Generals, local administrations, or elections for the President of Iceland. It's all right. True, there is also another probe that we would have liked to see differently, i.e. that an institution should be made from the national government. Strains want to grow and grow and become more expensive, and there is also a measure of concern. But there is something else about the laws like this to be done by men, and if the experience is not good, we can, of course, change those laws. I'm rather conservative in changing the law, and I want the adjustment of the law carefully and that it should last as long as possible. But we can look at these laws with experience. These songs will begin to operate in a year's district elections, followed by other general elections from now on, and there will be some experience with how this new system will turn out. Hopefully, it will be successful for everyone and will lead to a safer and more efficient implementation of the campaign, with no doubt about how they operate. Mr. President. I didn't mean to extend this meeting, but I'm just saying that it's a pleasure for this landing to be reached in this matter of perseverance, especially for the persistence of our Middle Class, and for the cooperation of the Director of Board and Control, which I thank you for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u30	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a commission from a financier with a proposal for a bill for the use of a land owned by the state for employment. The Commission met with the Office of Justice and Legal Office of the University of Iceland, as well as with representatives of the National Institutes of Agriculture, the National Farmers, the National Social Services, the Huns, the Organization, the Group of Tourism, Coalmies, the Landing, the Water Earth Park, and the National Park on the Moon. The representatives of these parties are listed in the introduction of the opinion, but in addition to their reports, the reports were received from the Blue Forest, the Council of Energy and Environment and the Environment Agency. The suggestions were very helpful, and the committee benefited greatly by reviewing the subject of the bill, and most of the reporters were positive to the bill, but they made very helpful comments on what might be done and considered. I'd like to state here that because of a lack of consultation, there was criticism in preparing the case. True, it may also be noted that the matter took time in consultation, and the billing regulations were sent to the local community, but the criticism focused mainly on the lack of adequate consultation with rural society. The committee sent the case to the review of all local members of the community. The main focus of the bill may be to bear in mind that this is an effort to cover and form a system of activities to ensure community interests for use and access to State territories and with the aim of contributing to the economic use, sustainability, access and structure of the country owned by the State, taking into account equalness, objective, transparency and competitiveness. It will lead to increased valuables and thus, with all these objectives, we will make better use of and benefit to society as a whole. This stipulated ad warrants specific conditions, when a state's land use rights are arranged, and this aims to equalize with these types of exports, which also increase the competition for quality. The bill is intended to establish a plan for use with a careful planning so that the use will be practical, reasonable, and at peace with nature. At the same time, it is intended to ensure a natural price for the use of a country owned by the State that this purpose remains for principle 16. the bill on the best price and the aim of adding investments to the infrastructure to ensure the necessary structure and facilities in the affected area and protect areas from contamination. The bill does not prevent or limit the use of rights in foreign lands. Parts may have other indirect rights to land owned by the State, such as 2 mg is likely to result. Section 5. law on nationalities and decision of national boundaries, nationalities and delinquency, No. 58/1998, and maintain that right. The committee presented the view that the people should be separated from the set of values of the bill, but it emphasized that the right to use and the indirect rights to farmers would not be restricted. It was noted that work would need to continue to explain landowners' rights to the access and contact of tourists and others in the country of farmers. The Commission is entitled to ensure that one of the main objectives of the bill is to meet the rules of national use regardless of who is represented by the State and how important it is to ensure that the same protocols are valid, regardless of the local public's oversight or management of certain areas, whether within the natural protection area, national or other countries owned by the State. It may also be that within the lakeland park, there are both citizens and peoples, and it is certainly not a practical, respectable president, the rule within the park is not consistent. The rules presented in the National Code continue to apply as a special law if it is considered to be incompatible with the general framework presented in the bill. However, in view of the Commission, it has been absolutely safe to believe that the framework for terms of employment initiatives is within what is stated in current national legislation. The Commission also noted that the bill does not limit the use of indirect possession rights on the land owned by the State, particularly on national delinquency. Then the Commission points out that the State is the possession of the people, although rural communities play a distinct role in the management of those whom the Ministry of Prime Ministers must also confirm on behalf of the State. In light of statements to advertising as a principle to a national arrangement, it must be dismissed when important interests recommend it, the financial committee points out the duties of public citizens for the provision of national rights. It should always be advertised the quality of the government and has its obligation, including its own. is confirmed in the opinions of the General agent. The bill suggests, however, that consideration must be given to the views set forth by the local community for innovation and initiatives in choosing an offer so that it will be included in the rules of conduct that apply to public goods. Hence, the committee does not consider it desirable to separate the national population from the set of values of the bill, where this would significantly interfere with its objective. The committee points out that the access limits can generally be divided in two, but in general they were positive about the access limits of the bill. As a result, today we are faced with the task of protecting our major natural spheres organizedly, and we look forward to an open access based on social control and, on the other hand, a special disposal. And the bill contains three types of contracts, patents, licenses, and new contracts. In the United States, the availability of popular tourist attractions is easy, and many of them have reached tolerability levels due to induction and lack of infrastructure to meet the high number of tourists. Thus, the bill presents a number of main goals that can be considered to be only by legislation in which local rules are laid for the use of jobs. The committee, however, stresses that there is no problem with the civil rights of individuals to free the country. 3 mg. 2.g. it is listed in several characters what the law does not apply to, and it states that the legislation does not apply to real estate rights, including water rights, ground rights, wind, mining rights and salmon and trout fishing. It also states that the legislation does not apply to the use of the land in close relation to the use of these rights. The report on the bill shows that while the bill does not cover this resource, there is no basis for citizens to apply or take into consideration the terms of the bill, such measures taken on the basis of other laws. The Commission for this reason, and this was somewhat discussed, a respected president, that governments cannot apply the laws of these laws to cases other than those that fall within their set of values, and much less if there are other laws that are incompatible with rules. The Commission insists that despite this, the text of the bill is clear that the laws of the law do not implement real estate rights, including water rights, geologic rights, wind, mining rights, salmon and trout industry are not relevant to the practical use of the land, which is closely linked to the utilisation of these rights. This is an important point, causing some misunderstanding between a series of articles and a bill text. That's why the committee thinks it's the right thing to call it right here. Comments were made in the terms used in the bill and are most remarkable in the comments made by the Organization. The financier feels that the phrases (s) of the country and the arrangement of the land ◯ have key significance in the bill and that it would not be beneficial to use other terms in this regard, even though they made comments. In this regard, we can refer to the earth's laws and laws on public financial matters, which are supported by established phrases without being carried out in organizational matters. The Committee stated that the bill could interfere with national parks'ability to raise income levels and restrict their activities. In general, the entire income of the government's property goes to a state fund unless there is no significant income. The bill consists of all income running to the state funds in accordance with the official financial laws, except in the case of treaties directly related to the legal or nuclear functions of the competent authorities, which includes to increase the incentive of the Member State to take income in the area of which the person is in charge for the state's funds, which can be spent for the development of the necessary structure. With regulations of 51rd pars. the law on government finance was also intended to make a clearer distinction between when Member States will collect conventional services, which are solely intended for the costs of a particular service, and when it is permitted to collect other kinds of money from a country owned by the State, which includes. to profit from investment. It is evident that the regulations of Article 26. It is not a traditional warrant for taking services, so it is important that the principle is that we make our income unless there are certain conditions. Still, the budget of the income will be determined on a certain basis. The Commission believes that both the interests of the permitholders and the government funds are insured, but the committee did consider it somewhat, a respectable president, and realizes, of the information gained by the committee, that in almost every case, income of the existing contracts will be made to the national parks, as in this case. However, this value of general rules is even more important, as is being suggested and stated in contracts, end up in great structure, and the necessary organization in the areas in question. In Comb 4. The bill is an explanation of the word "letting go " in the 7th issue. In view of the fact that rural society has a role in the management of the country, the Committee considers it proper to add the figure to a diplomat of state or another official member of the country's territory to be owned by the state of the State to take away any strong claim that rural society could fall under it. Regarding the income in these matters, as the committee discussed, it is important to keep in mind the interests of all, honorable president, licenseholders, the interests of the State, and perhaps no less of the users and conditions, as suggested in the bill, very exactly, by contracts according to the nature and type of the work being done and the territory, what is being spent up to, and what is being built up - that income is guaranteed under that structure and clearly and benefits what is involved, how the income becomes and where it flows. A provisional arrangement is given at 1 mg. It is required that the minister should no later than five years since the execution of the law has completed the analysis of the country owned by the Icelandic state and submitted a report explaining the results of the analysis. The Commission believes it is proper for the Minister to give this report to the General for a country owned by the Icelandic government, which the Council has a considerable interest in overlooking, and much less in the general population. In this way the Court's committee will consider the importance of making the report available to the public, and with its distribution here at the General Assembly it should be guaranteed. In addition, the committee suggests some changes in wording to some guidelines in order to enhance their clarity without their meaning being altered, and these are changes at the end of this committee. Otherwise, the committee suggests that the bill will be accepted with the adjustment proposal I made here. ... athree, a.m.7. and the comment changes suggested in the eight figures that follow here in a committee party, but I'm not going to read specifically. In payment of this committee's opinion, Sæland Goad was absent, but he signed in accordance with 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1991, but under the defined printed page, below the below. Councilmen: Willum Þór Steinunn Þórsson, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Steinunni, the Árnadóttir of Tira, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, daughter of light, Birgir, son of Þórarinsson, in advance, and Inga Sæland, as I passed over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u31	Mr. President. Thank you. A prehistoric senator and a very fine tour of this case, which in many ways is excellent. It's like it happened before. Then I'll sign my opinion on the committee in advance, and I will briefly review it below in a speech. What I wanted to do was come in with what I wanted to do. A senator is the value of the law, as discussed on page 18. 3 on the bill, i.e., the law doesn't have a bearing. A senator handled it very well - real rights, i.e. water rights, land heat rights, wind, mining rights and salmon and trout fishing rights. It also states that the law does not apply to the use of a country in close connection with the use of these rights, and I wanted to know if. A senator might explain it a little more clearly. How close is this relationship? I didn't find it in the bill that had a very good tour of the Committee, and I thank the chairman of the Board of Directors, okay? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, for handling this matter very carefully. A number of guests appeared before the committee, envelopes were received, and so there's nothing wrong with setting, just good work. But I feel that's inexplicable. This may offer some different interpretations. In case of a moment. A senator has some ideas about this, what is meant there, it would be good to get it out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir However, we discussed some of the values found in the case of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, mainly because of these differences. In the bill's preparation, it was decided to distil it into stone as to what the bill was not, and there were some forms of discrepancies between the report that remained to be used for such resources in the future. It was unsettled, and the committee endeavored to take away the doubt that could develop between the bill text and the report. I don't think it's to overemphasize the wording in close contact with ◯. I think there may be some rights to it in case of some of the resources related to a country that is to be used as suggested in the bill. That's how I understand the words. Thank you. However, for a very good indication, there is a senator. Sometimes you just read the words and put nothing more into them than they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I make the point because there are times when inaccuracies in the lyrics can cause problems later on, I think that's why. A senator has done quite well over it here. In the second answer, I just wanted to get into what it is that causes us to get a review from, for example. It's a cuisine that says they can't accept the bill in the present picture because there's not been enough consultation, and I know that it was. A senator entered this speech, and they say, for example. Here in the bill, we are not taking into account how government clearances in foreign countries are in the hands of rural communities. Of course, this is important. Then there's a sentence that comes up, a bit interesting, on the part of Huna Water Sleeps, which gave a detailed and long story about the bill. They say here, by permission of the President: ▪ TV includes heavy - scale and burdensome administrative arrangements. I'm asking why. Perhaps a senator could give a little thought to this particular remark. And then, what is it in the process that makes this lack of communication? Of course, it is very important to have a good consultation with rural society, especially those rural areas that have the rights discussed in the bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the answer, and it's true that Hunsapets brought a very thorough and useful review, and we took this point into account and made a suggestion that a change would be made in that review, and I reviewed it earlier. But as to the discussion first: I think you should have the general view that if anyone thinks there is a lack of consultation, there is a lack of consultation. It is their food, and then we should strive to do better. With regard to the peoples, I understand the concern, but that's perfectly clear, and we tried to cover it in our opinion, that the rules of the National Codes keep their values as separate. I don't know if words can be said so that they top the general law they're putting here. This is very clear, and if it is incompatible with this general framework that is found in the bill, it may turn around to the work-use negotiations of the country. According to that information, and if you read the report, you are careful to ensure that everything presented in the bill will be contained within current national Dutch law. You can put it that way. As you read about Huna Water Slips, it is very important to understand. I think that's what the committee was trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u35	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for a good review of this matter and an excellent answer to the past. Hv. A member of the committee handled the committee's opinion and opinion that appeared at the work of the Committee, and I allow myself to say that the case was very well discussed within the committee. I sign the committee's opinion, but on a note, and the reason is primarily the introductoryness that I employed, even in reply. For a parable of Shelah's water pits, and of the towns of the Blue Forest. Thank you. A senator for an honest answer there. When we make such comments, we should take them seriously and try to do better, not minimizing it when someone says that the consultation was not enough. We must learn from it. There may be one thing I missed here in answer to. Senator. I asked him if it would have been good to get his opinion of it. It's one of those interests that Huna water platforms are presented here. But on the contrary, I think it's right. A senator has been able to make this very clear, e.g. As to the national State concept, which is now one of the big issues in the bill and comments received, it is made clear that all the special laws that apply there are, of course, of course, to these laws. I think that I have managed to explain it well and, of course, I support this objective of the bill, which is to promote the practical use and sustainableity, and the availability and structure of national infrastructure and employment in the state. It speaks of equality, objectivity, transparency, and so competitive. I think it's quite possible here, and I'm glad that this is a solid agreement. Then there is one opinion that came out of the park, but it has been said that the bill could influence the national parks'potential to earn money and set certain limits on their activities. It was over, and I think that was a good way to correct it. I would then like to express my satisfaction in discussing that this does not affect the public rights of individuals to free passage across the country on the basis of the laws on nature protection, that it is not to interfere with the public rights of individuals to free country travel. It is good to be specific because this is, of course, something that many have been worried about. Then I like it because it's discussed that it's not that it's failed to prevent such innovation. Now this commercial duty - and I remember that I specifically asked this at a meeting of the Committee - and if anyone has any idea of using the land of the State, e.g. to a job success in travel or any of these activities is not to prevent them from agreeing to perform their own ideas. It does not have to be advertised particularly until then in later stages if the person is informed that in later stages of the use of the country, he can develop his own idea, which is very important. I think these are the most important things I wanted to present. It's mostly these nuances of the case that I was worried about, i.e. Of course, it is normal to ensure a certain price for government use and to contribute to this discharge of services, as follows. In addition, it is very important that the bill does not prevent or limit the rights to use in national lands. Perhaps that was a major concern, I thought, for those who sent in envelopes, and especially for the comments of Huna Water Slipp, as well as the comments of the Blue Forest. To this, of course, I support this matter, which in many respects is good and beneficial. This is where the rules and regulations apply, so it's very important. I hope this case is to benefit these and these stakeholders who request contracts with the government, and this will help to increase the injection when it comes to the use of land on the property of the State for employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u36	V.E.G. President. I come up here to thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for helpful suggestions on what to do. It's never gonna stop. We should always be considering what we are doing. There was one thing I didn't leave, or I couldn't get over, but there was a legitimate indication that this could include heavy government. It is understandable that people are concerned about this, but then we must just look at the situation today. Today, there is no firm question about how we direct access to a precious land, how we use it, how we make money, what we're building up, and how we should build up. This is a speculative process and observation, and, yes, there is a requirement for those who apply for such ads to achieve their equality and all. I just want to make it here that this is gonna reflect a little bit in these different contracts that are proposed. In order to avoid this, contracts involving three - year - olds are made for some kind of use that may not involve highly expensive structures or manpower. They are smaller, and this form is especially to be taken into account that the contract process will not be too burdensome or costly for companies who are serving on land.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for explaining this. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A member of the council that it is natural to set a very important framework for the use of land on the property of the State for a job, and it was long time. That is why I welcome the bill, even though the above comments were made that we should take seriously and endeavor to respond to their viewpoints. It was done with at least One indication, I think, from a cuisine scaffold when it came to an explanation of terms, and that's good. Other than that, I agree with it. A senator said and presented. We need to realize that our rural communities have a role in allowing them to do so, so here is an excellent adjustment proposal for this definition, found on page 6. 5, which is a good thing to make sure that your community can fall under when it comes to this organisation. It was a good point and a good point for the committee to record, for it is of great importance that these things are already explained and that there is nothing to doubt about how to handle certain rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u38	V.E.G. President. I understand that this is going to be a little tricky when I come up here and I react to what I couldn't do in return. I just wanted to come up here and take my mind off with a what? A senator who says that once the committee has observed this, as was done with the very good help of the secretary of the committee and the Ministry and the staff who worked on the preparation and counsellors, and who try to draw it all forward and then give it up in recognition, they are determined how important it is to have such a frame. As we look forward to making use of the State and the interests of the public, with which we make money, build jobs, make valuables, ensure that, as the goals show, all have the potential, those who do services that are relevant to certain areas, those who want to do so. In spite of everything we discussed on rights, nationalities, national parks, and all the values that are very important, it remains to watch the interests of consumers, the interests of permitholders, the interests of hosts, and the end for public interest, that we make the most of our country, and so everyone has an equal advantage when it comes to each income, that when there is any doubt, all the way around it is made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this good input and agree with him that, of course, the purpose is to have a framework for the use of non-profit land of the State and that we are taking advantage of these valuable things, truly in the land of the State, reasonable and moderate. That is an excellent lesson in the article on page 18. 2 to address the bioavailability of tourists. In fact, it says that when it came to the access limits of the bill, it was a positive subject in general. Exquisite pleasure in setting up or creating limits. In recent years, we have seen that the number of tourists has increased dramatically, and this has created pressures on land and tourist areas, and this has been lacking when the land of the State is in its own hands. Privates can have their natural limits, but we are assigning limited quality and at the same time we need to keep in mind that this process must be beneficial, and there is no doubt about it. It's very important in this process. Otherwise, I thank you. A senator for an excellent tour of this matter and good answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u40	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1449 of the EEA types, Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u41	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: I signed it as my suggestion, in accordance with 1.mg. 77st. Conventional proposals, that the next meeting program will be: 1st Fishing management, 855th case, law bill from Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, 1. Environment, as well as the rest of the programs proposed by the President of the Generals. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, it is written by Hrafn Gunnarsson. When the proposal was made last night, a meeting was not inferred, so according to tradition, there is a vote at the beginning of the next meeting, i.e. the current meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u42	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir In view of this, Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdóttirs, who are faced with very serious unemployment, have provided an important bill. It's a good thing, but a good thing. paritaprevir However, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter has been asking around town that in some way the opposition to the government is teaching that the matter cannot be arranged. I'd like to keep it at ease. A senator is the head of the trade committee, and I am on that committee. Hv. A senator is one of the members of the council that does not negotiate the matter on her behalf. Hv. A senator is of the same category as a respectable president who does not put the matter on schedule. Hv. A senator is in the same category as the highest. A prime minister who seems not to support the situation. It's us who support the case, Pirates, and the government side, I expect, we want to put the case on schedule for little boat sailors. Let's see what happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u43	Mr. President. I don't know anything about the manners of individual senators and I'm not gonna get involved. On the other hand, it is clear that this type of case cannot be taken to the center of a discussion when trying to close the council. The case came out, as far as I know, yesterday. I just don't like Pirates sending this torpedo into Congress agreements in this way to disrupt things. There are many causes, including those that can be negotiated at council agreements. is negotiated over a number of cases on the board that have been covered during the council for the entire winter. It just goes by itself that you can't finish everything. By putting men against the wall in this way, Congress agreements are upset. Of course, there is nothing more to do than cancel this program arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u44	V.E.G. President. It is unlikely that the head of the prosecuting committee should go to this expedition, to present the Senate case, knowing that there is no more of the majority of them involved in bringing it into the council, and to go on the way of making some mobbing of the country to teach the government side that the matter is not being planned. I've been here 12 years, and I don't remember this kind of work, putting men down so low, going on such a expedition, I have to say. At the same time, there is a professional committee that would address the matter as easily as possible. The head of the Committee does not want to be on a program that made the members of the Central Committee a comment on taking the matter off, but, of course, the chairman of the Committee did not accept it. It's not acceptable to participate. We will not vote in this vote because of the way the head of the employment committee behaves in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u45	A respectable president. This is very unfortunate and occurred at an unfortunate time. The thing is, it's a good thing in itself, but I don't think it's right in these final meters when we're trying to complete a council, and we've been getting it far along here last night, that this case is taken in because it's a bill that, of course, needs quite a discussion. I believe that such a point, at this point, is just not the time to add one thing to the top. We had closed down the file that we had in hand with me and with everyone else. During our discussions with members of our council groups, we had a list that we were working with and sticking to. I don't want to compromise, so the left movement of an offer won't vote for this case, i.e. That we'll be on the red button outside the head of the pro board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u46	Mr. President. Often, little you roll with a heavy load. I would have thought that in this situation, a world of Congress was ready to secure employment in the coastal areas of the country, a small boatman, and a fishing worker in the country, under these circumstances. As director of a professional trade committee, I have tried to make a team with a marine minister to set this matter up over the past few weeks. I have fought for the better interests of beach fishermen and fish workers in this country, and I can't help but continue with this case. True, it was a challenge to bring this matter into the council, and it was not by itself that the government helped, but it could be fully considered at council treaties that it changed the view and felt that this was something important to support the country's work and that it was not available for the high-resurrection period and sent to the coastal fleet inland. I'm on this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u47	Mr. President. For the record, this program proposal is fully designed to ensure the safety of 600 small - boat sailors who are in danger of their jobs during the summer because the law had not been fixed in time. It's not about Congress negotiations, but I'd like it to be very clear. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of a professional committee, had all this year to propose a fix so that things would not go wrong right now. Rather, it suggests two days after the Council's work programme is canceled, two months after the last opportunity was given to bring up new issues so that they can get on the schedule. That's not a good practice. We're in a mess right now. Pirats are making this suggestion now, and especially why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, to try to solve the problem because we need to be careful about the security of these men. It's a simple suggestion, and I hope it's approved. [[The president calls.]] But if she's not approved, it's interesting to see who votes against her.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u48	Mr. President. The situation of this matter is, in fact, remarkable. I'm the chairman of the council now sitting here trying to negotiate the end of the council. The government and the government have taken away a number of cases that I would like to take on this discussion. But in view of the fact that we are working together and trying to close the council and the election season, I do not present a program to establish important issues for them. If the matter we're discussing was a beach fishing case, it would have been one of the top priorities of the board at the bargaining table, I'd have been delighted to vote for it. If that were on the program, I'd agree. But this series of events, this drama set up, both by the head of the professional committee and by the right. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson - I can't do that, or we can join the United States, and we're going to sit next to this payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u49	Mr. President. Here's the head of the House of Independence, talking about the torpedoes of Porta's party. Perhaps it is proper to mention that we are here discussing the bill of directors. We're talking about a bill that the directors told the small boat sailors to stay on the board only if they were to be on the board. We're making it clear that it was bullshit and a lie, if people don't support this program. The position of this case was lied to little boatmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u50	The president asks why. Councilmen must be balanced in their choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u51	Mr. President. We're here at a scene at the theatre of the absurd. Rather than having been in the discussion of important matters at the time, at the natural time, the agreed proposals that lay before, working with it, being earlier on this matter, taking the conversation to settle matters that concern the interests of a number of sailors and their families, we are stuck here in some formality because once again the government, especially the head of a business committee, is an unknown phenomenon in that town. This is a situation that would not have had to come up, but we are standing before her. Me and the council presidents have been sitting around trying to get together for the end of the council. The United States Parliamentary Chairman handled the matter well. There's a lot of good things that have come out of the table, I'm afraid to say, every party and a lot of things we would've wanted to see first. In view of the situation, I'm not going to break that agreement. [[The president calls.]] However, this is a need and an important discussion, and I thank the Pirates for putting it on the program here at the Hall of Congress, but we are at Reunion, who are behind us at the hearing of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u52	A respectable president. I'm on this New Year's Committee of Congress. I'm not going to take myself off her, but I know that a short time at this council is gonna have to make it properly. That's why I'm not going to agree to take it on the program. Since I stay on the motion, I challenge the highest. A seafaring minister whose backpacks contain gems of gold to take one out and stand with the beach for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u53	I have diamonds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u54	- Even if it was a diamond, you'd better pinch it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u55	A respectable president. I've got a lot of heart to go after the Senate, so they say. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir wouldn't have to go and lie to her - that's not big words, a respectable president, it's just a proper description of what happened - as little boat stars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u56	The president asks for moderation in the choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u57	A respectable president. I could begin, but I'll skip that word in the rest of this speech respectfully to a respectable president. She did not have to, she chose to do it. She chose to do so in a way that, of all people, taught the Piranha to stand in the way of the situation by not keeping it in her own contracts, in council contracts, in dignified presidents. She didn't have to. What we have done since then is that we have suggested that the matter be discussed here, and that is very serious. Let's just do it. It would be the right game of the greater part, taking the case up, and accepting it. But no, you can't. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm asking the stakeholder in this case to keep an eye on this vote table because the votes are important. [[The president calls.]] The result matters. [[The president calls.]] A seaman's interests are important and are more than just someone who plays the game of politicians. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u58	A respectable president. Had, would, should, and all his friends--if this had been yesterday or yesterday or at the New Year's Eve. The fact is, the situation is coming up now. We're here now, and there's nothing we can do, either for the Chairman or for the Chairman. Work committee or anyone else to overlook it. Actually, she would have had the right to bring this matter much sooner if she had dared to show the highest order. The seafarer of the horns only because he seems to care exactly about small boat sailors. This does not change the fact that we are here to make sure that they can get the last 48 days of each year assigned to them for a beach hunt. That's all there is to it. So I challenge all of us here, whether people are in a hurry about this or the other, to stop this stupid dance that makes us ashamed, take it out of political lines and arguments, and simply ensures, as we did about salmon fire at the time, when everything was in danger of the West, that our little boatmen can at least caught the 48 - day fish short - lived. It is in our power that it may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u59	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with the words that have shown that this situation did not have to arise. There's a case inside the employment and settlement board, 5.3% of the case, where the beach-fishering is amongst the others. Pull out, like a dog. A senator and director of a professional committee stopped at the Committee. It's a bill as the highest. A sea - fishing minister made progress, including the coastal fishing business. This could have been added to the work of the Committee and to the successful hatching of a beach fishing team. I'm a spokesman for coastal fishing and settlement in the country, but bringing this up in the last few years is an inexplicable process. [[Up front.]] Me and me, we're all willing to work in the summer if a Senate votes with this. In the last days, we have shown that we are willing to work for another month or two more, to benefit our country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u60	Senators are not going on beach fishing while they are at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u61	Mr. President. I'm not involved in this hot discussion here, which seems to be going over, being accused of lying.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u62	That's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u63	- That's not true. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson should think only of following the ways of truth. I haven't lied about anything in this case. The Senate has full opportunity to include them in its prenuptial agreements. But that was not done. That's the whole point. In the pro board, there's a bill from the highest level. A seafaring minister who reduces the labor of coastal fishing and offers to row in all days, so that coastal fishing would have run out much earlier if it had ever been approved. That's the reality. But I will continue to fight for the seas, and for the seas of the land, and I will not be accused of lying to one or to another. That's not my way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u64	A respectable president. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir recently said that sometimes in Iceland it is worse to talk about the crime than to commit it. This reflects on the blessed talk that we heard here from the last speaker, why. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. The facts speak for themselves, these are conversations that took place on Facebook. They're written there. It can be worn as a dog. There a senator compared what she said in her reply. Small boatmen and what they've been told, what they've heard about this matter, where it comes from, and who to blame them for not even being discussed right now. A respectable president. The facts don't lie.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u65	President. I think it was clearly stated by the person on this program that he realizes that this case will not be planned. It's just part of making up a few reasons with some other senator, the head of the employment committee. Of course, the suggestion that such a person is mere showy. I think that all of us must realize that this is virtual, designed for the sole purpose of trying to put people against a wall in some propaganda war outside of these walls. It's not an isolated thing, but it's not helping when we're trying to reach an agreement on the end of the council in a sleazy way. It's not helping.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u66	President. Hv. A senator and a council leader of the Independence Party accuse us of being virtual. Of course, that is not true. The truth is, we're getting reports that it would somehow be awkward for the management parties to put this matter forward right now and make sure that small boat sailors can do their jobs. And it's got to come from me and Pirates, that's the message from the board. Where is it that we have to suggest that the government can be so little to help those who are, in fact, at their highest table? A sea chief inside? Where's the virtual, respectable president when we hear that the left movement has a green supply, it's the Pirates saying they're not teaching that this case can't be on the program? We're simply showing where the show is. We are ready to take this matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u67	Mr. President. This program is a showdown of pity. There is no way of agreeing to something that is put forward to pick up dust and damage other council functions. But most of all -- that's bad, I know -- it's the tiniest populism we have and we don't participate in that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u68	The president asks members of the Parliament to control their cheeriness so that speakers will be heard well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u69	President. Such program proposals do two things; on the one hand, they show the people in a vote in a chamber where the will of men really lies, which is good and democratic. It's good for the Americans to see it. It is the ◯ transgenicism, to be observed in the second century B.C.E. The other is that because the members of the council in this room see that the people of the country are going to see their real will in the case, it puts a political pressure on getting the case through. Is that unlikely? Yeah. Is this possible? Yes, of course it is possible. When they see that it is their responsibility that 700 sailors lose their job or do not get a job, they can, of course, create political pressures to finish it. So this is a good and democratic tool to shed light on where the responsibility lies and possibly to counteract the changes to be made. This is how democracy works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u70	A respectable president. A lot of people are holding me. These program proposals are referred to as mere showliness. There was one thing the greater part could have done, which was agreeing to the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u71	Hv. A senator has to decide the reasons he bears.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u72	They're saying it was pretentious. A respectable president. I can speak again of the President's conference board, if that's his interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u73	It's best to go. A senator is guilty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u74	This matter was called for support. There were little boatmen who called us, worried about their future. That was a good time. Magnúsdóttir This is a documented fact, a respectable president. This proposal is made in the written language. It is a documented fact. This vote is a documented fact. I'll see you at the pro board as often as I can, as long as it takes to finish this case, a respectable president. I think there's plenty of senators here for that. But no, you need to go home. A council has to be completed. [[The president calls.]] It must be done as soon as possible. That's what it's all about, a respectable president. Demonstrative.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u75	Mr. President. Now it's over 100 people every month of their unemployment rights. That means that they need to search the community and its helpers for help to survive. This period has been extended repeatedly by the United States and is now making the final attempt to extend it to six months. ASI has called for it, and so have local societies. We also suggest that unemployment improvements increase to 95% of the minimum income insurance, as ASI has also called for. Before they make up their minds, I ask them to answer in mind what our community is able to gain by keeping them in very poor straits that have had to bear the greatest burden in a pandemic. Our proposals in the United States are to minimize the damage caused by long-term lack of work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u76	Mr. President. Of course, we support this case, but I come up here to encourage the government to finance in an adequate way the activities being carried out at the State Analysis and Counseling Centre, where several hundred children are now waiting on a waiting list of over two years. Two years of waiting for essential services for children with severe developmental defects can permanently affect their life and health. We must do better out there, Mr. President, my dear councilman, but of course we support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u77	V.E.G. President. In this matter, I propose an adjustment as part of the appeal and as part of both parents in the affairs of their children. The suggestion does not cost anything, but it does involve a right, as I entered before, that the concept of a parent also includes the one with regular association. As we know, the participation of parents in child development is of vital importance, and it is essential that children living in two households not be excluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u78	A respectable president. We vote here on a matter that has been in progress for the entire terms of this term and that has established a number of people, on another thousand people, representing all political groups here at the General, representatives of all recruitment programs involved in child affairs, representatives of rural society and free partners and others, cases that set up a new welfare system for children across all other systems, a huge system change. I'd like to thank all those who have been involved in this entire election period, representing all members of the Parliament here at the General Assembly. Thank you very much for your background. paritaprevir The Lord's Kristjánsdóttir Signor Signý, for which the matter has been held up at the council. I expect that we can continue to ensure good cooperation in the implementation of these laws and that they will make a lot of progress for children and children's families in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u79	Madam President. Of course, Piranar and I support these important issues that are involved in the overall change in child protection and the integration of services. The premonition was about personal protection and the safety of paediatric sensitive personal information was assured. We brought you some adjustment proposals that were cut down at 2nd. I'm sorry. It is unnecessary to be unable to guarantee this security by delaying the entry of the law for a few months in order to ensure that technical solutions are in place to ensure that it is safe to do so. Yet, this is a great justice for children and is about to catch children who face difficult situations early and are important early intervention, including children. to protect children from violence Of course, we support these issues, but the responsibility of the government is great to ensure that concern about the lack of personal security will not be realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u80	Mr. President. It is a special joy to reach the turning point of completing votes on these three big cases, of enormous importance, and thereby highlight the desire of society of all to take a new course and a better one in the affairs of children in Iceland. It's wishful, and I'm looking forward to seeing the future of society taking in the production of these new laws as well as the leading bill has been. Then we'll make a better future for children in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u81	Mr. President. For Icelandic society, for children and their future, this is an enormously important development. I'd like to commend one person in particular in here, but that's why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir, who continued to lead the Parliamentary Committee, which worked the entire ideal period with such firmness and determination and was able to attract very different groups into this committee. The arrangement for this entire election period was such an example that I think we should all consider if we can't do something like that. It's a good thing. There was a tiny poem there on the final meters of personal protection, but we have to trust that the government will speed up the development of a database so that we will not compromise the risk of any sensitive confidential information on an airplane. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u82	A respectable president. The four children's issues are excellent, but unfortunately, in many respects we would have had to work harder, work at ease, and, unfortunately, they are partly worked in quicksand, and the quicksand is the wait list. One child on a waiting list is too much. 1,000 children on the wait list is panic. We must also make sure that both parents always have the right to their children. That's basic. We have to start changing this system. I say yes to this case, hoping it'll improve, but it'll take time. It tells itself that while children are on the wait list for two, three years, while it is not solved and there's also a problem in that system, there's much to do. I really hope that within a few years this will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u83	Mr. President. Here we vote on a very positive matter, an important matter that has been proposed, and I know it for myself from a member of the Parliamentary Committee how much and a good job there was done, a work that hopefully will be an example for such work in other matters in the future, so to speak. I'd like to, at the same time as I declare that the Scott's going to support this case, to point out a change in motion as good as good. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir introduced and is from a smaller part, a small adjustment in many ways, which still means so much to many people, and is about to identify them as parents who regularly associate with their children, i.e. that it's not just a guardian. I just think that somehow it has been forgotten about the whole story. This is important, and I have to say, as it is, if any community should have these things completely on the clear, then we're in Iceland with our family forms. This is of utmost importance, not just for those parents who are accidentally left behind but primarily for their children, and this is for children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u84	A respectable president. By agreeing with the primary warnings in the children's affairs, the day will be brighter, and I am convinced that once their induction is completed, the hearts of many children who are sorry to bind now because integrated services are not available. It was a great privilege to present this case to a welfare committee, and I just want to thank the cooperation with the committee in particular and a number of good tips I received from the Council of Parliament, the Líneik Sævarsdóttir Savarsdóttir. I'd like to say about the transition that took place. paritaprevir Kolbrún Kolbin noted that it does not add anything because it initially states that it is a parent or a guardian. It cannot be added. A parent is always a parent, whether he has little or much contact with the child.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u85	I'd just like to thank Halldóra Mogensen for holding the privacy and protection of the Committee and the rest of the budget at 2nd. etc. which was rejected. We must hope that it will turn out well. When I look at this as Pirati, I'm looking at the protection of civil rights, which is a natural baseline in our core policy. And because it protects the rights of children against violence and evil treatment, etc. so it is that the whole case, even if it is missing in terms of privacy or personal protection, as the Persian protection has interpreted it, is better for children's civil rights. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u86	A respectable president. What a happy day it is when we have approved an integrated service in behalf of successful children that places them in all institutions to provide children and parents with an integrated ministry! The same is true of this bill, which is a very important part of progress in children's affairs, and it is my support. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have come to this work for their cooperation. As we have seen, it was truly good and enjoyable. But I'd also like to make a good deal of personal protection in these laws, and all the information that now goes past institutions is a legal authority, whether it's Mentor or Health, or anything else. Then I'd like to have a database for integration in itself that is in no way necessary for integration, but an important support for it and, of course, a personal protection in its structure is required. [[The president calls.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u87	Mr. President. This is an important and technical complex matter. It was a late issue, and it was incomplete, as the opinion of much shows. Hence, we middle class members arranged for this to be referred to the government with the goal of furthering it. In view of the facts, this matter must be the responsibility of the greater part. That's why we Middle-class people won't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u88	Mr. President. I just want to say we're happy to be agreeing to these laws here today, the electric law. This is a huge deal. Here we are looking forward to the future. These are climate projects in our community for the next 10, 20, 30 years, and the law will become a major part of Iceland's integration into climate change for decades. I am very pleased with the work that was carried out on a professional committee in connection with this matter. This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u89	V.E.G. President. Building up the delivery security of electricity has been moving at the speed of the snail in recent decades. The delivery security of electricity is part of the basic international services, and the scattered settlements have been left behind, especially in the north and the West. If this case had been put forward earlier and done thoroughly, the alleged snail would have reached a slightly faster pace. That's why I'm embarrassed by this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u90	Mr. President. During the last Monday, I asked for a report on the cervical case waiting for about 12 weeks, I think, or 13, at least since February, so it's been quite many weeks. Then we received the comments, a respectable president, from the president that the report would come the following day. The following day, when we spoke on Wednesday, we were told that a report would be received the following day, which was then yesterday, and still does not pave the subject of a written report. Now I don't know if the report is thousands of pages, but it takes the top. One week's health - care minister does not give a report of a test reading that does not increase confidence or credibility in the fact that the report is written in an independent way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u91	V.E.G. President. I'm here to say that it is most disturbing that we have not yet received this report. There's also another thing I've seen in a group of women on Facebook, i.e. cannot be noted for the complaints received by the Allied agent during the unrecognised report. This goes hand-to-hand, leaving women in complete uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u92	A respectable president. My business is the same. There have been several times when we have been told that a report on the basic health care of women is expected, that it is due on that day or on the day, and that the report will never come. I wondered why. I know the report is ready, the results are available, and I know these are the answers women want to hear. It is important that this information be presented, and it is important that conversation about the results be made in this chamber so that the public is exposed to the grounds of these health ministers' decisions that have, unfortunately, caused women to be unsure about basic health care for many months.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u93	A respectable president. I come here in the same business as those who came up here before me. At the same time, I would like to express a measure of sadness over the complete disintegration of the council program. The president of the council, who is actually representing the majority of the members of this council, has done so. What does that mean? This means that the Senate's surveillance role is reduced to the European Commission. Why do I say that? Yes, we do not have an opportunity to discuss a cervical scan, if it does come at all, in order to discuss the extent of uncertainty that a health minister's decision has brought to thousands of women in the country. We can't talk about the report of a fishing minister, actually it's not yet arrived, and we're still waiting, about the ownership of the largest fishing industry in the country's commercial life. We cannot follow very specific matters at the council with regard to the minister and the government because the routine and routine programs of the council have been cut off so that unprepared inquiries, discussions about reports, discussions on various topics cannot be resolved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry and at least a lot of concern, especially when it is clear how long we'll be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u94	Mr. President. I agree with those who have spoken before me. Of course, it is imperative that this report be made during the course of the Council. Now she's been studying for two days, but the content of the women's health report is so important that I'm convinced that both members of Congress and the public will quite see through the secretary's fingers, even if they do involve any spelling errors - so: In with the report. But I have quite good news, my dear senators. When I was walking up to the dining room earlier, it was the highest. I'm sure a health minister for an interview with RUSH who had it covered on the report. She said the report will be at the end of the week. When she was asked if she would come today, she said: " Probably. So let us hold on to hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u95	A respectable president. I went to check dates and dates. I requested a medical report on March 2nd. Of course, with me on this matter, 26 senators were accepted, and the report was accepted. Throughout this time and long ago, women have been very uncertain about the effect these organizational changes have on their health, health, and even life. I reiterate and have mentioned earlier in the conference board that these answers are available at the Department of Health because the answers are about the basis for the health minister himself. She knows the answers. It would not have been necessary to get this information to the council for 14 weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u96	Mr. President. I just wanted to add briefly to this discussion that I have often wondered about the right way to handle the problem. Ministers often give reports and answers to questions late and bad and, in fact, often in some political games, but sometimes just because they don't win. All right. I wondered if the tools that we have to run after this could not be somehow better. And I just want to put it back into the council next fall, which I'm not going to participate in myself, that there's a reason to pick it up, and I just want to point out that when people took tapes at their video stores in the old days, it paid a fine if they didn't return them at the right time. If you don't pay off your apartment at the right time, you'll pay for a tractor. Maybe we need some kind of financial impulse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u97	Mr. President. We could then see that a minister who delivers reports too late gets less time in a talk chair to promote his views. Maybe that's the ticket. But I agree with what's been presented here as well as about the importance of the overall surveillance role, which is being severely reduced by these superintendents. Secretary of health. For 14 weeks it has been on a report where the questions are: What was the basis for your decision on a particular task? And that it takes 14 weeks to answer this, of course, is completely unacceptable and that it takes four days for a study to read this report, of course, is so ignorant that we all know why it is not coming in here. They are hoping that the council will be returned at the time of the report. It's just that way. I'd like to say, having listened to a discussion at the British Parliament where the Ministers have to represent their case in front of all eyes, I think it would also be good for us to take up some sort of a phenomenon like that here at the General Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u98	Mr. President. I would like to agree with those who have spoken about the extent of conflict, that it may take 14 weeks to report to the council, which is really nothing more than to print out documents that should be written in the Ministry's journal, documents related to the Ministry's decision to transfer oncologists from the Cancer Company to Land Hospital. It's been bad and it's still going bad. Recent reports that women are not allowed to have samples screened, although they themselves are considered to be valid. No, it is only the system that controls whether a woman gets a sense of security, the necessary service, the assurance that a display is taken for observation. This is a lack of respect for women who seek health care. It would be disrespectful to the Council to plan on waiting for the council in order not to stand here to account for this mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u99	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the WHO legislation, which was prepared after the decision was made to vote on September 25, which was discussed with the directors of all the classes represented at the General Assembly last summer. The bill suggests that the current legislature of the 151th legislature shall be extended until September 25, 2021, for the election has been set on that day by the release and release of a letter of Congress and General election to the Council, as per Article 24. The constitution. The creation of a regular General 2021, then a 152th legislature, should be unchanged on September 14 of the second. If this bill is to be legalized, that sentence and assembly will be postponed, according to Article 22 and 24. The Constitution will be set up after the President of Iceland has rounded up the General Assembly after the end of the total election. Mr. President. In 1st. Thirty-five. The Constitution is recommended for the date of the meeting with the Generals on a regular basis. It says that he is on October 1 each year. However, this time period can be changed by law, as stated in Article 2. The same articles. This was done by law No. 84/2011, when the council was changed and the meeting day has been set for another Tuesday in September, and it would be necessary for the General to meet regularly that day. However, it is evident that the sentence of the regular General Assembly was so soon before the election was scheduled on September 25. An election battle will then be expected to be in the limit of regular Congress, and also a financial bill, which I would consider strange to do on the part of an advanced government, which would actually be an empty document in view of the possibility of elections. This change, therefore, takes into account that a new government gives a budget bill for the year 2022 at the first meeting of the Fall Summit during a new term period in accordance with Article 42. The board of directors, the General Assembly Act, and the official financial law. Mr. President. Since the proposed General elections will take place before the completion of the terms of the General Assembly, a month before, it is clear that a council has to be interrupted on the basis of Article 24. The constitution to produce elections. An announcement of a violation of Congress includes the formal decision on election day and shall be made by the General election within 45 days of that date. According to this, if the total election is scheduled for September 25, you can first report a breach on August 12 of the year. As mentioned earlier, in accordance with the regulations of the Constitution, I will seek the power of the President of Iceland to break up a council that would then be announced on the first of the 12 August. Mr President, I'd like to be held accountable that the council can continue, although a breach has been announced, for the general council is holding its commission to the election day, as shown by Article 24. The constitution. Therefore, it is not excluded that the General Assembly would be called together for a subsequent meeting in August if necessary, unless absolutely independent of this matter, it is not excluded. However, in the event of an election, as is always the case, it is assumed that meetings will be postponed on appropriate notice so that political groups and candidates will give a reasonable amount of time to prepare and participate in a campaign. Finally, in the bill, the Council Council of 2021, which is expected to be elected off, will be held until the regular meeting day of Generals 2022, which is the second Tuesday of September that year in accordance with the Council of Congress. Mr. President. I suggest that the case be referred to the management and monitoring committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u100	President. Prime Minister calls the budget that would be presented just before elections meaningless. It is only a meaningless document if the current government does not intend to proceed after the election. That's why I don't understand, unless that's exactly the plan. Is that the plan, Mr. Honorable President? Is that what's being told us with this bill? It was a government, it was the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who set this date for elections in a very unfortunate time for the financial process. To call the budget a blank document just before the election I find a little interesting wording, I must say. You would have thought that it was just following the course set in a financial program in that budget and prospective government cooperation, regarding the appearance of the next year. It's nothing but honest to do it before elections, you'd think. But it's clearly a blank piece of paper. I can't quite figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u101	Mr. President. As we know, the last financial plan that we actually took care of is virtually unchanged from the previous one. I said, and it may well be at ease. A senator would not agree or have not heard, that I believed it a responsible position that the government was not preaching new and major matters just before election. And it's exactly what I'm saying here, and I thought it was half-changing that the government even proclaimed new and major budgets ten days before elections where it is clear that there may be a change in the government after election and a new government would always have to put in new budgets. I believe it really is quite meaningless that the Council is meeting to discuss budgets that would likely be either unchanged in relation to a financial program as a formality or as a new form of promise of some kind of future 15 minutes in election. I don't think either one of us is responsible enough to be completely honest with it, and then we're just... A senator disagrees about this. I would also like to remind you that this law is completely comparable to the principles previously approved by the Council in connection with elections at an unusual time, so there is no new agreement, and so far we have generally agreed that we feel that we are better at doing things like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u102	Madam President. The last two times that were elections at a strange time was what didn't happen to the government's choice but it was a special choice for this government to have elections at this time, which is very uncomfortable for the financial process. It is all set up to bring money to the council for discussion in the fall. It can be different, but it's just not that fast at the moment. The Ministry of Economics has taught us on a budget board that will be the basis of the budget for a summer that will then appear to us only after the election for that government to add something like it or something like it. I would actually consider it very honest to contribute at least the basis for a financial bill to talk about what the foundation of the budget is for the coming year before election, so we can all have a very informed discussion about what the situation is. But it's supposed to be after the election, and I don't know why.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u103	Mr. President. There's nothing to hide. We have just agreed to a financial program that lays the foundation of work ahead. Then there will be new national interest predictions. It will lay the foundation for the financial work ahead. She's not a secret. There are no secrets in this. It's just about what's a good work ethic on the part of the Generals, and I think it's a very good work ethic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u104	Madam President. This matter is primarily about bad choice at an election date. The reason to choose this date, not the second date, was that it might escape before the weather would be bad. There are some pretty bad weather earlier in September, so that reasoning is just enough. The date of September 25, just over a month before the unexpected elections we had in 2016 and 2017, is an informed choice of the government. The government's budget assumes that the Council will start making budgets and discussing budgets at the beginning of September and that it is preferably completed by the end of November or so. They're what we're looking for. We faced the relatively difficult problem of 2016 and 2017, accepting funds from a brand new government - and even being a business director here in 2016 and until the beginning of 2017 - where we had to go through budgets during heavy handouts. It wasn't a good job. The conclusion of choosing an election at this time of the year is that the budget will simply be hand - to - hand. If a new government takes place, the budget will be delayed for a year or so. In fact, the election effort and the like cannot be taken into account until the year 2022 for the budget of 2023. It's just a quick work on hand gels. At the top, there is also a need to work on financial policies in this very short period of time. I don't think it's responsible to choose this date. I don't think it's responsible to skip it until after the election to show the situation the way they look at the budgets according to updating national interests, etc. If the case is accepted, I think a financial committee and the council should still be granted at least. The financial strategy that will be implemented in the summer, that groups and financial committees get in the hands of elections in the fall of the foundation that the budget as it was won so that we can focus and show our fingerprints on the budget from the best foundation we have ever had. However, that is not so easy, for in recent years the budget has been relatively transparent. They haven't been very helpful until you get a little more from the problems you face on what the other means. If the government's policy is set aside on the budget and the only foundation remains, it may be very helpful to get a discussion of the economic situation, the size of the legal tasks needed to see the space available to deal with the problems we are dealing with on a day - to - day basis. I'd say it's a responsible stand. Although we do not receive the necessary financial laws of the government, such as the United States, we will receive at least one. this document in the hands that will be won this summer and is the basis for the next year's funding so that we can, and all the classes, use it in the campaign to explain our vision of how the budget of the coming year will come to look. At least I'm going to try to get it through on the budget. I'm going to see it happen, and I'm simply calling for the highest support. Prime Minister in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u105	A respectable president. I'm here giving you a new proposal for this otherwise fine bill, a change proposal that actually involves far more extensive and more powerful rights and economic management for consumers. I'm going to read from this short report that suggests that on mortgage laws there will be a new article allowing consumers to change the price-separated mortgage on uncertain loans. There already is a comparable source in 3mg. Thirty-three. The law that pays off loans taken in a foreign currency. Indeed, consumers are vulnerable to sudden gang swings when borrowing in foreign currency. consumers are also vulnerable to sudden inflation when borrowing. Therefore, the same options should be available to consumers in both cases. If these proposals are adopted, and then the bill changed, the consumers will be able to request that the borrower offer reimburse the reimbursement of the reimbursed loan take an unsurpassed loan and if the borrower is obliged to grant the consumer the benefits of such a payment, as long as the other conditions of the law are met. I'd like to talk about those conditions, but they're now so small here that it's embarrassing, both for me and for you who are forced to watch this, to see me try to look into this. First, though, it is said that the loan is not seriously underestimated when it comes to the consumer's ability to request these measures, secondly, that the overall debt of consumers does not increase the change that is different from what is now, and third, that the consumer's load does not increase. These conditions need to be met. As the situation is today, we know, when everyone takes a loan, whether it's securable or irresponsible, they can choose it at the beginning. Sadly, though, as most of us know, most people who are less fortunate are looking for the credit because they already carry less money. On the other hand, insurance and on loans are shifting, especially as is already the case with inflation, in effect on the back of the loan. Although at first it is more beneficial for the borrower to accept the insurance loan in that way so that it carries a lower amount of payment and they further collect in it, unfortunately, the line is only up to the payload. When it comes to the end of this priceless loan, I can't even, and neither can you imagine what the amount will be. But this is the so - called poisonous cocktail. This is merely to assume that the consumers who already have a securities loan will not only be entitled to a credit card but also to the borrower's full and uncivilized right to the borrower should apply for a correction or a debt change so that if it is not, it will be unsecured and that the person does not depend on the cost or higher payment rate, and in reality it does not belong to him, if he does not. ... andallthethings are fine, like they should be to the lender, have to go back to credit evaluations, and all that goes with it. Depending on the nature of the case, the individual must be willing to continue with the loan, even if in another form. I believe, more dignified President, this brief change requested here for this otherwise fine bill to be done because it is only more beneficial for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u106	President. It's the finest adjustment you've ever made. But I also wanted to ask. A senator's interest in loans is limited by changing interest rates. If they are disloyal, are they any better than insured loans? If the change in interest of the bank's adverse decision remains, however, it is likely to be partly bound to an inflation development anyway, there is no direct connection to the change as in the pricey part. Besides borrowing prices, the absolute failure is because the index of consumer prices is a unit of specific trends in society. As soon as you start using that measuring device to bind prices in the community, you have a specific cycle that is a crazy cocktail. I'd also like to roll up with a little bit of what. A senator's ability to lend with variable interest, which banks can only decide to step back and forth on some personal level, there's probably some guidelines behind it, but they're not very accessible, whether it's not quite as bad as a loan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Really, it is only a matter of individual choice that if he chooses to release himself from a loan, he is talking about the individual's choice of borrowing. We naturally know that even judicial cases have been put to the test as to whether it is really legitimate that credit agencies can employ this variable growth system, such as it does. A senator rightly points out. In fact, it should be minimal that we know what we are about to do when we take the biggest loan of our life, which lies in getting a roof over our heads, those who are fortunate enough to have it. So there are many things to look at. I think it's a poisonous cocktail in every direction, these variable interest rates that no one really knows where to go and where to develop because they just swing away with the inflation like insurance. But it does not change the fact that they are being borrowed when it comes to paying, for example. I'm sure you'll be sure that the loan that puts the amount of time on the loan is completely high, and straight up in the air -- I'm sorry, President. I know it's Icelandic, but I lost myself on it. Either way, I think this is it. "What. Senator, one step at least It is better with the financial advantages of loan agencies, and all creditors always have over their customers and creditors. We can do better in fashion if we're gonna do it. This would be a good first step, and then we'll just move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u108	President. Hv. A senator speaks of financial advantages, but I think that is even more than that. In Iceland, credit agencies are simply too much to use. They can always wear belts and bracelets, and in fact, they don't take risks themselves. They do not share the risk with borrowing but throw it all on him. There's no teamwork in it, and I think it makes this stable growth system, a super-growing system, because it's simply the creditor's advantage that interest is high, that it increases, and that money can be crushed from the loans. One wonder if we need more discipline and money on loans, so we don't go into the small loans, they're nothing but capitalists. We have a wonderful problem with our loan environment in Iceland. It has been tried to do some recent work by going to a lower growth policy, which is just global development, and perhaps not too much to commend us for following it, but it is an essential step for us to get into the disciplined environment of consumer protection in loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer, and I really thank him for everything he said. I couldn't have said that better. I totally agree with what. A senator for the arrangements we have had here by means of the oppression that the insurance has already been when we have repeatedly been dealing with inflation. We saw what the economic collapse did back then and how many thousands of families actually lost their homes, where their pay loads of money all night to die. In the turmoil we are going through right now, in this pandemic and everything that goes with it, the category of people, for example. the bill for canceling insurance on a consumer loan, even though it would be only to put one shoulder band on a committed home in the country. Instead of wearing girdles and shoulders, however, borrowers in the livestock and seaboards are from head to foot with their hat and everything. It's as simple as that. There's no difference, like what's wrong. A senator pointed out and then agree with what I said, that, in fact, the financial agency always gets the benefit of the doubt at the cost of the consumer. That's the way it is. This adjustment is only a small step in the right direction, but it is of utmost importance, that the borrower may request to put the loan into the chamber he himself chooses without the extra expenses or higher payment, let alone that he needs to return to his credit evaluation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u110	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for a good suggestion. This is a clever way to try to limit further the damage the insurance can do. I was a little pleased to read that suggestion from what happened. Senator. But now the view of insurance that has changed in recent years has changed, and if it has not happened, it is this, in turn, to the fact that cheating loans are becoming more common than prices when new loans are taken, which is a very good development. In the past, it was found that interest levels are very high in Iceland. Despite a dramatic drop in recent years, it is vast. This is twice as high and even better than what is known in Europe. In view of that, I wondered why. A senator has some perspective on what needs to be done. This adjustment may be a little short-term, but in the long run, we have to kill the inflation -- no, the insurance policy, excuse me, but maybe the inflation too, I don't know. But insurance, we need to get rid of it. I wonder what. A senator has some particular idea of what would be a logical step toward finally getting rid of the bad ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. How are we supposed to get rid of the dissatisfaction that is insurance? As I mentioned earlier, it may be filtering in over time what harmful things it really is and, like, coo. A senator speaks of, and there are others who are reaching out for disloyal loans. But as I would point out, these adjustments put on more effort to give everyone the opportunity to get rid of the valuable loan and to go on cheating loans without resulting in an additional cost, higher payment rate, or something like that. The fact is, insured loans have lower pay loads, making them go to less income - rich people. What should we do to get out of this? It is simply a setting of comparable rules, and we did when the insurance was set up with a single line of pens. The ideal General of the Icelanders, the legislature, has to get rid of it, that's as simple as it is. First, we can agree to the first step in that direction, the headquarters of the Shockers, who decide to cancel the insurance insurance on the consumer loan. We called it the Covid case, and in effect, we tried to use it when all the grounds for it were here and all red flags were raised about the fact that there would be inflation after this pandemic, and, of course, the fact was that. On the contrary, it's the highest. Financial Ministers and others insist that inflation is subsidized, it was probably high to 6% on a monthly basis. We used to talk about it as 4.3%, 4.6% on a six - year basis or one - year - old, but when we take it out on a monthly basis, it has been up to 6%. So better, if sufficient, and those who carry the insurance will really be able to feel how their loans go up completely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u112	Mr. President. I agree with this, and it's true that in general, it's those who are trapped in insurance loans who pay for the party, i.e. Every time the inflation fire comes. Governments could be used to prevent this. I'm sorry, we've only had quite a lot of classical conservativeism - and, yes, interest - for the country's economy for a very long time. [[Economic security.]] I would like to use the second answer to ask him why. A senator only into the bill we are facing. Now I've had a bit of a bad time since it came out, especially because it was very late. That's what worries me all the time. You think that somehow you're trying to cheat a man, but after going through it on a financial and business committee, I can't help but think, "Yes, as a national cash service device, it's perhaps justified that the Navy has these tools to limit the debt rate in real estate loans and consumer loans. However, this may adversely affect the fact that those who would remain relatively limited if the Sentencing bank were to use the resources are those with the slightest ability to invest in housing. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament: Does she see the potential to be abused in any way, in view of the fact that there have been in some way a very long time? Or if she thinks it's just gonna work out. If this is likely to work, if it is not likely to be used, what should we do? [[The president calls.]] Is it really the national interest we're told it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. I can easily understand why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy because I was wondering this too when I read e.g. The comments with the bill I consider as a whole, though, are worth it to come out here and be worthy of our acceptance. What seemed mainly to be the concern, as in the German Union, was that this source, which is being given in the context of further extramaritals, could even lead to their failure to borrow in terms of borrowing. If that were to happen, it would be very bad. But we have had disappointments before. I'll keep it, yeah. paritaprevir Smára Mccarthy, that we can only cross our fingers and say, "Hell sight and smile will save the day" until the next thing you know about this. But it could be done better, more so. But, overall, I think we're on the right track, let alone if we'd gotten married to cancel the insurance insurance on a consumer loan to ensure the debt-settling families, many of whom have a great deal of pain in nearly Iceland's income in unemployment, where about 20,000 people are out of work and where, in fact, we've been under pressure on a lease in this housing ticket, the incredible housing we're dealing with right now. But, hey. paritaprevir Smára Mccarthy. I still think we're going the right way just until we get the stone in our head and we have to admit something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u114	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a change in valid laws that were considerably more open than this bill in terms of the point under consideration. The laws were given, not necessarily with the aim of using these methods, but rather that such methods could be used if these specific conditions were to arise in the economy. They have been used little, yet they have had considerable effect. I'm going to enter it in my speech. We need to consider the influence that the law has had so far and whether the changes presented here will improve in view of that experience. For those newcomers, I'm going to briefly read the main points of the 27th paragraph. The law, which says, by permission of the President: ◯ At 1st. add three new terms, as follows: The maximum total mortgage budget may be from five times to nine times the annual income of consumers. The maximum payment of a mortgage's mortgage can be studied 25◯50% of consumer monthly provisions. The provisional element refers to a continuing income ranging from direct taxes and fees. This is the government's right to lay the lines on how the system should intervene in free contracts. I think it matters that with this change, it is actually being made that some kind of principle rather than that it is a caution device that can be used when the situation calls for it. For a few reasons, this matter concerns me. It clearly reduces business freedom, and this adds to its systems. Although a previous bill did so, it may have been more a precautionary measure. Here I really feel that the state is calling for more system intervention and that the system controls what kind of loans people can take. This reduces the potential for money - stricken people to borrow to obtain property. Let us consider just how these developments have been in the past few years, including those in the United States. The years since the bill listed here for a change were agreed on. There's a good deal of it, and I suppose most or all members of the Senate know that people don't get credit money because they don't have a lot of money to live up to the conditions set. Nevertheless, in many cases, these people pay the monthly amount in rent, but they would have to pay as a payment on a mortgage. Then, Mr. President, we must be faced with a flaw in this system, that people cannot get the chance, as the generations before, to build up property, but instead of paying more than a month in rent. This is primarily unfair, but it is also undesirable for society's development. For a long time, it was the goal of at least Some groups, especially the Independence Party, say that everyone has the opportunity to build up an estate and, especially, a place of his own. This intervention reduces their potential for getting into the group, getting into what is sometimes called the stairway of the real estate market. For decades, money - related people in Iceland have had the opportunity to build property. When loans are borrowed to pay down payment on property, this has proved to be a great incentive. There is a great incentive for you to take advantage of what you're working on because once you get your loans and you get to buy your apartment, they've always worked hard to pay off and build up their assets. This is likely to take such an opportunity from people. That's not progress, as far as I'm concerned. When the banks refuse a loan application, they have even referred to rules and said: We would like to lend you, but the rules that the government doesn't allow. In any case, there are well - known examples of these events that have been reported publicly. Further interpretation of the maximum amount of payment per person may be added to the rules for maximum share of the values already set. With this change, I believe that the state is increasingly intervening people's freedom to negotiate and make it harder for those who earn money to get back up, get out of the way, can start to create property in housing. Then I reiterate what I said earlier: The human income when it is starting, especially young people, does not necessarily reflect the income they are about to make. Young people in Iceland have always wanted their own place to live. Many have started very young and with relatively low income to begin with, but when they are proud to buy their apartments, they have increased their work and increased their pay by age. As is known, income increases with age and typically reaches peaks at mid - life's age when the load of payment may be the most important, and people are closer to building up as much as they can. This access block -- in fact, you can call it just the access block - a group of real estate owners, I think. I'm going to refer to a brief paragraph of the bill, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ As an assessment of the appropriate limits for the maximum total financial loans of the annual disposition of teas and the climax of the payment of mortgage loans from monthly provisions, the experience of neighboring countries, the research in this field, and the status of the estate market in Iceland was looked to. Then we can explain that there are other ways of doing this in other lands. In particular, though, countries with all the emphasis on renting and people either for decades have been pointed into the tenet rather than trying to build up property or simply the north and the other exception. In the countries around here, it has been just the highest incomes that have made their own housing. This has been different in Iceland. In fact, evolution has been, and especially since the collapse of the bank, towards a higher proportion of people having become tenants, which makes them much known by the judges mentioned earlier. They can't get into the real estate market and even have to pay more rent than they would have to pay to make their own property. Is it not true that consumers and financial institutions can be trusted to determine who can be borrowed? Over the years, especially when society was smaller and more familiar with borrowers, credit agencies often and frequently decided, e.g. in smaller towns in countries where people know their neighbors well, to give people a chance because the financial agency may be more personal and believe in the individual. Usually, they lived up to their expectations and worked hard to make a home. Now that I'm running out of time, I'm just going to step back to another text in the section of the series entitled The Basic Issue. The more important it is, the more important it is, the more important it is, the more important it may be, the more important it may be, the more important it may be. However, this is actually a matter of laying the groundwork for such a distinct application of the law. I couldn't get into it anymore because I was going to discuss the part that was going to lead to increased systems. We see again and again in the matter of Congress, and it has been a long time that the establishment of a town decision is being made on how society is controlled and even, as in this case, on what sort of agreements can be made. When the law was given at the time, under the circumstances of the day, and the law was very close to them, I thought it appropriate to have a particular caution device. Then, somehow, the system always continues to evolve, and what was once to be used in need can become a habit without the introduction of a lawgiver, without the introduction of an elected representative. In more and more areas, we can see that decisions that are deeply and directly involved in people's lives are taken from unscrupulous representatives in town. And what should voters do when it comes to elections, and they disagree with their share or feel that society should be controlled in another way? How should they react? They cannot punish those who made their decisions in elections. They have to choose groups ready to change this, re-enact democracy, and do what they say they're going to do, have some vision, have some means to follow it, and plan to govern in accordance with the promises made, not just to divide the ministers and then to put the government of the land into the hands of unciviled officials.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u115	President. This is a very important case. Because of today's housing market shortage, this market is open for lack of employment. When the government's operations are taken, as they have been done here, where money is being pumped into the housing market and reduced interest, housing prices have gone up significantly. It is interesting to examine only the circumstances and the sums in this regard. Five-to-nine-fold loans can be taken according to annual allowances and the share of payment loads is reported to be 25◯50% of monthly donations. How does it look? Someone in the fifth level of income has about 330,000 bucks. If that's the condition of the provisional income, there are about 4 million a year in pay, which translates into 20◯36 million. K. The loans, and the provisions, to which the total amount of money is 25 to 50%, have a person with less than 170,000 bucks. It should just get away from the line on the conditions here. Someone who is, for example. in the fifth level of income, a loan of 36 million may be available to buy an apartment. But the mystery of all of this is how a person with this provision can gather to begin with what is more important to pay back. It's the rent market problem, as it has been here, that the loan is much lower than the rent price. It creates a vicious circle in which one in a rented house will never be able to collect funds to pay on an apartment. This is a problem, and there are solutions in many other countries that are interesting and interesting to consider. At first, such a standard is available in many other countries. When I was living in the United States, Obama was working very hard to make sure that no more than 40% of provisions should be made for housing. It would be something that people should aim for in order to absorb and keep before everything else. It is good to have such a standard, but the question is, Is it necessary to put them in law? This could have negative effects, as has been pointed out in the reviews, but it could also have the effect that other long - term possibilities and even lower interest rates can be afforded to buy property to people with less income, because that is the importance of the whole system, the part of the pension system is to have a roof over their head without debt when people retire. There is not enough talk about this important point. When people retire, they usually do very little if they are also paying debts of housing, let alone rent. It is extremely important to do what is right and to do well in a housing market in Iceland. A roof over the head, the weather, and the winds are like that. The system structure that we now have for older years is expected to provide an undeserved home. Otherwise people will be in trouble, of course not all, not those with enormous salary and no need to worry about that part, but for most of us, it is not easy, and it is not likely to go through a life relatively tirelessly and to come to a debtless home for the later years. This matter could help something in that direction, but it is not enough. These criteria are good, but the resources to ensure that people's privacy at retirement is something missing, and we still have to see them appear to us. There may be some resources, such as a lease contract, in which people are actually in a rented apartment but the rent that is paid accumulates into pay on pay. Such an arrangement would be, for example, an arrangement. one possibility. Another possibility, as in some countries, might be that people buy little by little. That may be 100% rent - house property, but gradually it buys four square feet [3 m], thus reducing the rent to the property. There are plenty of solutions that could be tested. Actions can be performed such as building a social home that will become a marketing home later after the generation that has been completed into the social setting. This will be a matter of concern about apartments where new social housing replaces the older one going out. Thus, those with a lower pay period of safety for the upper year can be guaranteed. There are many possibilities for action to be made, which may come in line with these changes. This alone is not enough, more is needed. It would be interesting to see the programs that should follow with this, about how to guarantee different income groups the possibility of obtaining a debtless roof over their heads. There's something I feel like is missing, a scene. At first, people may have a second or third level of income. Those at first income are usually students, or not regular workers, or for several other reasons they are on that low income. But the criteria are for a person who is in a different level of income. What does it look like from youth up to age, bringing an individual with no debt to his head? What does it look like? There is something that we should have available so that people know what is being aimed at, how they can arrange their affairs in a way that makes them produce these results that are necessary to enable the other part of the pension system, a debtless home. On the one hand, we have the allowance that our pension really is. He is not generally expected to care for the payments. He's just not exactly tall enough to do that. In my opinion, the government has to submit these programmes for different income groups, for different incomes. If you've got 400,000 bucks. the provision of a month's income, what does it mean in this trend from the start of renting or other renting, to the prospect of having a home and making a home without a debt before going to a pension? That plan doesn't exist. There are at least two calculators, one at the Insurance Institute and the other at the Ministry of Health, which define the disposition or implementation criteria and the like - that's not quite the same thing, which is very strange. It is very strange that there is no counsel on the future outcome of different income groups in relation to the potential for reaching that goal. The second possibility, of course, is to stop having that kind of pension system that assumes that debtless housing will be due for this age. But it's a much bigger decision to go out in that way and have to make a lot of changes to do that. But having those criteria is a key factor. They think they're going to help a lot, as many sources have noted. This is a fundamental factor in how people take risks in the largest purchases of life. The problem I see about this is that this may leave a small number of people behind because we don't see what steps we take or what solutions are available for those people to get to the same way as expected in the pension system, to have a debt free of housing. I can't wait to see those plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u116	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing mortgages to consumers, which are mostly fine cases, but there are some defects in what you can see when you cover the lyrics itself. This is a bill that is clearly written in the Ministry of Economics and Economics and is being proposed for a change in the state of VII. section of the Treaty on home loans to consumers, which is about clearance to Iceland's Secret Bank to set the rules for the application of national economists as they are called. It is also suggested that mortgages given in conjunction with share loans will not be included in this case here, and that says itself. It is this way when discussing the motive and need for these laws that it is authorized to set rules that limit the total interest of mortgage loans or their pay loads relative to consumer income, which were added to the bill when it became the law of 2016. The original bill suggested that there be only legal regulations that the FESI is permitted, that it be recommended to establish financial standards for this level. There are several points in the review of the FESI that I would like to take into consideration. The review stated that different controls affect different groups in different ways and limits on the mortgage rate are not always the most effective way to work against the loan swings that always arise once in a while. In addition, the F.O. also proposed to limit the total financial value of property loans and payments relative to consumer income. This is a bit of a big deal, especially for us who have heard the talks that have been given in the past, that it is a large group of rent people, and this same group is paying enormous amounts of rent and using almost all their provisions to live under the rented house. At the same time, therefore, paying is not provided because it is somehow put on the financial floors that people can receive. There is an error that makes people trapped in a poverty trap. We know of quite a number of examples, I think, at least I've noticed, that bank workers have just adjusted the credit profile from the information given, people may have been in rented rooms for years, and they've always kept their money. I can't see that this matter we're discussing is going to change it in some way. I don't think it's the system or the ability to buy a place that's simpler. I think there'll still be an employee at the bank who fixes the payment, so it won't all be on the table. It is also included in the 27th chapter. The current law requires that Iceland's Shared Bank be allowed to agree to the financial status committee which I first discussed here to set in the rules of maximum total interest loans or to pay dues in proportion to consumer income. It's the thing that matters everything, and exactly this, that there are different kinds of people, they vary in their income, where they live in the country, etc. It is also suggested that our neighboring countries have so limited on the financial burden of real estate loans. I feel totally like comparing apples and oranges when comparing Iceland with other countries, in particular, I'd like to mention Denmark in this relationship, where I know very well. There are tenants that are active, are useful to a great many, and are in different shapes. I know that baptized children will often receive a number in such companies for baptism, so that they will get into such a system as this in the first place if they will need it in time. It just tells you that it's an active market, a lease, which is also a sort of competitive market, as we would like to be here when we're borrowing, that there is also competition in a loan market when we're investing. It is suggested that the ratio of payment was considered in the context of the financial collapse. Of course, we know that there were many who lost their home that way, but now I'd like to say that it's not because people didn't want to pay off their loans and that's why we need to set this peak. I mean, the whole court was the bank side while the people were put on the street. It's as simple as that. It is said that the upper limit of the peak is set at 50% in which studies show that borrowing so much of the payload is likely risky and unlikely that the rules in this field will be applied in a higher proportion. Once again people are to be known, and once again, people are bound. Once again, people will be stuck in a rented market. So it's a bit complicated. But it is absolutely clear that this roof is not necessarily being looked for the benefit of consumers. It's trying to have, as it is expressed indirectly, knowing consumers, but we ourselves know where we stand at each time, and we don't need to be told. There are some major issues involved here, and it is particularly important that we talk about young people and those who don't have much money to play on, that the rates of mortgages that are paid to the share loans will be avoided by this VII. the part of the law. It does, but we have also heard reports of people being denied share loans, not even reaching the limits set there, so they need to do better than this. It was made available to various members when this bill we have here, at the Bank of Iceland and then, of course, the Ministry. There were reviews from a number of sources, very good comments from the financial institutions, Homing and Civilization Institutes, and then the National Aggressive Organization. I must admit, since I'm not on this committee, that I miss a little bit of not seeing from the Neighbours Association. I would have liked to see their words somehow put here in a text. They'd have been concerned, and it would have been helpful. But if we go to a review sent to the financial company, there are a number of things, I remind you that there are five things, which point to the fact that there are some matters that need to be considered. First of all, it is not lawful to establish documents in the law to deviate from peaks, and then there is another aspect of the report on consumer potential and the use of changing growth rates. We know it's a market, and it's very important for people to always be able to find the most favorable loans, e.g. if they improve in some bank, that they can change banks, and if interest goes down. These are a number of factors to consider. This is followed by a definition of the disposition of the tutors. As mentioned in the previous talk, there are simply different definitions of the provisional element so that you may need to consider more carefully. It is not true that the same limitations are placed between individuals and couples under the organization, that they are not right. The groups that are taking loans or groups of consumers, as the bill says, can be defined by family or geographical areas. The final factor is that this will increase access or limit the availability of housing loans for low income groups and younger buyers. We know that both younger buyers and low income groups are, for example, undercountry groups. People who are in school and who are sometimes stuck in a rented market that is rarely favorable, so these are points of view that could be expressed altogether. It is suggested that consumer income is already under the law of real estate loans, and it is being said here and that if you put down these laws, a group of consumers who intend to make the biggest debt on account of insurance does not have the same option. I think it's a bit of a special expression. I'd rather say that people don't really want to owe themselves more than they have to. But there it is. It is then suggested that, with the application of this document, credit institutions will be allowed to lend some of the loans during a certain period of time with the above roles above the maximum limit. This allows for some consumers to gain a loan in spite of these peaks if they have temporary deviations in income or transport. It may be this very point, which, in turn, will also be written into credit assessment by a bank employee in an effort to see through an ever more complex system of action so that the person can obtain a suitable payment, which is acceptable, so that people might begin to say that they are moving or have been moving. There are all kinds of complications in this. In the end, I'd like to mention just an equal opinion, which is very back on the bill. It is said that there are no special equality effects involved in the bill and that the authority defined in the bill differs in gender. I'm gonna let me go into this a little bit. It is not only gender equality that matters; it is also a variety of other forms of equality. There is equality between older and younger people, and there is equality between urban and rural populations. I think it's a little simple to argue that we just have to look for women on average with less income. I feel almost talked down there to women, I'm going to let myself say it, and there might be a lot more things to do than here. I think I've come to the end of this bill, which is really nice, but it's complicated when you start looking at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u117	Mr. President. I would like to discuss this topic briefly, but perhaps more than a half of it is mentioned. The Economic and Business Committee. I'm calling attention to the members of the Central Committee, okay? paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson, does not sign this committee opinion, and I would like to, on the other hand, to refer to his earlier talk and to the committee's reference, to build up the decision not to be on the committee's opinion. The opinion, such as it's not far, material, is probably close to ten or twelve lines, says the president's permission: With the bill, it is suggested that the limits of the maximum loans and the payment rate as a percentage of income will be further defined, as well as the proposed addition of the provision of the provision of the provisional bank to set the limits for the maximum share, due to a percentage of the total interest loans given during the specified period. - These may be the technical issues. Then, with the permission of a president, it goes on to say: ▪ The more part agrees with financial organisations to make it important to make changes in credit terms that they are well presented to consumers before they go into effect. Better now. In this case, it is not merely a matter of reputing ourselves to consumers and borrowers. Of course, there is no room for this. Then, by permission of the president, it goes on to say: If used, be careful that creditors are allowed to change their systems and that the real-estate buyers who have already begun a trade process and received a pay check are not affected under pressure by the hydrogen conditions. This is as easy as it can be, but as is often mentioned in committees, bills, and so forth, what is not said most may be said. These are particularly specific viewpoints presented in the review of the Association of financial companies, and soon I don't seem to be referring to other comments. Commenting on the Association of financial companies, which are now the members who lend most of the loans discussed in this case, Article 1 says by permission of the president: By means of stricter conditions, the effect will be the most important factor in the availability of remuneration for real estate. The financial organisations surveyed borrowers, suggesting that there can be a higher impact than expected in the report, and especially in the first purchases, when borrowing is observed. Month 12. Thus, the application of stricter conditions will limit the availability of large groups to a real estate market. I'm actually amazed that these financial organizations have not been established by the Committee's reviews. Considering that this is the only reference given to any attention in this committee party, I feel absolutely amazing that the core point of the review is not getting any attention. That's exactly what they say, again with President's permission: By means of stricter conditions, the effect will be the most important factor in the availability of remuneration for real estate. [...] Thus, the application of stricter conditions will limit the availability of large groups to a real estate market. Is this the objective of a government that the independent party and the forwarding party are involved? I have to admit that this surprises me, and I'm sure I will get an explanation for the cause. But I just couldn't help but mention it here on this discussion that these views have been fully bypassed by a panel of more part of the Economic and Business Committee that the Central Party's representative does not sign. It is obvious that this principle, as it is currently occurring, will force their possible funding to reduce in terms of their own housing. Then I'd like to mention a review not mentioned in the committee list of parts, which is the title of the House and Manicults Agency, which says, by permission of the President: That's the way the plant works. The role of providing loans for income-rich groups and other lenders where the Agency is limited on the maximum budget of loans, or 30 million. K.◯ In this way, the Agency has become more effective in using sources to look at lower tax subsidies as well as other creditors, which make it easier for those who earn more money to pass payment at the House and Managing Institute. It's the same thing. This points to the two parties of a group of enterprises, those people who provide resources for the employer, that this bill agrees that the potential of earners to get their own roof over their heads will be limited. I think most Icelanders are specialised for housing matters. Most people want their own home or their own apartment, and see, too, historically, an opportunity for property there. Very large groups, especially those less money, are in the position of paying more rent than they would have to pay from loans and at operating expenses that would satisfy their needs. So selfishness may be taking place instead of having large groups trapped in a rented market. We know this discussion over the past few years, and in itself in a collapse, I think it's safe to say that families and people are paying much more rent than they have to pay from their own shelters, they'll get only payment. The comments of these two Member States, the bodies of financial companies and, on the other hand, the House and Manorism Organization, which provide just these earners, are so strong that I'm surprised to hear that. The Economic and Business Committee has not taken these views into consideration but suggested that the bill be agreed with and remain unchanged as it is. I wanted to keep this up for this discussion because I want large groups to have more than renting is real. We are not supposed to put a stone in the street of the people who want to get their own roof over their heads by forcing it into the position of paying higher rent rent on rent than would cost to pay for their own housing. I am amazed that the matter is running out on this point, for at the same time the bills, share loans, and other solutions that promote the special approach have been approved. Then the matter comes and violates them. I would not have thought that the Independence Party would have taken the initiative to present a bill that will give its foot a special policy on housing, but it is now as often as the man wants to go for a long time. This is what I wanted to say during this discussion. I simply reiterate the warnings we are given in these two comments, which say, by permission of the president: By means of stricter conditions, the effect will be the most important factor in the availability of remuneration for real estate. [...] Thus, the application of stricter conditions will limit the availability of large groups to a real estate market. These warnings leave no room for misunderstandings, and they are generally held. Hopefully, in later stages, it will be more effective to support the poorer people in the lower part of society's income areas to get their own roof over their heads than is suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u118	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up here because I'm on the lookout for this matter. My lead is that I want to emphasize that what is said in the bill and that is taken into the Committee list more part of it is that there are regulations to be put in place, agri-gritary to set up a Regulation on the license to import the seeds of the species Cinabis Stiva, by permission of the President, I don't know the Icelandic word for this, and there is a closer requirement and restrictions on import, treatment and possession of the seeds to which the bill reaches. I just want to make this specific, and most of the reviews that came or received because of this bill were positive and it's just stated that this group belongs at the seafaring and agricultural minister's house, and I'd like to make a special decision that I agree with that. It is a very good review that came from the local community, which speaks in the very direction of agrienvironmental development that will take place under the supervision of what is being permitted here. And I'm sure that it will be a step that we can use this mode further. Their review is listed in their reviews all the materials that can be made of hammer, and I think it's just a very good thing, as long as we can see to it that things are going to be okay and that they will be in charge of this regulations that I'm referring to here first.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u119	Mr. President. Finally, the long - awaited medical secretary's report on changes in the plans and implementation of cancer screening is in place. It took four days after the Ministry sent her on a test lecture to publish it. I'd like to point this out specifically because it's eight pages, it took four days to test-read so that the document could be seen here at the council. But she arrived at the end of the council, and I expect a respectable president to be tried hard to get a minister to report to the Assembly Hall and to explain the contents of the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u120	V.E.G. President. I'd like to sit down and say something. paritaprevir As a result of this report published on eight pages by Andrés Ingi Jónsson, it is quite surprising that it took so long. You can't say that this was the right decision if you read through the conclusions of this report, so it's a good thing to come up with, but it's amazing that working on it took all this time, considering how short it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u121	A respectable president. I now present a committee opinion with a new proposal from a greater part of the General and Education Committee. The Commission has arranged a number of sources and sources to review the case, but this bill aims to strengthen the improvement of the case of mobbing by the National Institute of Education. The Secret Service is to give the school community support because of mobbing with general counseling, as well as for which harassment can be referred if there is no adequate solution for school or rural society. The bill does not suggest changes in materials involved in the work of the Council, but to the Commission it suggested the need to reevaluate the use of harassment. Over the years in the school community, including the United States, there has been an increase in the number of monopolies. Internet monopolitanism. It is important to take action. The Committee also suggested the need for preventive measures against harassment by promoting education, including students and staff, on the importance of good communication and positive school skills. It was reported that there was a work on the establishment of a new government education policy in which a group of lawsuits would become a priority. The majority agree with the importance of the legal and administrative situation of professional harassment, making the bill the first step in a necessary review of harassment. It is important to promote educational and preemptive work to prevent harassment and to ensure that professional approach, explains the procedures and support of parties and groups in which harassment is carried out when working with this sensitive group of subjects. The majority feel that when considering the interests and well - being of children, it is essential that the group of painters have a priority in the induction of education. The bill suggests access to the data of the case of mobbing in accordance with legal requirements of administrative laws and information laws. However, if it feels that it can harm a child's interests or that he or she has a relationship with others, it may be limited by a reasoned decision. It may also decide that the members and their attorneys can study documents and other data without being supplied or a copy of them. The committee suggested that only the necessary and relevant information be shared in the child's best interests. The majority state that it is responsible for the responsibility of the responsible party, i.e. The Council, evaluating the information necessary to acquire and communicate a purpose and to meet the need to develop a more detailed system of action and a set of guidelines for the implementation of these issues. The bill suggests that the professional advice of harassment should be allowed to process personal information, including sensitive personal information on the physical and mental health of an individual, but the criteria to be authorized to work with such information are the need for development as a result of the activities and role of the professional council. b-coma 3. Section 3. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information. The processing of personal information depends on the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. The Precautions of harassment should inform the participants of the proposed information Summit in accordance with 2 mg. 17th par. Same song, Sbr. 14th par. Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. For the Committee, there were indications from Peritoneal Protection that the instruction given to them would always be written, but after the events along with verbal explanations. Builded it even. by means of written instruction, they will be better assured of harmony in the instruction provided. At the same time, it gave responsible ones a better perspective on what instruction was given and when it had been given. The majority agree with these views, thinking that it will better ensure professional approach to inform the interviewer in writing and suggest changes in the bill accordingly. The motion is made in the Senate document, which says that after the word "utensive " in the 3rd issue of Awake! 3 mg 2.g. and case 3. 3 mg Section 4. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Under these publications. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Silja Dögg Gurnar's Gunnarsdóttir, the one standing, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, and Steinunn Þóra's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u122	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on billing to correct changes in post-mail laws and building laws, the delivery of post-mails. The Committee is of the Environment and Transport Committee and is available in Parliament No. 1633 and No. 534. The committee received reviews from 11 sources, and she received visitors who followed up with them and discussed the matter. The bill examines the legal adjustment necessary to move administration and the monitoring of mail services from the post-mail and communications agency to the Agency. First, the Commission reviews the discussion. The bill includes the transfer of mail projects to the Agency and ensures that the role of the Agency will be the same as the role of the Post and Communications Agency for the implementation and that the building agency has all the same authority and responsibilities laid upon the post-doc and telecommunications agency. To achieve these goals, a selection was made to suggest a change in the post-mail law, which only includes the implementation of post-mail tasks from the post-mail and communications agency to the Agency. Therefore, when the bill is built up in a way that suggests the duties, privileges and duties of the Post and Communications Office in the Act on Mail and Communications, it is largely a law of mail services, which is laid upon the central role of a post-mail centre based on a post-mail account in the laws of the Office. This is in harmony with the law of other institutions of the State that carry out more than one assignment. Along with this bill's donation, a bill was submitted to legal legislation on the activities of the post-Semitic and telecommunications Agency and the Agency. Gives a new name, Remote Room. - That bill is also here for payment. The commission states: ▪ A number of clients encourage the transport of mails, from the post and communications agency to the graffiti, provided that funding and human resources are provided for the successful and effective monitoring of mail services. Other testimonials illustrate doubts about the change, including due to the risk of loss of expertise and experience in transport between institutions, and the fact that mail services are non-consistency or that tension may arise between monitoring role and the role of a Based organisation in building areas. They highlight the opinions of the country's postal services and the need to establish a basis for healthy competition for mail markets. In particular, a problem that exists in the postal market has been identified following a new mail service law, No. 98/209, especially 2 mg. 17th par. The law of the law that says registration for the services is the same for all over the country. - It's even for a package as a letter, so it's explained a little bit. - The government's approach to e - mail services should be re-evaluated and perhaps even re-ev. National transport service as a whole It is a complex extract, and in this light it may be. It is wise to apply work on the overall review of the cause of the problem, with the aim of implementing a new approach to national mail and transport services, which guide the interests of all the people of the country. Then the Contestant Commission points out that there are other ways to ensure optimal delivery of mail services in scattered areas, e.g. with a well-translated transport equation. And it goes: The Commission considers that the post office's tasks can be carried out and supported by the delivery of mails from the post - communications agency to the Agency, but agrees with the importance of ensuring financial and human resources for the implementation of knowledge between institutions and organisations. The Commission then points out that the objective of the bill is only to deliver the current post-mail and communications legislation in the area of the mail to the Office and therefore it is not to alter the relevant terms of the law on the surveillance of mail from what is currently under the law of the post-mail and communication agency. The committee does not believe that there is any basis for changing the prescribed rules at this stage, despite several indications made by the manager. In other words, the committee does not suggest any material changes to the main subject of the bill, but it suggests two changes related to mail, and it will be further explained here, as well as a number of technical changes and word changes. The first adjustment is about working on the analysis of opportunities to cut back at the postmarket: The EEA believes that there is a need for a better basis for healthy competition in the postmarket as well as for ensuring access to national mail services regardless of location. With reference to this, the Committee suggests that work will be initiated on the basis of identifying possible opportunities to reduce the expense of the state's mail service, i.e. the so - called full - time cost, taking into account Iceland's international commitments and competitiveities. In this connection, please refer to the decision of the post and communications agency No. 21021, where you will also see that the Agency considers a significant opportunity to reduce this cost This refers to the Commission as an environmental and transport committee, when the postal legislation was taken from the Committee in 2019 and I am not going to trace it all but go to the Committee's proposal: Therefore, the Commission suggests that a minister, in cooperation with financial and economic ministers, will be appointed by a staff to evaluate how best to achieve the target of Article 1. Law on Mail Service, No. 98/209, which is contributing to the practical, effective and reliable mail services across country and country, including the U.S. by ensuring users access to public services as defined at any given time and by promoting market competition for mail services The population should include will take into account technical innovations, competitive policies and international commitments in Iceland. The objective of the work group needs to: opportunities to reduce the cost of state funds from mail services, i.e. the so-called full - time cost, provide suggestions that ensure that all the people of the country receive their mail services and pay for them at an acceptable price, including: possible transport, ensures healthy competition in non-market areas and responds to possible overlaps between mail service legislation and the provision of passenger transport and transport. The committee then highlights in that work: It is important to consider consumers, professional drivers and normal people that representatives of different viewpoints are in the working group as well as the practitioners in the field of mail and finance. The committee also highlights the need to look to the viewpoints of different settlements in all parts of the country. The proposals of the work group shall be met with costs and their impact on the whole mail market and the economic impacts in competitive and based evaluations. The aim should be to provide the proposal and report of the work group no later than October 1, 2021. I'm also going to read the proposal as it happens in the Redemption, but then this discussion leads the committee to suggest that a new law be added temporarily, as follows: In cooperation with a minister who handles financial and financial matters, the first order of a multidisciplinary team should be made to determine how best to achieve the objectives of Article 1. The law, including the law. Based on technology technologies, competitive plans and international commitments from Iceland. In the service group, in addition to a minister's representative, appointed professionals and representatives of consumers' viewpoints, professional drivers and different settlements. The proposals of the group shall be made in a report, as well as a cost assessment, and their impact on the whole mail market and economic impacts in competitive and regional terms. The report should be provided no later than October 1, 2021. And then again a little bit into the committee opinion: ▪ The Internet stresses the need for an opportunity to make changes in the ministry for the whole country, which may lead to greater efficiency. You can, for example, do so. For example, there is an increase in self-imbursement, electronic solutions, increased integration of mail services, and other vehicles to rural areas, such as increasing reporting on contractors in Iceland's European Summit ohf. to take on other tasks in parallel mail services, as well as the possibility of negotiating with contractors who are already doing other work in rural areas to receive mail services. Then I think that most of the things involved in these analyses and opportunities for postmarket relief have been presented. Then there is the Motion proposal to refer to the need for the postal market to transfer packages within 10 kilograms to a global service duty that should not be taken in all parts of the country. I explained the problem in the past, so I just go to the committee's proposal: So the firm suggests that the provision will be changed so that only a small bill for letters up to 50 g in the public service will be agreed on all over the country. This is in accordance with Article 2. 17th par. a bill to legalize the mail service as it was before it changed in the case of the council. The committee stresses that the above change does not affect the terms 1 mg. 17th par. which requires that costs for services be manageable for users so that they can take advantage of the services or regulations of 3. 17th par. that she takes into account the real cost of giving the ministry plus adequate profits. The Commission then stresses the role of the work team in the analysis of opportunities to cut back at the postal market will have to find ways to level the cost of mail at a national level. As previously said, changes are proposed in technical ways that do not require specific coverage. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes made in a special Senate document. 1634. Under the heading, write why. Senators Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttte, Director Bergþór Ólason, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brjánnsson, in advance, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. Jón Gunnarsson was away from the case, but he signed a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Then Karl Gauti Hjaltason sign his words in advance as he intends to explain in a talk, such as the Brjánsson of S.. Then I have explained the committee's opinion and the changes in the proposals of the Committee, but after the case was resolved, the committee found that the deadline for the second adjustment proposal I went over earlier may not be sufficient. The adjustment suggested is: Article 4. the correct of these measures should be implemented no later than September 1, 2021 We on the Environment and Transport Committee thought that we were well aware that this time was sufficient, but after the proposal appeared on the council website, we received indications that it was not. It's quite a process to change the currency of Iceland. There's a board of directors, employees and post and communications agency or a telecommunications agency. With the permission of a president, I would also like to explain some adjustment to the subject available. 1679. This motion is made by an authority executive, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, who says: "Rather than the words, ◯1. September 1, 2021 Position of the 8th issue: November 1, 2021 After explaining these suggestions, I agree that I believe that this matter is important. I think the approach to hiding a graffiti of e-mails and post-mail surveillance can ensure good service in the scattered and natural competitive environment in the mail service but we can live in unsupervised areas. Much of the rural land may be improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u123	Mr. President. Thank you. An executive for the presentation and review of the Committee's Committee on bill to legalize changes to the postal and construction law, i.e. Mail transport. As one prominent historian noted, this fine reconciliation was done on the committee even though there are some who are on notice and including the one listed here. I will seek in a short talk to explain my situation, which is dedicated to the interests of the country. The bill is making the necessary legal adjustments to move administration and the monitoring of mail services from the post-mail and communications agency to the Agency, as reported by the executives. Of course, mail cases are not pure settlements. The mail service and its monitoring are not merely about the distribution of mail to the forested country but throughout the country, and circumstances are said to be the least indistinguishable. We can talk about the spectrum, black and white. They're extreme. In this context, there are various ways of dealing with competitive business practices and competitive business practices. Under that, I'm going to allow myself to take full feet and hold onto the air. But it is important in my opinion that we approach the debate on competitiveness and markets when it comes to mail services with fairness and due consideration and caution. There may be some context of opinion. My opinion is that we should honor the total interest, fairness, and social responsibility and common sense. We must not ignore the national part of the land, as though their uniqueness is not a reality of many. What a contrast it is to live in Drangsnesi, or Ac Aranesp, when it comes to many public and business services! It can also be pointed out, and in the liberal debate, let alone the fact that there is no real obstacle to the formation of mails in the country. The same is true in general in other countries in the EEA. Mr. President. The postal service is in the past, and for many of us, a reliable and reliable mail service is as self - selective as running water, electricity, or telephone. It is the growing culture, habits, and ability to rely on the authenticity of the mail service, and it has lived up to its name. It's an old thing. The first mail trip in Iceland had begun early in 1782, but the regular mail trip began soon thereafter, or 1785. Since then, time has passed. The first post office was set up in Reykjavík and opened in 1873, the same year that the first stamp was published. The postal service was designed to transfer letters from one place to another, to carry invitations, to send documents, and to send letters from one place to another. Mail was and is still a way to communicate and promote communication and to promote and maintain democracies and democratic relations and traditions. This is true in the last few years, to the growing extent, of the business aspect. It is safe to say that there are many milestones - no matter where we look in our neighborhood. New technologies and changes in the way people communicate and live have a significant impact on the ministry. In the meantime, we're standing in Iceland, which is reflected, in the Iceland's management rush of Iceland's e-mails as a result of letter transduction. It is known that the main work within the services is to be shifted from the distribution of letters to the distribution of packages, of which the capital area may, of course, be mentioned. There's a key field in mail distribution. The intensity and distance are small. In this context, the capital city is often set up against other areas in the country that may be in favor of the situation. Mr. President. Private transport companies have for years won Iceland's biggest competition in transport, and these companies evaluate it to undermine their operations and continue, thus not to be altered. For many years, these companies have held non-political packages in the country, claiming that the services of the state - made mail company are submerged in the region and superseded in the capital area and that companies are looking for an equalizing of their business. It's a market and competition battle. The transport companies say that this is a violation of a ban on the misuse of the market. A public service center is that the same value around the country, but it is said to take into account the real cost of rendering the ministry. On the other hand, opinions arise in terms of normal and legitimate business practices on the market, allowing the implementation to be a competitive principle. On these issues, the Contestant Commission has not issued any decision, but it assesses the need for other and better ways to ensure optimal delivery of mail services in scattered areas. It is a reference to the well - equipped transport system. In a similar vein, such as the Post and Communication Office in its environmental and transport sources. Mr. President. The purpose of a public service, which is largely concerned and is not the main reason for building things, is that the people of the whole country have the right to a minimum postal service that meets quality requirements and if necessary. This is the social opening, that we live together in this one country, in this society that attracts one law, this is one economy, and that the service should be available to us in the same ideals around the country, and that it should be equal to the population as much as possible. The Environment and Transport Committee has discussed in detail this bill and rights of the Committee to Commission, as noted by an authority, that there is a need for a better basis for healthy competition in the postmarket as well as to ensure the availability of citizens to postal services irrespective of housing. It is, as indicated by the signing and approval of the commission, content of the subject. She's a two-way. While some may present a question mark, telecommunication Show and the move to the Agency, it is acceptable. But my priorities in the subject of the bill are primarily that I believe that national interests are by no means guaranteed to change things, even before tables. The law is expected to go into effect on July 1. As a result, uncertainty times take place in the service and cost-separably. No equations are available now when the law is accepted. A committee panel suggests that a minister appoint a team of personnel to ensure that the objectives of the 2019 mail laws are met and directed to provide results for the task force on October 1. However, his orders, plans, and suggestions are completely uncertain. True, the global service program of the law is expected to go into effect later in the fall, but it is only a matter of time. But the knots haven't been tied. If nothing is done, it is clear that the cost of mail at the national package could be greatly increased. As we know, the land is increasingly infested with a web - trade as a standard trade for more difficult trades in scattered areas. And do not forget that this is not a single policy, that leads both ways, and that leads in all directions. The region is already inhabited by websites that thrive in their trues and that have rich potential for prospering. If this is not the case, there are still increasing operations and there are still differences between the rural and urban areas of the south, and that cannot be accepted. That's unacceptable, Mr. President. It must be ensured that equation action is not motivated by political emphasis from one season to another, one year to the next, and nothing is taken in this bill. Also, these factors were not addressed, since they begin to bite immediately this year, and they are worse. I hope that the secretary of transportation and telecommunications has something to do with their response to this year. Mr. President. Mail service still plays an important role. We view this as an established social service that is to be covered, especially for the general employment and key role in this regard as a Web site. In fact, the procedure of the EEA, as stated in the EEA mail contract, which is often referred to, allows Member States some scope for the principle that mail management is a business phenomenon and should generally be subject to competitive regulations and market laws. However, this is limited by social interests, e.g. Emerging freedom of speech, letters of mail, transmission of news channels, or books that have the intention of increasing access to cultural products and increasing the possibility of participation in democratic society. The fact is, as we know in our country and in many lands, that mail volumes decrease and the number of packages is increasing. Thus, the mastery of commerce and commerce is significant. There is no secret. So there is no myth that it would be right to stress that soon there will be a review and a review of both mail and freight transport legislation with the intent to find practical ways to distribute goods and packages across the country. The context and obvious facts need to be taken into full consideration, that in some areas of sustainable services in this area are increasingly difficult to develop. Mr. President. Of course, this is not a simple matter. This need to be in mind political, legal, business, and social factors all at once. Finally, I'd like to thank my members for your excellent work on this committee opinion and full-time work on this bill. Especially would I thank you to what? A publicwoman named Lionel Anna Sævarsdóttir was standing above the staff and guided it firmly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u124	Mr. President. We're here to discuss this bill that pays for the change in the law, the mail service and the building agency, i.e. Mail transport. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir, who is the spokesman for the case, reviewed the case, and the same did so. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson. Anyway, I'm gonna have a few words about this here. I allow myself to be a little more specific in my coverage than these two whales. Senators. So we have an excellent assignment here to deliver mail projects to the Agency that highlight the role of the Agency as well as the role of the post-communications agency and that the Agency has the same authority as the same duties as those established in these matters, thereby leading to these changes. It is true that they were quite a number of reporters who encouraged this transport to the Agency provided that funding and human resources are provided for the successful and effective monitoring of mail services, which is, of course, a key element in this matter here. Then there were others who, as we have seen, expressed doubts and were concerned that expert knowledge and experience might be lost in moving, as well as reasoning that postal service was not in itself a local language. Parts can be left in between. Increased electricalisation in the transport of data is likely to include the effect that mail cases are exactly that, based, while we're at least It's not too far into the electricization that we're moving packages in an electronic way. Furthermore, it was said to some extent that tensions could develop between the observational role of the Agency and then the role of the Agency to promote a structure, and that is quite true and right, and why to warn that such a situation can arise when an institution is allowed to monitor itself, as it were. It was also pointed to a number of opinions that concern the country's mail service and the need to establish a foundation for healthy activities, healthy competition - often in fact, can be placed at the same level as those two words, even though I had a lack of legs on my tongue - on a post - post - mail market. This may be the basis for what I would like to discuss here because, of course, it is very important to the interests of all concerned. And it is stated in the panel that it is an interest to use the trip, as it were, to undo the unfortunate change that occurred during the council on the change in mail law for about A couple of years is done here, as an authority officer did well earlier. It's important to find a way here to ensure that healthy activities - again this lack of legs - that a healthy competitive state on this market is because there is a job opportunity for a number of companies in the scattered areas. This is significant because all of us are likely that small areas of the home can do this service better than any government agency with many responsibilities. Also, these smaller companies are more likely to adopt the various innovations. This is a market for rapid development. So at the same time as we need to ensure that as far as the access of all the people of the country to this service, we need to ensure this competitive attitude, and I'm one of those who believe that there's a match between us. If this is what it takes, whether temporarily or for a long time, it can be guaranteed in the scattered regions by some type of export, and this is something we know well in our small, scattered land. According to all of this, the Commission contributes to a specific change proposal, and the first cause of great rejoicing is an analysis of opportunities to make changes in the post - mail market. In other words, the Commission believes that a healthy postmarket competition needs to be improved, as well as that of ensuring access to national mail services regardless of their location. So the committee suggests that there is work to determine the possibility of such an opportunity. I'm very comfortable with this adjustment proposal. The Commission suggests that the secretary of mail, transport and local government, in cooperation with the financial and economic secretary of a staff to ensure that these targets are met. The Committee defines the purpose of a committee article, i.e. To detect an opportunity to reduce the expense of the state fund of mail service, i.e. These external services costs, develop proposals to ensure that all the people of the country receive their mail service and pay for it at an acceptable price, including possible transport balance, ensuring healthy competition in non-market areas, detecting and responding to potential overlap between the laws on mail services and the implementation of passenger transport and land transport. A significant discussion was made in the Committee on the Orders of this task force, and I am grateful both for this. An authority and the collective commission for taking my comments on how I would like to see us state very clearly that we wanted consumers and professional drivers to look up as well as different settlements and, of course, counselors to come back to such work. It is actually written into the adjustment form that these members should, on the one hand, appoint the group and consider these matters. That's fine. Then there is another adjustment proposal that leads to this registration of public service. It referred to the problem I referred to earlier, which came to the postal market after a new law on mail service from 2018, where, in practice, more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee were changed so that instead of, as the law came from the Ministry, it was reserved that a small bill for the price of up to 50 g in the service should be the same for the whole country, all of which was taken up to a box of less than 10 kg. Moreover, the State entered a competitive market and did not have to resort to this full - time service program. So here it is being suggested that the arrangement be rediscovered so that the list of services is the same throughout the country for letters up to 50 g. I'd like to have a few words about this because it matters. First of all, I'm very happy that this happened and that the committee agrees on this adjustment and shows that talking to one another matters, taking into account all the views, but the pregnancy was quite long and it caused damage. It's just that way. The bottom line of the matter is that the post office's private right to a certain mail service fell off at the year 2019,2020, and at the same time the company temporarily took over, i.e. To one year, in the role of a so-called public service worker, a contract with the state is established. So the government chose to go that way rather than offer the ministry the way I suggested a change, and it is open to us that these can be offered out and offered out in smaller areas that would respond to this situation with different circumstances in different areas of the country. So this came to a conclusion, and then a year later, the contract was extended to a decade. When the law, as I came in earlier, was finished in the spring of 2019, it was originally intended that the weight of a letter below 50 g be the same for the whole country, i.e. A service that had not been competitive at the end of the race, such as the mail, had enjoyed the exclusive rights of distribution. However, in the case of the greater part of the council, I will say that the same would cover packages up to 10 kg, i.e. The same price for all the land. Thus it was overlooked that this market had been healthy competition, especially in the country, where the number of smaller freight companies had served in certain areas of a good one year, even decades. So this went on to speak in favor of a law that is also bound to the same laws, taking into account the real cost of giving the ministry plus adequate profit. This is actually a two - sided rule in one law, and it is quite unusual that it took as long for the person involved to realize it and deliver messages to the Lawgiver. The only ones that did that were really the companies that there carried a sharp object from the table, and it has to be said as it is, their way that our senators' ears were quite long. Then, the mail will change its currency according to these laws, depending on the same charge in the country, but ignores the recommendation that the cost takes into account the actual cost, so that the rate will actually be the same in all four defined markets, taking into account the lowest, i.e. the urban area here on the southwest corner. Another way could have been to take into account the average price rising slightly in the capital area, thereby reducing about a dozen percent in other areas. This would surely have led to the most likely competition for distribution companies in the capital area and from earnings, but the competition in the country would have led to a successful life. But this was the case, and, of course, when no one is up to teaching others except the Lawgiver for having finished things like this. And, of course, I am convinced that members of the council that these changes did not foresee these developments and that changes were made with a good mind in the name of service in the country. But this is what happened, so this subsidies became anything but assistance to the country in view of the way it did to the companies there. In other words, we are changing this now, and that is a good thing. It then becomes clear how much services are needed in the country to ensure that people living in scattered areas enjoy a fair price or the cost of getting the mail, and I believe that it will be relatively easily solved. We've met something like this here in our fine country. It could stand on a pair of people at the expense that has resulted from subsidies from the government funds because this subsidies in the rural areas have been damaging the services provided by the mail who has been paid special payment several times during this period. At any rate, that coin should be released in the transport equation. As long as I'm glad to see this change, I can't end my case here without referring to the highest response. Secretary of finance, who will represent the government with the only stock in the mail ohf. Thus, for years to come, a director appointed by the Postal Board has been tireless to point out the negative consequences of these changes, and it seems that these registration changes followed by these ill - intentioned changes have been implemented without supervision and in some cases even without control, i.e. The mailman's command, and called for a change there, but spoke for the deaf of what we thought, even though it is here, I think it is safe to say, quite serious. I think it's safe to assume that the director's thorough progress played a major role in waking up people of a dream and then crystalting in this adjustment proposal that we're getting together here. But the progress cost the governor, who put his seat in the command of the mail. I know. I'm telling you, he's frustrated. Yet, it does not make him happy to see us here correcting these matters that he has tirelessly pointed out. Then, Mr. President, I'd like to mention this at the end of the term. Anna Sævarsdóttir, what? An executive, has taken over here that the original intention was to produce these changes on September 1, 2021. It was on the way through but then comes a tip from the mail administration asking for a long time, a year's convention I think they talked about on their side, which means naturally in human terms that Christmastime had sailed the second year in a row with these companies in the country. And I'm just going to point out that I have it for the truth and after a lot of conversations with people, both of which run these companies and those in the country who enjoy their services, that it is in many cases better than what the mail has given for reasons I traced earlier, that these are small home companies who know their locals and care for them in a compassionate way. So there was hardly any winner in the form that the second year in a row would be this huge cover-up, now that Christmas is. But besides, Mr. President, I'm also going to add that it is natural from time to time that the mail administration was not informed and aware that these changes were in the lake. So I'm just gonna say it right here, and I don't buy them to argue that this was the time. I know there were differing opinions among the members of the committee, and I know that there were some, and I think that why. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee, Bergþór Ólafsson, was one of those who contacted parties and made sure that they could settle this. So November 1 was the result. I think we've been discussing September 1st, November 1, October 1, December 1 and January 1st. It was kind of like this. November 1 is right here in the middle, and the committee accepted it, and so I did, so these changes will be carried out if things happen right here at the Hall and then this period is over, and the building work is ahead, as this group, which is currently developing, can take it into consideration. I have full faith that we can manage that there will be exemplary postal services here, whether in urban areas or in rural areas, and that we can manage to ensure fair prices for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u125	Mr. President. I'm gonna have a word with what. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson about this bill. It comes from a group that has often talked about consumer protection, and about post - mail services, of course, there are conflicting views. Hv. A senator talked about something that was called a healthy competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u126	Healthy activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u127	Healthy business? Yes, the committee's opinion speaks of healthy competition, and this often strikes one another's horns, i.e. The right of consumers to services and then competition and activities. Often, the cost of providing an consumer living away from a urban ministry is so great that no one wants to serve them in any competition, and the State is running for the farm. I want to ask you why. A senator on that point. How much does she think the state should enter into matters and subsidize services for scattered settlements, and what should be the aim for all to have an excellent post - mail service? As she said to the post office, be an example, and let's hope it is. But how far to go and how much money are we talking about in this regard? What is she willing to pay for such things and to be any limit, i.e. Perhaps with a package or a letter or something?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u128	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. This kind of discussion is my horse and cow. I like them very much, and I think they're one of the most important things here. I believe the state should intervene where it needs to and stay away from where possible. The biggest problems seem to arise when the state is too late to get out of the market or not to miss the film. That's something we've been discussing in this transition, i.e. The space between 50 - page letters up to 10 kilograms when the competition was running that market. However, I believe that the price question could easily have been answered by opening the way out, switching to areas, getting information about what individual companies trusted to do well for what price, and then the state would enter through a transfer system where it would be possible. I have no sense of security today because the mail has been fired in such a way that it has been subjugated or overcrowded, fired with loss, arriving at the last minute of year with hundreds of millions of requests for extra cash to raise the cow. Thus, all of our merits are long - suffering and difficult to answer. On the other hand, if we're going to stay in this country, I'm going to have to be very selective for people to live here. This is one of the basic services. I'm of the opinion that the state and all of us are supposed to make sure that it is, but I'm not ready to see the state get money where they don't have to go because the system can't let go.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can agree with what. A member of the state's often too late to get out of things, and of course there are examples from the mail service to ensure market competition. That is absolutely correct, and we agree there, and we have the examples in front of us. But, of course, there are quite a lot of things involved. It is competitive, consumer protection, community-based reasons, public service, generalised areas, profits, and government grants. We're in a bit of a line dancing about where to draw the line. That is why the committee suggests that a group will be appointed to review this, which, of course, is necessary. But then the market changes very fast, and we know it. After ten years or even five years, letters may not be available. This changes rapidly, and of course we need to stay awake. I agree with what. A senator must be alert to change and quick to adapt. I'd like to add a little bit to the questions, i.e. The competition. Of course, international competition is limited, only at food markets, insurance markets, and banking markets, and so on. It is simply very difficult to ensure healthy competition in such a small country, even in the city of Reykjavík. So I want to ask you why. Senator: How does it feel it is best to ensure a healthy competition, e.g. Just in the city of Reykjavík, in the field of mail? And then her ideas on what the service group was assigned to study, i.e. If you are a person who is driving or using a mail service, as the above mentioned above, you might be able to make better use of it. Who's that driving mainly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u130	Mr. President. Again, I thank the opposition and interesting meditation. First thing with rapid changes. There are two factors that are important in the online industry, especially for the more scattered areas: safety, and the Internet market is in the country. There are various opportunities to post online, altso on letters, but we do not go there unless we are absolutely certain that everyone will sit at the same table. Time and again, we come to the foundation of the world, all over the country, the internet. It is the second thing that the Internet has done. It has led to a network store. It has resulted in increased bioavailability of the population, especially in the more scattered areas, to buy and get back to the country, resulting in the formation of a safe market for the packages, making all these smaller companies stand up in the country where the State then competed against them. That's what I'm talking about. There's so much fermentation, just like what's happened. There's a senator coming in. I like what I'm doing. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason is happy that the committee had given such a clear assignment to the work force. The most important thing to watch is these factors, and even with. I'm telling you, I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... For taking advantage of the trip, I can't exactly answer for what's being thought there, but I know it and I have the truth that there are towns, e.g. about Northeast, where people want their mail at the post office in Akureyri and with special cars, taking advantage of some other missions to get their mail back, and then running in individual places rather than relying on the mail distribution because it works better and is safer. They may be thinking of something like that, some coordination, without me trusting myself to get into it. Well, that's a possibility, anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u131	Mr. President. The bill to correct the change of mail services and the building agency law is moving to a primary part to deliver mail cases from the Post and Communications Agency to the Agency, but as mentioned earlier in this discussion, several events have been made, the trip was new, as it were, if you can say. Since the law was open then, the work was also done to fix problems that had come up with the last changes in the legal environment of the post - mail service. I want to start by thanking my colleagues for my work and calling attention to the fact that all members of the committee feel this way. I especially appreciate it. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttte's performance for a good job. I think, fortunately, these extensions, which I intend to give a special emphasis on in my speech, have been successfully achieved. But first, a little bit about the original points in the Prime Minister's bill. It says, by permission of the President: With the bill, a post-programming project is being carried out to the Based Agency, and it ensures that the role of the Agency will be the same as the role of the Post and Communications Agency for the transfer and that the building agency has all the same authority as the duties laid on the post- and telecommunications agency. So, the main points are here. The Commission will continue to comment on the discussion of the Committee, with permission of the president: ▪ A number of clients encourage the transport of mails, from the post - communications agency to the graffiti, provided that funding and human resources are cared for insured and therefore effective monitoring of mail services. This is what I wanted to do in my speech. It must be taken care that funding and human resources will be moved by these projects to the Agency so that this aspect of the service and activity now being carried around and will not be available until new knowledge structure occurs again. So I'm here to direct the minister and the Ministry to take good care of that. Other commentators expressed doubts about the change, including because of the potential loss of expertise and experience in transfer between strains. There are various issues that have been tore up in the discussion. In particular, points 2 mg were discussed with viewpoints. 17th par. laws that state that the registration for services should be the same throughout the country, which is a law that entered the new mail service laws, No. 98/201. This is what we daily talk about as the same cost over a whole country as we weigh 10 pounds [10 kg]. What the Committee and the Council failed to anticipate on the change of 2019 was the tremendous influence they would have on the competitiveness of transport companies who had the services of this market, the various areas of the country, for years and even decades, and who did so well. There was a situation in which these companies were at a low level in price competition with the email, making a decision to spend their money in the city of Reykjavík, where the package flow is the highest, and the cost of bringing each package at the least of their destinations if all is normal, would be the national reference bill. As a result, the leg was pulled under the competitive position of the special transport companies around them by what would be unexpected consequences if the situation had not been dealt with as it is currently taking place. So I just want to celebrate the peace that was achieved. Hv. paritaprevir In his preceding speech, Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, mentioned earlier, was given the date of the changes on November 1, 2021, although initially it was estimated on September 1. I think it's more important that these fixes go through than whether they go through September 1 or November 1 and just describe my joys in the conclusion. What I was going to come on, in addition to what is involved in the registration of public service and the point of 2 mg. 17th par. that there is the same cost for the country as much as ten pounds [10 kg], is what the committee calls an analysis of opportunities for mail reform. It says, by permission of the President: Therefore, the Commission suggests that a minister, in cooperation with financial and economic ministers, will be appointed by a staff to evaluate how best to achieve the target of Article 1. Law on Mail Service, No. 98/209, which is contributing to the practical, effective and reliable mail services across country and country, including the U.S. by ensuring users access to public services as defined at any given time and by promoting market competition for mail services ◯ This will include a work group that should produce results no later than October 1, 2021. It's a coincidence, just to mention, it's the same date as the change in the price of a package. The decision is not in any relation to the report of the staff listed here to bring together a minister. It was specifically established on the committee, and I came in with it. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, that in this work it was natural for people to have a wide range of views; representatives of the private members of the community and representatives of the community and of other such people who might bring benefits from ◯input, it would not be just a service group of government officials, though the experts there are important in these matters. I'm glad that this consideration was taken in a special way and positive. In this context, the Committee emphasizes the need to look at opportunities that involve making changes in the ministry for the whole country, which could lead to greater efficiency. You can, for example, do so. For example, there is an increase in self-imbursement, electronic solutions, an increase in the integration of mail services and other vehicles to rural areas, such as increasing reporting on a European contractor's workload. to take on other work assignments, along with the mail services, as well as the possibility of negotiating with a contractor who is already doing other foreign service to receive mail services. That's exactly what I think it is. With the approach here drawn to this group, you can view the whole way in which you look at the mail market and try to evaluate from different areas and interests and combinations of services, whether it is reasonable to use the current program or to make attempts to negotiate with parties already on this market or on the market with parallel services, as it were, so to achieve better cohesion and thereby extend the costs and potential number of distribution days, or shortening time and so on the streets. We are to be absolutely open to the most practical way of doing this, for in the end it is the consumers, those who buy the service, the residents of the country around us, and the companies that are most enjoying it if we succeed in doing so. I just reiterate that I am glad to have suggested that this group be appointed and that he submits no later than October 1, 2021. In this, I think there's a huge opportunity. For example, the number of days of mail distribution is far more limited than the number of pages, such as magazines. The morning paper is delivered six days a week. Hence, mail, letters, goods, and deliver items in one way or another is being carried out in most days of the year. It is the integration, to work with it in order to gain financial gain, and to improve a service that, of course, is an unmistakably desired and what must be the will of the council that will be the case at the end of this work. I just want to leave it here with this discussion. I reiterate that I welcome these two decisions that are in addition to what was presented in the original bill and taken at the work of the Committee, on the other hand, on the order of the task force, and on the other hand, on the reimbursement of the registry, which is a very important factor. I think that when the case is examined, there will be other means, in fact, to reduce the expense of transporting packages in the country rather than cutting off private companies that have been in the market for decades. So it has to be done by means of some non-cusspheric transfer system, as it says here, i.e. suggest that other means be found by the Contestance Commission to ensure optimal delivery of mail services in scattered markets, e.g. with a well-translated transport equation. All these factors will be on the table. I wish the benefit team as soon as I thank the committee and the manager for good work and cooperation in the work of the Committee on the progress of this case and the adjustments needed to be made and the items added after the case entered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u132	The President would like to remind you that the matter is Icelandic, and he would like to pray with a good heart. A senator might consider that instead of using the word ◯input, he uses words such as tips, suggestions, or even ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u133	Did I say "I"?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u134	Mr. President. I'll try to have my answer in Icelandic. I like this bill, because the situation is being handled in a reasonably normal way by breaking up the post and communications agency and moving it. At least it's in the right direction. But there has been a long period of postal services in Iceland where the cost has been high, the availability has been extremely small in most parts of the world, and especially in the case of package transport. The linking is sometimes very high for people; e - mails need to be sent back and forth, even for days, in order to get their packages delivered. Of course, when you look at the reason for this, certain personal development plans have been going on for a very long time. Many things have been done to make the mail more successful. Our toll system does not directly help, high cost to consumers, and of course, it does not simplify the fact that we are outside of a valuable tax alliance with our major business peoples, thus increasing the value of extra taxes on the vast number of mails. In general, conditions are relatively burdensome, making transport between countries very complex. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I have not been able to observe the progress of the matter and have not had as much feeling about it as I do. A senator, who is chairman of the environment and transport committee, whether he can say something to make sure that this will not result in higher costs, less dependability, or more complications to consumers, but that this will reduce it. Although I feel that the changes in the regular work environment indicate that this will be better, I'm not quite sure that this will be better for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u135	Mr. President. First, I'd like to apologize for this English piece of mine, which I must admit I don't remember in what context I mentioned, but will conscientiously attend the order of the president and look after me from now on. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr for the counter. If I start with the points being added now from the contributions of the bill that turn to the working group on the other hand and, on the other hand, the change in the whole country to a 10 kg pack and lighter, I am optimistic about the group that we are looking at in order for the system to be more efficient; more flow, more foreview, because it will be more open to where the service is going to be performed individually. So I'm convinced that it will improve. In terms of the change that turns toward the country as a one - price area, the effects of it are multiple. What we have to do with this is that it prevents the fact that moving companies in the country do not just disappear because they don't stand a chance in a run-in competition with the EU mail that they really are, like the rules are right now. Of course, failure to take other measures will have an additional effect on the land area. But then again, I would point out what the Contestant will consider: It may be necessary to examine carefully selected equations. But if we watch the bill itself as it has been shown, this should not be a major change, since it is being moved in whole from the post and communications agency to the home base. But the key point is, of course, what I came up with, that the capital, the man, the man's wealth, and the knowledge are moving in. If that answers a question, why? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u136	Mr. President. Yes, it really answers all the questions. True, it leaves me with the thought: Yes, okay, it's a good control policy change in these matters, but it really has no effect on consumers right now. But good, there'll be a working group, cool. But part of the reason why I come up here and name this is that I've heard so many people who've lived outside Iceland, whether they're Icelanders who've moved out or immigrants here, who have said that in Iceland, most things are really great, but the postal service is absolutely moulding. I have experienced this myself after living in many parts of Iceland, and I have often wondered where the knife is in the cow. Part of it is the regulations requirement and the need to add tax monitoring fees to the package delivery and to provide merit supplementary taxes, specifically, etc. Many of these could be removed. But it is, I think, no less than that in Iceland it has been decided for some reason, in particular, some classes here at the General Assembly decided that Iceland should go the way that was extremely popular at the beginning of the novelisticism to stop having a good, powerful, state-running mail service, although it certainly costs a lot --mail service is not an inexpensive phenomenon - but has decided to stop it and spread it out in every corner town, instead of having a powerful, centrally public service for the major things and beyond, as is, for example, In the United States, a powerful, private, pack - service. You can let these things work together. I can't figure out why we're in this situation, that it's somehow so complicated and unreliable because we can do better. We have shown this in every other aspect of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u137	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I understand the problems of my life. A senator points to and is familiar with this discussion. I have no idea, however, that the reason this is hard to keep here in Iceland is that it was missing to some extent from the government business in this, since the mail is, of course, a government firm and it has long been a source of access to this market, especially the packaging distribution companies. Without my answer, I would think the small market and distribution are a significant feature of these materials. Since I most live in foreign lands, there is a neighborhood where there are 300,000 people. With no problems, I can walk it all the way around and end in a short time, so it's a completely different area of service to be working with here. I think that's a rather reason why it's hard to maintain a service like that that you have, for example. in large cities for delivery of letters and packages and prices. Copenhagen Economics has won a comprehensive report for Iceland probably three years ago, trying to prepare support for the actual costs of public services and so forth, across the streets. I think it would be good for the council, the nearest environmental and transport committee, to consider this context, and then to refer to the work of the group that is now being started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u138	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the conversion of the post office law and the building laws that briefly state that the post-mail project will be delivered from the post and communications agency to the Agency, just as it is in one piece. Here at the council, there is still a bill for a telecommunications agency that will be taken care of in the remaining section of the Agency as the mail cases have moved into a living agency. It's the bill in the big context of ordinary human languages. A number of adjustments are also made, and they trust. The committee agreed on these changes, despite the fact that some reporters and visitors who came to the committee had doubts about this move. Mostly, I think it's in human interest that the experience and expertise that have been built up around this category in the current institution do not result in the transfer. Of course, it's very important, Mr. President, not to be. We need to make good use of our existing experience and make sure that our expertise will remain in this category. It's an application and implementation under the relevant secretary. The role of the Agency will be the same as the role of the post - communications agency in the past. I also want to make a decision, Mr. President, that money will follow this, not only the human resources, but the funds that a building agency can provide for this class. Based on this field's work, the two major context projects are in the foundation, i.e. Monitoring the case and monitoring that these procedures are being carried out by the law, and then, of course, that the whole country's mail service will be ensured. Then we may find ourselves in the difficult part of this matter because it seems to be something that we are looking for. There we find ourselves on different corners; we need to ensure competition and to ensure that all the inhabitants of the country will receive the service. It refers to packages and letters, talks of days, when to deliver, how often a week, talk about delivery times, how long time can be, etc. This is a challenge, and the committee also made it possible for an experienced group to cross the whole thing. That was well done, and hopefully the work force will carry out this assignment. He was assigned to arrange for an opportunity to reduce the cost of public mail. Of course, this is a difficult assignment, but it may help us to make changes in technology. Changes in society may also help us to do the same because, as people know, such changes have, for example. In a few years, the number of letters dropped dramatically. Since there is no resemblance to what was five years ago or ten years ago, it may not be necessary to distribute letters as much as before. Instead, other changes have been made. Now people want to order their own instruments, tools, clothing, and toys from outside the world and be sent home to their homes. That's the change. There's a new need for services, and it's a question of whether all the people of the country are sitting at the same table. It may not be possible to say, but I strongly suggest, Mr. President, that we provide all the people of the country, no matter where they live, a similar service in this respect, i.e. to be distributed, either letters or packages or anything else, at a reasonable price and not taken very long, i.e. I don't think they're late for the shipments. There's the knife in the cow. Then come the competitive side. Since something is out of the question to want people to compete for it and try to minister to people, perhaps even feeling that they can do it better than the State. Of course, it's against the EEA rules, of course, the state is bound to the rules that some things cannot be funded up to a certain extent according to the rules. That's where we're tied. It is a narrow way to follow a competitive, competitive course, give people the opportunity to be adamant about things, the service people, to follow EU rules, and that the state will be strengthened where strength is, not just the things to be strengthened, but the things to be strengthened, according to EU rules. I'm making it clear that this isn't a simple matter. Even though we're changing the accent, this group has the responsibility of reviewing this in the large context and developing a proposal to ensure that all the people of the country are enjoying the most important service will achieve a healthy competition, detect and respond to potential overlaps between the laws on mail services and the application of passenger transport and freight transport. This is a big deal. It says that you may be able to consider the possibility of making good use of trips and to be talking about how contractors are doing in the mail and other driving services. Of course, many are traveling throughout the scattered territory for various purposes. There are schools, milk transports, and transports that take place around the country. Of course, it would be easy to consider whether this might go together, thus saving the State's expenses when the State is subsiding various services, such as. Mail service. This needs to be costing. How much this will cost when all these views are met, i.e. that the people of the country get the same service all over the country? How much? These costs need to be considered and then offered suggestions on how we do this and which way to go. I was going to talk about a little more. I was going to talk about how devastating it was to me when the postal stamper had stopped for about a year. I've been collecting stamps since I was very young. I think my skills in a variety of things were the first thing to do when I looked at stamps. Of course it's some kind of past sickness, it's not like this today. People just turn it up if they want to know something. Still, it is happy to have learned to know mountains, though I never arrived, by looking at pictures of stamps that were so beautiful. Of course, I'll miss it. Maybe it's time, I don't know. But I would have continued, Mr. President, that a stamp version could be held outside because I think there are still many buyers of Icelandic stamps that show culture, landscape, and history of the country. Its version can hardly be so expensive that it cannot answer the cost of giving out just a few signals a year. I miss this, but maybe it's the past, and I'll bend to it like everyone else. It's regrettable, but maybe it's just a time sign and nothing to say. But I wanted to mention this too in this speech because I have fond memories of this gathering as a child.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u139	President. I'm recommending for the second hand of a committee party with a new proposal on behalf of him. Environment and Transport Committees and, on the other hand, for the adjustment of the proposal of a special document that I give as an executive of the case. However, it is stated that she is moved in full cooperation with what she has to say. Committee. It is good to say that the bill is suggested to agree with a new total law on environmental impacts as well as the legislation on environmental assessment. It is proposed to change the organizational laws, the laws on the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters and the laws on nature protection. It's some kind of tapeworm. It's a full reexamination. The draw is that the bill was processed by a group. I had the privilege of leading the group appointed in January 2019, resulting in a return in January 2021. Within it were representatives of very diverse stakeholders, ranging from environmental and environmental protection organizations to executives through the activities community. This great and good work, where all members of the group, representatives, returned, showed that they were at peace with those matters, which have been working a long time to reach. I'm going to close here, Mr. President, on certain points of the committee opinion that I believe need special attention. The Committee reviewed differences in the state of the Agency's opinion on environmental assessment. In effect, some commentators complained that they would bind the hands of the legmen; others complained that it was not binding, but only the conditions in it. Hence, the difference in understanding was that it is necessary to make clear that it is considered to be binding itself, not merely the criteria set out, but the binding of the leaver. We went over this on the Committee, and, in the opinion of the Committee, 2 mg is clearly expressed. Twenty-seven. that the Agency's opinion should be placed on the basis of permission. So we refer to this committee study to the position of the Organization for the review of the report with the bill. One of the main services in the global reexamination was to increase the public access, and to this end it is opened much earlier that the public has access to the data in these issues. There were reviews based on the misunderstanding that a change in the right to an assessment decision was proposed. It's the fact that the public's arrival would get worse. That, Mr President, is obvious not to be. The bill includes a simple procedure for the matter. The assessment by the Committee is mainly designed to facilitate the access of the public into the process. We handed out what is stated in a paper with the bill, that, in comparison with other northern countries and Scotland, Iceland stands out as the only country that has access to any physical assessment criteria, and there is no record of that authority with this bill. A few comments were published on whether to alter the legal requirements of 10 mW powerhouses to evaluate and modify environmental impacts, in particular because they are also under the protection and energy efficiency laws. According to that law, the change or addition of the older inducers will not fall regardless of the size criteria if such a change is not assessed. Some sources pointed out that the renewal or updates of machinery within the house could result in an increase of over 10 MW. It would therefore be an environmental issue according to the bill. We reviewed this at the Committee and concluded that Annex 3,01 of an Annex, which includes a power plant, is materially unchanged from other sources, and will be referred to in a discussion on a report. The bill does not result in a change in environmental food. There we refer to an Annex From Directives, and perhaps especially in the Law on a frame plan where these issues would need to be discussed if there is a wish to make changes. The Commission feels that there is no basis for changing the bill because of these comments and suggests that the Environment and Resource Ministry will consider the matter. A judicial hearing is a small key in this overall review, the president, because it does not only guarantee the public access to the data and access of the case sooner but also ensures the implementation and permission of a much better outdoor and conversation with the Agency, which is the legal authority when it comes to maintaining the assessment of the environmental programme. I may better introduce it when I make a brief explanation of the changes made in a special document, as the committee shows that it is a key factor in the integration of the effect of using this information problem as the Organization to operate, and the committee makes it very clear that it is being developed. President. We then covered specific forms of this bill for a song, as I entered it, an overall review that is quite important. For an Annex, please see where you can find out what projects you are related to, and what projects you are only allowed to do. In the workgroup in its own time, we worked with this appendix only and sent some of them out for review, but then, in the case of each sector, we have come up with several comments on the appendix and instructions, suggestions to act in any way that we have had a tendency to look positively at, in particular, that there was not enough time for us to meet all stakeholders and to review this Annex, which is a rather large document and tablet. In this way the Commission proposes changes in forest size, soil and industrial areas, in terms of the production of hydrogen, specific EU types are not in force here because hydrogen is produced in an environmentally friendly fashion here, in terms of repairing new roads, rubber industry, and then making certain decisions in a legal way to a judicial committee rather than a environmental Minister. On September 1, 2021, we have considered a set of values and have made adjustments in terms of the law's taking effect. Then I'm going to go over certain teams when I'm just aware of a specialized proposal that certain articles will take effect later on. Madam President. I reviewed the peace that was achieved in the work group that won the drafts that went into consultation, such as a bill to legalize from the highest level. Environment and resource minister. Efforts have been made for quite a long time to make that peace, and they noted in general that even though some suggestions were offered to change the subject, the manager rejoiced that the reconciliation had been made. The work involved has resulted in an agreement between different parties, and the committee considers it important to respect the peace that has been gained, which is reflected in much of the positive comments received. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. So the committee suggests only minor changes that I tore up here and see changes in this committee, under writing with the one standing here. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, in advance, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Gólán S., Brjánsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson was absent from the case, and as I wrote a letter. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, under notice he intends to explain in his speech. President. I'm going to take advantage of the trip to make a very brief explanation for the changes in a special document. 1677. I mentioned earlier how important the whole matter of planning is. It's on the bill for other songs that are already in place. Environmental and Transport Committee, i.e. Change of organizational law. The law could not be completed, but since the portal was important there we agreed on the development of national planning and planning policies, including marine and coastal areas, environmental assessment and implementation. The portal is to be used for the structure and version of the implementation of the projections and for all sources in the portal. Access to the portal shall be open and free. President. I mentioned earlier that although we suggested that the office of the law in general be conducted on September 1, 2021, I suggest a change of motion at the bill that individual articles are subject to the portal being carried out on December 1, 2022. This is with the view that a portal can be established that works and that the Organization has time and resources to work with those who will use the portal to make the most of it. President. I've been explaining one side of a committee party with a change in proposals from what happened. Environmental and transport committees and, on the other hand, some changes from me, and thus, I'll speak for myself. Excuse me, no. There's one coming, Mr. President. One of the comments that came from the process was late that we could not respond to it but intended to do so. She is attracted to the events I mentioned earlier that we had observed something positive about reacting. So I propose, chief. President, that the case should return to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and that the committee continues to cooperate with that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u140	Mr. President. I would like to comment on this bill, which is, in fact, a long timely review of an important law book. As you may know, this ideal period of revision was decided. These laws are important tools where environmental protection is being balanced with resource use or implementation. Not only is the law a communication between governments, the executives, and the public in decision making, which has become so modern - day society that everyone has to have his own opinion. This involves promoting compromises in the society that is good. The evaluation of environmental impacts is also the basis for the sustainable development that we are always seeking, either for agriculture or for other projects and resource resources. There are boundaries in the community, in nature, in the economy that we need to respect. More and more important, as the human race grows, as climate change becomes more severe, we both define and respect this limit of endurance. These laws are among the tools to do so. There are a number of major projects in the water; there is continued infrastructure, only the transport, the ports, the airports, and the roads. There, assessments, such as these laws really frame in, come in for great benefit. I'd like to mention building projects too. In many parts of the country, however, there is a shortage of houses, and it's coming in very strong. I don't want to forget the energy supply, which is one of the most important issues of today's energy exchanges that are more than necessary. In Iceland, regardless of how much you want to calculate the energy needs, it turns to the production itself. Of course, these laws are considered in evaluating the environmental impacts of implementation, as is the case with the transport system that we know is defective, out - of - date even on chapters, and must be strengthened. The other is so different that according to the energy policy we presented at the Council, it is very important that energy demand is activated but not being involved in some form of energy adventures with vague buyers at energy. The wind power comes in here in Iceland with a new importance, and it, in itself, can lighten the burden of other activation options. But we treat her with caution. I'd like to mention another factor that's important in the future, and it's the energy carrier hydrogen that we Iceland can produce on a relatively large scale. It also involves laws on environmental impact assessments. I'm not gonna say it that much. I would have wanted to see something in addition to what now came into the law. I've been fighting for the activation of the 110 mW, then I'm talking about hydro-engineers, if you need something to eat, but that's not going to say hello for now, and I'm going to have to accept that. Everything I've listed here reminds us of the need for this review and the importance of the law. I repeat, compromises of various viewpoints make the law stronger than any other. Thank you. The environment and transportation committee I'm in for work and manager, anyway. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, for leading her. We can be happy with the successful and efficient work of the Committee, which returns a revised set of laws that, of course, were originally planned with all this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u141	Mr. President. I'd like to briefly establish the opinion that the Environment and Transport Committee on Environment and Transport for environmental assessment legislation and to implement this strategy is presented by an authority, why. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, in excellent and clearly. This is a big progress. This is a group of legislation being integrated and adapted to others for efficiency in the environmental assessment of projects and programmes. The bill includes a simple procedure that is especially designed to facilitate access to the procedure for the public. The introduction of the public into the environmental assessment process is even more assured. I was on the committee's opinion, and I'm quick to agree, but I've got a little bit of caution on me that I might come in on, but it's not a big one. Hv. An authority entered that according to the bill, the Agency will implement a geographic data and consultation portal, which I consider to be brilliant and essential in our modern, technical society, where projects can be observed, how processes develop and decision making, and present words and/or ideas. Mr. President. On the contrary, the bill is not walking on the rights of the environment and nature. Although this is a simple process, sustainable development, wholesome environment, and environmental protection through the environmental assessments of projects and programmes likely to have significant environmental impacts are still being developed. This is in the spirit of the emphasis we in the United States are fighting for. We are a body of building, a professional life group working on innovation with green emphasis, working with the environment, in accordance with established processes and with respect to nature. Of course, man is a part of this natural world and is designed by it, so we need to take into account all our infrastructure. We are always strengthening ourselves as a community, all our aspects of employment, but this must be done out of consideration for nature and the environment, and we make a covenant of it by law like this. Like what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson introduced this infrastructure in all areas, energy issues, transportation and employment to the sea, to beaches, to rural areas. We live in many places today; the wind, the floods, the rocks, and the further use of the earth's layers. My captain points out that in the bill's report, there's a difference between the two of us. that, in comparison with other northern nations and Scots, as it were. A manager killed on, Iceland is the only country that has been authorized to sue a financial estimate. In this way, the bill allows for reinvigoration. That's where I would've thought we were in a death box to coordinate ourselves with the North countries. I don't think there's any reason except that it's in a consistent fashion what happens, and it's going to be in the North countries and this is where we take the step fully so that we don't have a system that's gonna stand out. There was a death instrument that was not used. Hv. One authority has reported that the task force involved reached a conclusion and that the conclusion, of course, is, as it would like to be, certain compromises, and beyond. It is now, Mr. President, that in organizational and construction matters in various fields, I speak of building regulations, we can learn from the neighboring nations. We are to cultivate harmony in these areas, for the cohesive effect, or practicality, is so strong. We are moving between countries to buildings, large units, and small ones, and this is shocking when there is considerable difference in the requirements and regulations involved. There is no need, and there is no evidence, in fact, that in some cases there may be evidence for abnormalities in Iceland and other countries. I might mention what we're interested in right now, but there's some fear of death. We are not supposed to be in that part of Iceland thinking that we do most better than any other country, that we are the best in the world. From bitter experience and expensive experience, we have learned that we do not. We have also learned from our experience and from our involvement in the EEA that there we have picked up a variety of golden gems, both in rights and in certain progressive matters. Mr. President. I'm not going to keep it all this far, but I'm glad we're taking a step and we're walking out of this systematic jungle we've been in. We've heard and seen and experienced an unidentified permit and regulations environment, and found in our own skin, and experienced in society delays in performance and repeated assessments and charges of important developments in several territories. I mention such things as my prime concern, the West, and most important projects there. Finally, I want to thank my members for a fine job on this project, and especially one of the leading men, why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, for a firm and keen interest in the issues and management and endurance. He was a member of a group with important suggestions, and he never lost his focus, and we now have this bill for presentation for the council and for proper treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u142	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion on the bill for the tip of payment services. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought to mind the visitors appointed in the committee, as well as the members of the judicial committee. The bill suggests a new overall payment service law and a current payment law, No. 120/2011, dropping out. In addition, significant changes in electricity version and treatment laws are required, No. 17/2013. The bill introduces the European Parliament's Directive and the Council (EU) 2015/2306 on internal market payment services and changes in other types. As shown at 1st. is a very big matter, and it's actually listed here in the first paragraph. But I'm going to go on a short time, Mr. President, over the Commission's proposal to make some changes. They appear on a special document and are, as it indicates, in its 31 numbers and in several letters each. This is a technical matter and is a number of technical issues corrected in this changing document. The definition of a private capital is the first thing we're going to do. Commenting on the UNECE Association, it is noted that a discrepancy requiring further consideration is included in the definition of the concept of the financial base of Article 3. the bill, which refers to the definition of the term as defined in financial and financial laws as well as further precursors, including That factor 2 is equal or less than one third of the general budget of factor 1. Having agreed with the Ministry, the Commission contributes to a change in the definition, allowing factor 2 to be equal or less than one-third of the holding factor 1 instead of the general interest factor 1. 3 mg. Section 4. The bill is requested to allow the bank to provide additional guidelines on the information needed for the application and the necessary information to be sufficient for a review. According to its review to the Committee on the Committee, the bank feels that such a provision is unnecessary, but it is sufficient to publish information on the bank's website. Such a procedure is in accordance with the financial law where the bank published a list of information that comes with the need for a work permit on Article 5. The law. Puts the bat in 3rd. Section 4. The bill will be removed, but instead the joint will be added to 1st. the law on what to show in the application for the license that the FEC published public information which is considered necessary. The committee suggests a change of Section 4. the bill according to the Secret Bank indication. With the same logic, the Committee proposes a change in the number 1.17. g. The bill. For a-a-dong 1st. Section 16. is listed as a financial agency that is permitted to engage in as well as financial services. The Commission's review of financial institutions to the Committee points out that in the current payment services laws, the wording is used for the protection of property, rather than financial protection, and suggest that this be continued in the new law. The Ministry notes that the Ministry does not violate this proposal, as the Commission did not demand a financial account for the purposes involved, but only a special business account. The Committee suggests a change in the 1st team. Section 16. the bill in accordance with UNECE indication 36th. The bill is discussed as participating in the system of payment and is comparable to the 7th paragraph. current financial legislation on payment services, No. 120/2011. The Ministry's memo to the Committee calls on the committee's search for 36th par. The bill increases regulations comparable to those already available in 5 mg. 7. current track. The committee agrees with this and suggests a change of 36th. The bill of matter. According to 1st mg. Section 112. The bill shall be published on its website every result of the application of a administrative law, and the conclusion to include minimum information on the type and nature of the fracture and the name of the offender. Two. It is authorized to delay publication or publish a decision without calling a subject if a name is not in accordance with a moderate administrative rule or if published, the stability of financial markets may be compromised or damaged by an ongoing investigation. A review of the Persian Protection to the Committee suggests that 2 mg was given. value while display is out of accordance with personal protection laws. The committee agrees with the proposal, having agreed with the Ministry, suggesting a change in the subject. Six. The article shows that the results of the application of administrative laws due to violations of the law should be published on the SEC website for a minimum of five years. However, the 2nd law shows that the personal information presented in the findings should be published no more than grammatical reasons allowing in accordance with the personal protection and the processing of personal information. Commenting on the financial agency's involvement with the Committee, it is noted that there are generally no personal data published in the Persian Protection, courts, or other governments. Personal protection has ruled that the publication of personal information on government and courts is not compatible with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. The committee, in consultation with the Ministry, under the above-mentioned indication and considers 2nd matter of 6 mg. Section 112. The bill can cause doubt that it is unnecessary. Gives up the committee to let the jury go. According to Article 115. the bill gains the law values of July 1st, 2021 and takes dates in the law code 116. g. and on temporary regulations in the bill, considering. The committee has received indications that a longer lead-in period has to be provided from the approved bill until the law is accepted. Sets the commission to make a significant contribution on November 1, 2021. Then the committee suggests date at 116. g. and on temporary requisitions will be consistent with the continuation of validation. In addition to the above changes, the Commission suggests minor changes based on the Ministry's memo and points to their discussion for an explanation. Then the committee suggests a number of changes, which are technical and not intended to have material influence. In view of the above, the commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes made in a special Senate document and under the opinion of the printed page. Councilmen: Óli Þór Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee, Björk the Hafliðason of Brynjólfsdóttir, Brabbur the Gunnlaugsson of Bogi, Bordi, Bordith, Bordi, Bordi of Haraldsdóttir, the Rósa of Gunul, and A Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u143	V.E.G. President. I recommend here a committee study with a digital mailbox proposal for a central government service puzzle. The reviews of several sources received the commission, and they were all allowed to appear before the committee and discuss the matter. They're all mentioned in the Committee. The bill suggests that operating will become a digital mailbox in a central government service puzzle. Digital mailboxes have so far been performed without a specific code of law, and the bill requires that governments be authorized to submit data to individuals and digitally to a greater extent than currently available. The bill is an important step in increasing transparency, legal security, and management in individual relationships and legislation with the government and in promoting further development in digital services for the general public. The review of the Blindness Society highlights the importance of access to the digital solutions that provide the mail chamber support and that data entered into the digital mailbox will be fully accessible to blind and visually visually impaired persons. The Society reminds us of the State's commitment to the disabled and criticism that according to the bill, the public does not appear to be obliged to ensure that a digital mailbox meets the minimum requirements for everyone's availability, including blind and visually impaired. Call the Blind Society for clear instructions that all materials will be readable in a file format. According to the National Institute of Development, when efforts are made to help people with electronic solutions are often faced with great obstacles to the interests of disabled people. The National Association rejoices that, according to the bill, more interest - care providers gain the right to help their clients. At the same time, it is important that the rights law be reviewed so that the use of electronic documents will be easier for disabled people and their caregivers. The organization points out that the bill suggests that, in exceptional cases, a digital mailbox can be accessed by other means, e.g. in writing. The review expressed concern that a certain group of disabled persons cannot identify themselves by written signature, calling the organization for a solution. The committee agrees with the importance of the access of disabled persons to the use of a digital mailbox in order to ensure that their rights will be fully guarded and will not compromise the commitments made by the government of the United States. Sv. 2 mg. 10th par. The bill is permitted to introduce data into the digital mailbox in stages. A minister shall no later than the end of the year will publish a digital display plan for state and rural society, to be fully implemented on January 1, 2025. The bill's report shows that the introduction plan will be further developed on how to communicate digitally into the mailbox. The committee encourages a minister to consult the disabled people's interest groups in the preparation of the induction program so that their right to access a digital mailbox will be ensured. In addition, the Committee points out that at Section 5. is not expected to collect in any other way than in a digital mailbox until the law is fully implemented on January 1, 2025. A few reviewers noted that the bill does not require which electronic authentication methods would be sufficient for login into the mailbox. According to Iceland's National Publications Index, some 33% of registrations on the Web site Iceland.is have an Is key published by the National Book of Iceland and about 67% using electronic documents. The Agency suggests that there may be problems with limiting access to electronic mailbox using electronic forms, especially if users are living abroad. You can get an Ice Key through a home bank or mail to a embassy, but you can only get an electronic certificate if you are applying for it in person from a publishing agency. Then, according to the Federal Association, it is reasonable to believe that the State has full control over the system used to authenticate into a digital mailbox. The committee agrees with the above points and points out that there is a plan for the state to obtain identity of the company, which is responsible for the publication of electronic documents. If they want to go along with the government, they'll be relegating their accounts. Although the Ice Key has several advantages beyond electronic identification, it is still only an identification key and does not have the possibility of valid electronic signing. Thus, the security level of electronics is higher. Does the Committee believe that as the introduction of a digital mailbox progresses, the nature of the case will be determined by the more reasonable requirements for validation, including the U.S. depending on the nature and extent of the data displayed in the individual mailbox. Encouraged by the government to consider that measures for those whose circumstances do not allow them to get electronic identification are not available, it is important that an acceptable solution be prepared before the use of the mailbox in contact with the government. A review of the effect on personal protection at the time of the Court's death points out that there is an assessment of the effect on human protection. Twenty-nine. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018, legal bills may need to be requested. An assessment of the effects on personal protection is presented as a tool for evaluating and reducing the risk of individual personal protection in the implementation of new projects. The evaluation is part of government obligations and an important part of an integrated and self - righteous personal protection. 24th par. The law. The committee agrees with the above views and aims to ensure that, in cooperation with other ministers, the evaluation of national administrations that may have an impact on personal protection. In addition, it should be ensured that in all stages of software and other technologies development, there will be a review of the digital mailbox performance of the digital mailbox. The Commission notes that the digital mailbox recommended in the bill is not a new solution but, rather, a digital mailbox has been operated by the government since 2011. The legal arrangement is an important step in sharpening the currently existing law frame. In this regard, the Committee points out that the topic agency Digital Iceland has done a thorough assessment of the effects of personal protection on the entire technical environment, including the digital mailbox, which will be used to produce information under the bill. The review of Peritoneal Protection and the importance of measuring up time, the history beyond that time, and other related factors will be considered. The committee points out that data in a digital mailbox will be made available by publication, but their preservation remains for the source. Publications are ever the government, and the maintenance and dispensing of data in them will depend on appropriate laws, such as the laws on public records, the regulations of administration laws, and the regulations of information laws. The bill does not clearly identify the role of the public reader and, however, the operator of the digital mailbox, i.e. Each should be considered as a responsible candidate and either partner in the sense of a law on personal protection and the protection of personal information. The bill will not make it clear that data in a digital mailbox will be displayed only there but not saved. The committee suggests a change in 2k. it should be noted that the source is considered to be the responsible candidate to publish his personal information in a digital mailbox and that the operator of a digital mailbox is considered to be a provider who performs personal information on the responsibility of the employee. The bill does not make it clear that public sources are permitted to publish in a digital mailbox the general and sensitive person information of individuals as defined in the Personal Protection Act and the Protection of Personal Information. Is such a law necessary, since access to public identity information and sensitive personal information is based on different legal documents, and the development of sensitive personal information requires careful safety measures. The committee suggests a change in the subject. The bill identifies a minister's authority to set up in Regulation the further regulations on the implementation of the law and is included in a few numbers in what is included. The committee considers it necessary for a minister to be obliged, but not only allowed, to set up a Regulation in view of the fact that there is a bill involved in the publication of personal information and because many of the regulations of the bill are of the nature of their need for further implementation in Regulation. By enforcing the sentence of the regulations to take place in the above regulations only after further implementation in the Regulation. Therefore, the Commission suggests that changes to the requirement that a minister be required in the Regulation of further regulations for the implementation of certain laws. The bill does not clearly establish the basis for the construction, purpose, or assessment of its needs. This is not included in the manifest procedures. In this regard the Committee refers to the conditions set out in the Council and Council Regulation (EU) 2016/6779. The Commission suggests that the Minister shall be obliged to set up in the Regulation on the details mentioned above. The Committee has the right to address the importance of Persian protection and to direct it to the minister to agree with this in preparation of regulations. Other changes proposed by the Committee are technical and are not intended to influence the subject of the bill. So the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes listed in the Committee. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson writes this in advance that it is important for people and businesses to continue receiving the information on paper that will be published in a digital mailbox without any special charge to come beyond what is currently available. It is reasonable that this is true while a legal requirement for keeping a paper record. Otherwise, their expenses and effort were increased. Under these words, Brustur Níelsson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Brutísdóldsdóttir, Jóldur the Valdimarsson of Valmímur, Rólk Brynjólfsdóttir Brjornóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, Pétursson Ingi and Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, in advance mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u144	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's talk is first to agree. A senator made this clear on the basis of a proselytism. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson of the importance of paperwork and of not forgetting them important factors because it also matters for the future, to the historical record, and to the preservation of documents and so on, and not to be burdensome in the exchange process, etc. What I wanted to do with it. A senator is now doing so, so all kinds of information are being collected. Information is valuable. All the companies are going to work out on this, as we know through community services. You are being watched, as it were, as it were, for consumption, on the Internet and things, and then all of this is graded down. There has become an enormous market and value in all kinds of information. What I wanted to ask you. A senator who is: How does he feel about large companies, e.g. Here in a country that takes to collect information on the Icelanders, belong to foreign people? It would be good to have a point of view. That's the case with a senator. Can this be a matter of security concern that large companies that have made a living here in Iceland and gather information are in full possession of foreign organisations? It'd be nice if we could. A senator might comment on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u145	V.E.G. President. I don't have much to worry about collecting any information as long as it's not sensitive personal information. Of course, I'm worried about all this digital system. I'm an old-fashioned journalist in my nature. I always worry about it when we collect a lot of information about individuals in a mailbox, an electronic mailbox. I'm just really worried about that. And we can be pretty sure of that, yeah. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, all this leaks more and less at some time. It's just now, as they say. One day I bought a predatory Montblanc ink pen in foreign lands and I always get some kind of message from them. They collect information about who has bought such a pen. I don't care about that, but if it's delicate information, I'm more worried about it. But I don't think such companies have access to such things, but they collect information through all of this, about what interests we have, etc. and texting it to us. It's just some modern reality, but, of course, it's gonna be that sort of leaky. It's broken into, and it's gonna be, I don't say our daily bread, but on a regular basis, we're gonna have to try and answer for something like that in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. My concern for this is primarily that Iceland is here, for example. A large company, which is fully owned by foreign parties, which collects financial information on Icelanders. Isn't this something we need to do a little better? Such information may be useful in various ways, perhaps to those who would not really have access to it, and it is a well - known example of such information being leaked and damaged. Is that not necessary? A senator, that we're going to take a look at these matters? It is also so foreign that people have been concerned that companies are in this way cutting away a little close to national security when so much information is collected in this field, in a single place, from a foreign company. This is a case that should be considered in my judgment. National Security Council should at least to see if there is any reason to be careful about this, especially when it comes to possession. This is an introduction to this discussion that I thought was right to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u147	V.E.G. President. I can totally agree that it can harm us when some people can collect such financial information, and it can certainly cause harm, many kinds of damage, including national preparation, not just the individual or company. You're absolutely right, and I think we need to stay awake all the time, as men tell them who know and I'm sure we know why. paritaprevir Smaller Mccarthy than I do, that the online crimes and handling of information that humans communicate via electronic or digital technology are just future problems - and present problems already and will certainly be more in progress. [[And today's problems.]] That's why I've always said, "We're supposed to pick up the old card file." She was always the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u148	Mr. President. I just wanted to give a short talk to review the issues under question. It's most recently said that I'm in favor of this case. I think there may be positive progress that citizens of the country, and others who have legitimate reasons to interact with the Icelandic government, have some central, integrated place to communicate with them, and that governments and others who have good reason to interact with citizens through these devices can unite in one place. It simplifyes everything, reduces costs, and also offers flexibility and practicality. The issue remains to be revealed, however, because we are no longer talking about this classical world in which we have sent lettle letters to the old way and so on, but it is perfectly possible to make use of this for a far more effective purpose than has been the case and all good about it. What I wanted to talk about is the security scenes. That's the exact comment. paritaprevir For Birgir's Þórarinsson, who spoke earlier, there is a danger that people may want to gather information, using information in a number of ways. With integrated databases such as mail databases, there will always be an incentive for people to break into the system or to misuse the system in some way. This will also encourage attempting to download the system, inaccessible, and there is also a high risk that data will leak out of such systems altogether. To meet that point - it is not exactly the technical aspects of the committee opinion that may end up unnecessary precision, but I just want to appear in this discussion that it is very important when these systems are designed, or this system is designed, and put on permanent design, to use a modern distribution - language field to protect communication for each and one citizens. This is not to be a great challenge. This is actually possible right now because we have this identity key that has come to the phone of most people in the country. But there's a point in the committee that I thought it was important to be there, which, despite the fact that the identity system used by most Icelanders is great and awesome, and actually by the best I've ever seen - I even gave a quick talk about our identity keys in India's telethon of elections a few weeks ago, so that I'm impressed with this system -- it has a little trouble that what is really owned by a private company, which is not necessarily bad in itself, but the state has no system that is comparable, both in quality and security, which those who don't want to have the private business to really have the number and the ability to be able to perform their services. So it is stated in the committee that it is actually suggested, I'm not aware of it, I can't find it, that there will be no need for people to use this electronic system until things have been put in place so that all Icelanders can use it, and then completely no matter where they are in the world. I'd also like to think about it, so this is about all Icelanders wanting to use it, that nobody really has any legitimate reason not to use it. Of course, the expected government's purchase of the identity referred to is a factor in removing at least some of the objections. But as I say, the identity system is just great, and I suppose that there will be a cornerstone in the state's relations with the citizens of the future, and that's already the case. The short version is: Encrypt communication with citizens so that data spills are less likely to be involved. It is good to try to design this system so that it is safe from major attacks. There is good knowledge in the country of information security. It is especially on such projects that it is good to use that knowledge to the full. But I'm also going to agree with other comments, e.g. from the Blind Society; access must have the best access to such a system because, as computer technology is good now, it has, unfortunately, a certain tendency to rule out people if things are not right. In this, we have all the ability, all the means, to make sure that communication is safe, and really safer than any communication has ever been, but at the same time it is accessible and comfortable and that it offers the very best of modern technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u149	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I know he's well - versed in digital information, and there's a lot of interesting things he has to say and a pleasure to listen to him about it. I just wanted to come to what I said in answer to what I was saying. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, and continue only that friendship in the matter, i.e. collection of information, especially on the part of the foreign bodies in this country and the possible concern about national security in that relationship, even when it comes to responsibility. Now I'm not well enough in these matters, but I know the whale. The senator is the responsibility of these companies if serious leaks on information, as mentioned, e.g. while collecting financial information about parties and thousands of Icelanders? What would be the responsibility of these companies if they were informed to leak information? Some years ago, there was a large telephone company in which information leaked over a variety of messages and other information related to telephone use. It caused quite a stir, including in the media. Is there any reason to sharpen the legal environment in this regard? A senator? If he could just cross it, it would be interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u150	Mr. President. These are legitimate questions at the moment. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. The short answer is: After the GDPR directive was recorded here, the entire environment improved the environmental protection of data processing in Iceland. Data development in GDPR's sense is a highly complex phenomenon, and it is so detailed that I'm not going to go into it, even if I could recall in an instant all the definitions. The short version is: If an enterprise causes leaks out which are expected to be under the conditions of the protection laws presented in GDPR, it can be fined for up to 10 million euro or 2% of total globally. And for bigger cases, a fine can be fined for up to 20 million euros or 4% of the world's total choice. Depends on which amount is higher. So it's under a lot of pressure in the current law. Then there is an assessment of the exact responsibilities and the seriousness of the responsibility. Of course, each case is considered to be reasonable. I think these matters are just pretty well protected in the law. On the other hand, there is another problem, and I may have to come into it in the second answer, that there is not enough information about safety in Iceland yet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u151	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made clear what I was going to do in the second answer, i.e. The safety issue here in Iceland. It's good that we are undergoing a rule that says that a company will be guilty if they become informed because they can do huge damage. But by itself the damage is naturally done if such information is leaked. Then fines don't really matter. But they're natural to stop these things from happening and for the companies to have the equipment that they make sure that they can't. However, this cannot be guaranteed. Then, too, we have come to some other kind of friendship when it comes to our safety. When you're with a foreign source, a data plant, or a large foreign-own property that collects information, don't you think the holding of property should be very beneficial? Who are these foreign owners who own the big companies that collect e.g. data in this country, financial information? We need to get some information on this. Could that not be part of this discussion? We know that certain countries have been very active in presenting false information, false stories, etc. in the leading of an election, and in an effort to have some influence. So the question may be, " Could you? ' A senator will come a little closer to the security program he was going to do and then to this foreign holding that I don't think we're aware of how it could affect us? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u152	Mr. President. This is correct, but at the same time regarding foreign property, we realize that bread cannot be bought in Iceland without being baked from wheat that comes from abroad. We are dependent on other countries, and this is just as true in digital relationships and services as when it comes to goods and other services. We must realize that the whole world is united. Iceland may be an island, but it's not an island in this international system. We must make our own order and our expectations in harmony with all of this. That's exactly where we're getting on to the security show. I chose Covid.is because it's a web that many Icelanders have visited in the last year. There's a web that's kept out of the state, by the Department of Health, if I'm not mistaken, but when I look at it, I can see that there are five different things called the President's permission, a digital tool that runs through the pages. They're all foreign. I see that then 10 different sites are loaded up and all but one is out of Iceland. And this is a web fired by the United States of England. When we talk about the personal protection of Icelandic citizens, it is part of the fact that public Web sites should not allow major corporations to spy on those looking at the site. It's just the basics. Then we can start talking about how the data are new and so forth. But we need the culture, Mr. President, to see who makes a profit from the civilian information. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u153	Mr. President. I present a committee opinion with a change in proposal for this matter and will report a short report on the Committee's Committee, which also has an adjustment form in this case. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a group of visitors, as mentioned in the Senate, as well as a review from several sources and a medical note. The bill suggests changes to the social security laws, No. 45/2015. As noted in the report, there is a clear definition of the accident concept and a change in the way to and from work are defined. Then there are detailed laws on reform rights due to accidents, as well as guidelines for professional disease. Changes are made in the laws on disability and the payment of accident insurance, as well as the proposed reduction of the damage to accidents and improvement of social security, as well as other less changes. The committee talked a lot about this, and it was related to a number of opinions. The committee made comments on Article 4. The bill and suggestions for the changes in the definition of an accident and on travel to and from the workplace. The majority believe that by wording of the bill on a ▪ unmarried event, rather than speaking of a ◯utan event, the principle is clearer and more extant than the current law. The majority feel that by speaking about the ◯ natural way to and from work, rather than ◯ essential trips, there is room for the provision, as the bill shows. The majority reiterate what is presented in the report, that it must be viewed as different circumstances for children and families. So it may be a normal trip to and from work when a child is older than or in the early stages of high school, e.g. in cases where children have disability and need to be followed for more than the first year of high school. This is an important point because, as we know, the circumstances of families may vary. As a result, there may be situations where a child may have to be temporarily driven to and from school, e.g. as in the case of temporary illness. Then it may be a normal trip, and it may be important to understand that in such cases it is mandatory to have accidents if this is part of the trip to work. The review of the Commission and the reviews made comments that professional diseases should be specified in a Regulation as well as that under the current requirement of Regulation 5. The law hasn't yet been set. The majority agree with the criticism and insists that the Regulation will be followed by the agreed bill in order to eliminate uncertainty. However, the greater part points out that changes in such arts are likely to be made as wind goes on and as normal as being discussed in the Regulation rather than in the lyrics of the Law. The nature of jobs and the dangers of working may vary, and new jobs or jobs in changing circumstances may reassessment of the definition of employment diseases. On the other hand, it is important that such measures be carried out in collaboration with stakeholders and health care professionals who at any given time are expected to have the best perspective and knowledge of the circumstances that arise and may affect the development of disease. The committee noted that there are not enough rules in the laws on accidents that take place abroad. According to the German Union of Iceland, it is often difficult for employees to attend their rights because of accidents in areas where infrastructure is less stable than local and administrative channels are not effective. Then the relationship pointed out that the Icelandic employee is now going to work abroad, and he should enjoy the same rights and insurance as he does if he is a member of the country. The majority of the reports show that cases where workers work abroad from Icelandic enterprises are much different from jobs in Iceland. This adds to the fact that it may be difficult for Icelandic organisations and institutions to get conclusive information on the cause of events. There are also different laws and regulations that may apply in the host country. The more part of it is that companies who do jobs abroad and their employees have other means of ensuring their interests as employees, and it is not time to expand public insurance protection in the manner suggested in the review. The majority point to the Ministry that it and its institutions will continue to monitor the extent of working abroad by Icelandic workers working under Icelandic labour rights and whether or not there is a basis for extending the sources that result from the final language of Article 10. The law. The committee received comments on 1 1 1. the bill that states that a so-called percentage rule will be registered. I'm going to, Mr. President, come in here to the leading opinion if it doesn't cause much confusion to go into it right now, then the leading committee will deal with the percentages. It is noted in reviews that the percentage rule did not improve, and in a sense it is warned not to attach it to law, as well as to notes in a memo. The Ministry pointed out that the order had been used by a court of law, but it also pointed out that for the Supreme Court a case involved the application of the Order. As noted in the leading committee, on June 3, judgment in the Supreme Court fell. of No. 5/2021, who failed during the discussion with the committee. The court stated that a policy maker did not demonstrate the presence of a standard practice for the use of a ratio rule when assessing total discrepancies. The majority of the shares view that while there is such uncertainty, the use of the ratio rule is not safe to validate it with the bill. So the majority of the items suggest 3 mg. 1 1. The bill will be removed. However, it is considered important to refer to the Ministry to reevaluate the need for such provisions in the light of the above - mentioned judgment. In this subsequent opinion, they will write to the committees who eventually write under the opinion of the committee. The reviews and reviews of the Committee made comments on the 4 mg. 1 1. the National Medical Insurance bill to negotiate with non-US doctors on the assessment of permanent failures. A review of the Corporate Community suggests that the Agency must negotiate these agreements under the Ministry. The majority points out that the Ministry's opinions will never be binding on the Agency. Also, the more part shows that it is important for the Agency to be able to consult the most skilled experts at any given time. However, it is not possible to learn about all the issues of rare employment diseases that are present in the Agency at any given time. Then, the majority point out that the independence of the administrative institutions is important and that it is dangerous to intend that they carry out a court order daily. The committee also provided suggestions on resolve or extreme indiscretion. Interestingly, when an accident is deliberately committed, or gross inadequacies of the injured person are added to the law, it is suggested that there be restrictions on the rights of rights. Limitive regulations. The majority stress that such sources will always be used with extreme caution and in extreme circumstances. On the other hand, the greater part gives the law - based reason, such as in the case of an accident in such a way that it is clear that intent was present or that lack of self - control is caused by factors that could lead to accidents. For example, when alcohol or drug abuse has been among the causes of an accident. The committee will make a number of adjustments, and I will now trace them. In his review, the U.S. National Relations Centre points out that the A- force is in Article 14. The bill is recommended for the change of 1 5th paragraph. The law of the latter case is 1st. Section 15. The law, which is now being recommended for the beginning and end of monthly improvements as measured by Article 12 and 13. The law of the law, shall be changed to the extent that benefits are calculated from the first day of the next month after the benefits are in place and fall to the end of the month, the right to reform is complete. The Agency proposes that this change in both Article 12 and paragraph 13. The law that the monopoly will be covered and that it is reasonable to bring down the later case 1st. Section 15. I'm out of here. The majority agrees with this comment and suggests a change in the 14th paragraph. The bill of matter. Then the U.S. 17th par. the bill, be instead of referring to 21,◯22. par. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, generally referred to related improvements under Social Security Act and Social Services Act, No. 99/2007. The Agency believes that such a general reference to the law will prevent individuals from losing rights that they already have. The majority agree with the Agency's proposal and suggest a change of 2 mg. 17th par. the contents. Insurance agencies also consider the need for laws on the interaction of accidents days with improvements in social security and other laws. The Agency believes that the changing of the project into Article 3 of Article 19. The bill should fall away, for in the course of the accident money, it is still not payable for the same period as medical spending under the health insurance law. The majority agree with the National Insurance Office in this regard and consider it proper to fall from the proposed change in health insurance law. D-duty 2 of the 19th count. The bill is recommended that national insurance regulations be added temporarily to those requiring that, since January 1, 2022, payment under the social security laws does not affect the calculation of damages according to the social security legislation. According to the National Institute of Insurance, such provision is unnecessary, since insurance agencies alone consider the tax paying as an compensation under the insurance laws. The majority agree with that statement by an insurance agency and suggest that the law be removed. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes I've been tracking. And well to mark, Mr. President, as in the leading opinion I traced before, write why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir in advance and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the name of the Lord. Councilmen: Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Chairman Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Magnúsdóttir Rafney Magnydóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u154	Mr. President. Thank you. An excellent speaker and a review of this important matter. In particular, I am glad that the word change is being proposed, which is intended to emphasize that legislation includes not only accidents but also a professional disease that is not caused by accidents. I think it's a very positive step. The report then discusses some of the articles on the bill, and this will be considered in more detail. About 5. says e.g. is under increasing emphasis on the fact that the law also applies to reformable employment diseases. This is well, and it emphasizes the basic need for disease to be available for work. According to the phrase, a work disorder has to do with natural activity. Then it says: 0-2, 0-2. it is suggested that the minister appoint a Regulation to identify which professional diseases are considered mandatory. It would be good if it were. A senator could do a little better over this process. You wonder: " Is there not a danger that some groups will be excluded? I know now, for example. That firemen who are highly exposed to a scientific environment have proved to be more likely to have health problems, including cancer, came to the committee and stressed that certain cancers among firemen would be accepted as a professional disease. How should they qualify to be accepted on this list? How does this principle work, regarding the diseases listed in it? [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator could cross it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I think it is of particular importance, as indicated in the Commission's opinion, that regulations such as this will be carried out in consultation with stakeholders, including talking to form the members as a subject. A senator mentioned, firemen and medical agents, as well as others who may be relevant. Therefore I think it is dangerous to fall into that temptation, as a man might say, to go count them out specifically in the law text. The presence of cancer or other diseases in certain groups of work might lead to the conclusion that the diseases of other professions not listed in the Law text or in the Law were then less urgent in some way. I think it's very important that we don't have it that way. I suppose this is how the process will be, I imagine, without me wanting to hide how the Ministers order such a group, and we actually suggest in the opinion of the committee, that a minister would agree with the groups who might fall under it and thus would discuss themselves with conclusions. As a general rule, I would believe that the diseases that have been published in magazines, or those within the literature, would be recognized, or confirmed, as professional diseases would otherwise fall under such regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. For the answer, a senator rejoices that it will appear on behalf of the senator that diseases in which approved studies have been conducted and will be published in the established journals, which will then be stated in the Regulation. Then I specifically mention firemen because I believe that their working environment is very special, in view of many other professions when it comes to employment problems. It has been shown that in reality they never have a perfect chance of defending themselves from burning cancerous substances that are produced by smoke. I believe that it is not unusual for the lawgiver to recommend that certain firefighters, who are certainly, I would say, very, very much exposed to other professions for serious diseases and have shown it in studies and other such activities, should be placed under this professional hat and should be stated in the Regulation. This is my personal opinion, and I will review it further in a talk afterwards and measure the adjustments made by that material.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. I'll be happy to have a senator answer, and of course I'll be happy. A senator's interest in the welfare of firemen and ambulances is highly appreciated. It is true that much of their work is very risky, and in some cases it is not possible to escape the dangers of the work. You're absolutely right. But that is how many other jobs are. Therefore, I think that a list, even in the case of judges, may be of great concern when it comes to listing professions. I don't think I'll mention in judgment here in the House of Parliament what other professions can hear under it because they start picking these names and not the others, but many other professions are under considerable pressure. For instance, certain types of lung tumours found only in miners are known, and I trust to mention that because mine workers are extremely few in Iceland, it is most unlikely. I think it's much wiser to list it in a court of law, too, because it's changing from time to time. Diseases that we today believe are professional diseases may later be explained, and in a similar way, diseases that we do not realize today may be classified as professional diseases later, and it is better to have them in Regulation than in law texts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u158	Mr. President. This bill is good in many ways, and I thank the Committee for a good job on its contract. Here is a very important subject that can be related to the individuals mentioned here. I have, as shown in the counter-reguage, very interested in how the Regulation will be carried out when it comes to procrastination that is not caused by accidents. As shown in Count Five. The bill is suggested that the minister appoint a Regulation to identify which professional diseases are considered to be mandatory. The changes proposed by this, of course, which I welcome, confirm this procedure, as follows: The treatment of health insurance in Iceland due to improved employment diseases is the same as the benefits of accidents and reforms under the law also apply to improved employment diseases. Thus, when referring to an accident - related disease of the law, it also refers to those who become ill by professional disease. Of course, this is very important, and I thank the board again and again that this has come into the Law text. I have a little heart for firemen in this regard. I was a firefighter myself for some time, and I know the job well. Firefighters are often under extreme pressure and work under situations that only they really trust in, i.e. When a man leaves a dangerous situation, a burning house, firemen must enter. Granted, firemen's equipment has improved and has improved, smoke disposal, and defects, etc., but it can never be fully prevented from experiencing ill health because of the chemicals at the burn site that cause very dangerous smoke and have been shown to cause ill health in firemen. The incidence of cancer among firemen has increased in recent years, and one of the reasons is that in today's bridges all other materials have been burned. We know only that 40 years ago, insides were made of wood and wool and straw, etc. But most of what we have in our homes today comes from a variety of plastic materials and when they are burned, natural amounts of fuel and poison are released. Erivedge studies have included: demonstrated that plastic materials have been found in the urine of firemen. In Iceland firefighters have found this on their own in a literal sense. Most people who stop working as firemen today are more than 60 years old. It has to be said at the moment, President, that an extraordinary number of them are dealing with cancer, heart disease, and a vast majority of these have had, and have a musculoskeletal problem. But they were in good shape when they were younger and their whole life. In the North, firemen have brought legal cases in order to obtain improvement and recognition of employment disease, but according to the nature of the case, firemen often have no idea what material is burning in house burns, jobs houses, airplanes, or ships, and the consequences of their health. No fireman is wondering about it before going to a burning place, and he needs to save lives how that can affect his health. Firefighters have the responsibility to save people, and they risk them very much. After all, the firefighter's work is one of the most difficult jobs anyone can do. I know the feeling of entering a burning house, full of smoke and fire, and a lot of heat. It's a very special feeling. This job is very dangerous, I think everyone will recognize it and admit it. Then it is this danger that makes firemen more useful to serious employment problems than to other professions. Indeed, going into a burning house is dangerous, but it has some hidden dangers that no many are aware of. Happily, no firefighter in Iceland has died in the line of duty, but there is another factor that the common people do not know about and are even more dangerous, and it is called smoke-diving. A great awakening has occurred among firefighters worldwide because of the fact that many firemen have died of cancer and there are no other forms of firefighters. Research shows that firemen are up to twice as likely to develop certain types of cancer and that cancer of firemen grows much faster than others do. Immediately after five years of work, the chances of cancer among firemen have increased dramatically. Many studies have been carried out in this regard, and the result remains the same. In California, U.S.A., legislation was given in 1984 to assist firefighters who were diagnosed with cancer and today have similar legislation throughout the United States. Such legislation means that cancer is defined as a professional disease in terms of certain conditions. In 2002, Canada adopted a law similar to that of Australians in 2012. Although the fires that surfaced today are as serious as they were 50 to 60 years ago, the fact is that they contain much more of the chemicals that cause cancer. The World Health Organization and the World Cancer Institute have done research to show that burning is forming in the smoke an enormous amount of carcinogenic material. This has been demonstrated by established institutions, such as the World Health Organization and the World Cancer Institute. So there is no doubt that this is the case. Many studies have investigated the incidence of cancer among firemen and all suggest that there is a link between firemen working as well as an increased incidence of cancer. Although most research is carried out abroad, it can be applied to Icelandic firemen, who work in the same situation as firefighters abroad. That's exactly what makes the work more dangerous than many suspect. It is possible for firemen to protect themselves from recording such substances, only to a very small extent. It is clear, Mr. President, that the use of plastics in furniture and furniture will not be reduced in the next few decades. I think that's pretty clear. Only in China, where most of the world's plastic production takes place, there will be dozens of new plastics every month. I don't think there are many people who realize it, but it's a fact and it's hard to keep track of the materials used in the production of these plastic products. Despite much prevention, better firefighters, as I mentioned earlier, they never have a chance to protect themselves completely from the cancerous materials that can be found in the smoke generated by the burning. Then, too, it is the extreme heat that firemen face. To protect themselves from the heat, their protective clothing must be able to breathe, that is, to remove moisture, since firemen sweat extremely much during their work. This results in a clear passage of the cancerous material through the protective clothing, and most of these substances are then absorbed by the body into the skin. Hence, it is very important to set up a work procedure on the annual medical check-ups of firemen, which makes it more likely that their cancer will be diagnosed early and that certain cancers among firemen will be accepted as a job disease that will meet certain conditions. Canada, the United States, and Australia have some 15 types of cancer that fall into the category of professional disease with firefighters. As I came in earlier, after a five - year job, there will be more who have a longer age as firemen. Mr. President. It is reasonable for firemen to review the many tests that support their cause and to work to ensure the firefighters against the cancers that they are exposed to. Fire-and-reporters came to the Committee and I know that they made a very clear of their case there and gave all the information the members asked for in this regard. Firefighters in Iceland are a relatively small group, and although the incidence of cancer among firefighters has the highest level known among professions, the financial cost should not be great. In the United States, Canada, and Australia, over 99% of all firefighters are committed to professional cancer. It is long time for such diseases as cancer, heart disease, and musculoskeletal problems to be recognized by firemen. In view of all of this, since it is suggested in this bill that the Minister appoints a Regulation to state which professional diseases are considered mandatory and because of the very particular circumstances that firemen work in comparison with other professions and much more dangerous professions, I would like to state, I would like to recommend an adjustment here in order to the bill that at 2 contentmgr. Section 5. add-on: including what kind of cancer should be considered to be secondary to professional disease of firefighters. The purpose of this project is that it is the lawgiver's will to the Minister to look for firemen to be highly exposed to certain types of cancer based on established studies. Of course, I hope that this proposal is made here, and I reiterate what I said before, I believe that firefighters' working conditions are in such a way that it is necessary for the lawgiver to provide this protection for firemen, so to speak, and this counsel to the minister that they will be listed in the Regulation on professional diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u159	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize damage insurance laws, social security, employment and benefits. This is the best part. It's always good when the law is being revised and synchronized in every way, and maybe I don't have much of a plan. But what was starting to upset me when it came to 1st. and what I've done most about these matters is these amazing sums that are put into such cases. True, the damage laws have now been referred to, but 13. Act on the accident insurance insurance policy will be word for word, by President's permission: ▪ If an accident occurs within two years of an accident, a surviving partner or a partner who has died for the price of 4,900,000 dollars should be paid. Now the deceased do not allow marriage mates or spouses who are entitled to be expedient. 1.mg. and then add to the accident 896,872K. which divide between children and/or unborn children if they are alive, and otherwise to the death. From the death reforms paid by the problem, the damage paid at a single time should be withdrawn. Section 12. due to the same accident I think that number, 896,827 k., is pretty amazing. I ask myself, " How in the hell has she been found out? ' It's just a million things. Somehow this calculations have been made and I don't understand how. I could have understood, given the preceding court of 4.9 million, that there was 1,000,000 or 900,000 there, but I can't understand how that can stand 896,827 bucks. Of course, that is amazingly accurate in a very small amount. What does this tell us? It tells us that we need to reevaluate these figures, and we are under obligation to do so. If we just put it in line with the average wage in the country, the death rates are just over half of them and those 896,827 bucks. is just over 10% of that amount. Because we are referred to in part to the damage laws, we must not forget that their maximum misdemeanors amount to 4 million, that is, in part, calculated, and at 70 years of age, we are down to a minimum of 3 million. It's very low numbers. This is not the case, but in the face of accidents or illness, poverty is basically the result. These are so low benefits, and you can't point out that you may run into disability and receive disability improvements. Nobody wants to land on disability. There is no human who can dream of being in that place of luxury. The fact that people are in a position to receive little or no compensation, and then perhaps they also have permanent disability if they can't work tells us that we should revise all of this so that they can't bring even more emotional and physical stress when you've basically been under double stress, first in an accident or in an illness, and then, in economic anxiety, because of the situation you're going to have done, and you realize that this has led you into a state of failure that you don't have a chance to see yourself or your family living. As a result, I hope this bill will improve things. There are certain groups that are being put together to try to sharpen and remove the old system that was in Iceland's Medical Insurance that wasn't good. I hope that's better. I know it says here every two years to revise all of this, and I'm hoping that by then everything will be revised. In fact, the Minister of Justice had already said that she would revise the damage laws that are long in time, but unfortunately she did not get into it. They have not really been updated since 1993; they were only updated in 1997. It is long time to take all of this for further review and make it a pleasure. It is human right to suffer from illness or accidents that health is gone and economics and prospects for a decent life also go away. It's better back home than it's gone. All of this, of course, is better, but it has to be done. We must also realize that these individuals can also be with children, and this is a great strain if we do not do well. I just hope that after this bill is approved, one day it will be on schedule to revise the damage laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u160	A respectable president. I'm here offering an opinion with a greater part of the welfare committee's proposal for a bill to change child protection law, No. 80/2002, i.e. for child protection services, integration, etc. The committee has discussed the matter and received to her meeting Halldóra the Hall of Dröfn's Helga and Hallgrímsdóttir Magnúsdóttir from the Tryggvadóttir of Social Affairs,Benediktsdóttir Rún and Steinunn Birna from the Union of Iceland, Heiða Björg Pálmadóttir Pállórn, Ólöf Ásta Farestveit of the Children's House, Helga Sigríduróðóðóðúríðóðúri Kurðúsðúsðúríðúróróðúróðúsðúsðústir. There were reports from Children's Health, Child Welfare, Children's Protection Agency, the Social Advisory Association of Iceland, Personal Protection, and the Union of Iceland. Then the commission received a memo from the Department of Social Affairs. The bill suggests extensive changes in child protection laws, No. 80/2002. Child Welfare Services will be removed and the districts of Child Welfare are enlarged. There are also some adjustments in child - protection laws. The bill contains regulations that deal with integrating child - welfare services with other services for the benefit of successful children. In this respect, the bill is linked to an integrating process for the benefit of children's well-being, which the Minister of Social Affairs has also proposed to the current council. Then the bill considers changes in child protection laws presented in the bill for the Children's and Family Laws and a bill for the Health and Health Organization Act. The bill includes the first part of the overall child protection analysis. The reviews to the Committee repeatedly suggested that the review be completed as soon as possible. The majority agree with the importance of the immediate fulfillment of the latter part of the overall child protection analysis. The majority point to the Ministry of Social Affairs to continue working on it so that a complete review of the next legislation can be completed. Six. The bill suggests the general rule that minimum population behind each child - protection service will be 6,000 inhabitants. This is a change from the current child protection law of 1,500 inhabitants. A review of the Children's Protection Agency states that it was possible to go further and aim for even larger districts. That would even be the case. can be prevented from being large-sized between districts. The majority of the data shows that the target of 6,000 inhabitants is developed in collaboration with rural areas and that this is a significant increase from the current law. Therefore, the majority do not count a reason to go further in child - protection districts at this time. A review of the Children's Protection Agency also comments on the lack of minimal knowledge that every child - welfare agency needs to meet. I don't think it's enough for 3 mg. B-joins 6. The bill is an advised from the criteria of a minimum of 6,000 inhabitants according to minimal knowledge but should be universal. The majority stress the importance of child - welfare practices as well as professional. 3 mg. a-arms 6. The bill shows that child - welfare services have enough knowledge to enable them to carry out their assignments under child protection laws. This will be shown in 4 mg. a-arms 6. The bill that the Minister can set up a Regulation on knowledge enough. The majority believe that this legal right of the Ministers meets the viewpoint of consistent minimal subject knowledge. To the Committee, there was also discussed the exchange of information on child care measures for others involved in integrating services for the benefit of the child. It's U.S. Federal Protection, and it's also called the Trinitarian Guard. proposal to change to Article 10. the bill that discusses the obligation of child protection services to provide information to the contacts or advocates to determine whether or not the decision to start a survey is made. It suggests that this information should not be transmitted but should be evaluated for the need for communication in child protection services. When it is decided to start a survey, there is only limited information on the child at the child's Child Protection Agency. If personnel of the child - welfare agency were to be assigned to evaluate the need for the communication based on the child's interests, additional personal information should be provided. So the majority are not convinced that an assessment of the need in this situation is, in effect, less resources for children's privacy. The majority believe that this defender, that the processing of personal information on the basis of the arrangement depends on the request for integration of services, the loyalty of a moderate measure of processing, and that there is no basis for any further response to this comment. Regarding the position of the Children's House, the committee explained that children's house was finally restored and that their business is permanent. The bill recommends the arrival of a children's house to investigate cases of serious physical or mental abuse. One journalist expressed concern that a children's house would not be funded enough to care for more projects and to work on available waiting lists for the service of a children's house. The majority agree with these comments, stressing the need to shorten a waiting list and that sufficient funds will be provided for the Children's House business. The bill suggests that the Child Welfare Services and the Children's Protection Board will be implemented. The majority depends on what's going to happen. published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, U.S.A., published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York. For the Committee it was discussed a district order that includes a significant new note, and legislation on the state level up to this point has not been assumed by the order of an independent administrative committee. A majority agree with the European Union that it is difficult to foresee the effects of these changes with absolute certainty. However, on the part of the rest of the section, it is emphasized that no significant material comments have been made under the order of the district. Doesn't think the greater part is a reason to react specifically to this comment. A-team 2. And the B-T-S. 1 5. The bill is presented with changes in child protection law, with the goal of promoting increased rights of children. Children's rights to participate in children are emphasized as being of little value if they are merely considered to be formal. It also states that unless the child's staff and spokesmen are being spent on the project, this rights will not be realized. The majority agree with these views and emphasize that the rights of children laid down in the bill will be followed by governments. In a 22nd degree. The bill comes in, including... to suggest that once child care or custody has been taken over by a child, a child's success should be integrated in the welfare of his or her child regardless of her parents'view. A review of the Persian protection notes that services are always integrated in this situation. It suggests that integrating should be given the authority to integrate. The position of the children under child care or custody is always in a way that the child's interests require integration of services. So the majority do not consider it a reason to respond to this statement by Perconte. The comments of Reykjavíkurburg and the Union of Iceland are expressed concern that the presence of child - welfare services and child - welfare districts leads to the expense of rural society. On the basis of current child protection laws, there are five or seven members of the Child Welfare Committee, but according to the bill's proposal, three members of the Children's Environment Programme are expected. At the same time, rural society is added to cooperation with the district Council and may be expected to achieve economic advantage by further cooperation. A greater proportion agree with the European Union of rural society that it is important to monitor the impact a new child protection system has on the economy and the management of rural society. So here are some of the more parts involved in the division of children. With law No. 28/2021, of which 23 April, was the subject of changes in child protection laws, No. 80/2002. These included changes in Article 15. children's protection laws to resolve which child - care committees have a solution to their child's affairs when parents agree to change their children's quarters. F- force 6. The bill is presented to make changes to Article 15. child protection. The law does not allow for the exchange of children, but the bill was submitted to the Council before the law of No. 28/2021 were approved. To make sure that there is no proof of what child - care services will be resolved in a child's case when parents have agreed to replace their child's habitat, more is suggested to change the bill according to the rules of the law No. 28/2021. Then there's information done in a central database. In the 28th C.E. The bill is authorized by a minister to decide in Regulation to place in child protection services to work and preserve child protection data in the paediatric databases and digital solutions obtained by the Children's and Family Services. The review of Peritoneal Protection states that the Agency's assessment is inadequate to support the implementation of data in the paediatric protection of a central database and digital solutions in regulations rather than in the law itself. According to the Department of Social Affairs, it is clear that digital solutions and databases will not be ready when the law takes effect. So let's put some more of this thing into a change of 28. the bill in order to oblige the Children's Protection Agency and the Child Protection Board to preserve child protection data from central databases and digital solutions along with provisional measures allowing the exception of this rule until technical solutions are fully prepared. The majority suggest that a secretary be authorized to provide information to be developed in databases and digital solutions. The implementation of all data in child protection with technical solutions would result in failure to achieve a child protection case if the technology solution was available for any reason or was not available to the relevant child - care provider. So it is true that a minister has the authority to state the scope of such a duty, including when it does not apply. Then a larger part agrees with the character protection of the importance of access control in a paediatric database. In this regard, the greater part is particularly important to make clear that there is an analysis between integrated services based on child protection laws and other integrated services in the interests of successful children. Then to other things. The bill contains complex and complex changes related to the replacement of the words ◯ Child Protection Committee and ◯ nominated. The Ministry of Social Affairs pointed out that in several places it would have been neglected to consider this and contribute to the change in the subject. In the bill, the word "males " is also translated" woman " into a woman who is a child who is lying on the subject as compared to 1 mgr. 17th par. has overlooked this change and corrected the more part by making a change. Finally, the greater part feels that there is a need to correct in several places references and expressions that do not depend on the material aspects of the bill and therefore do not need to explain further. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes I've presented. Under this heading, the following publications will be written. Councilmen: Helga Vala Helgadóttir, president of advance, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristoffsdótttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústóttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason, also in advance. I just want to talk from my heart about the importance of these changes. This consultation and preparation have been held for the entire ideal period, and negotiations have been made to rural society from the first phase of the ideas, as well as to the services provided by service workers and service workers at the table. By agreeing with this bill, there is a huge change in the environment of rural children who are responsible for this category. Today, 27 child - welfare committees throughout the country are wide, with a minimum of 1,500 inhabitants, but these changes are minimally raised to 6,000. We realize that these are big changes and a whole new environment. The biggest changes are that the bill includes... ... thatthepoliticalSengineeredCation Committees will be laid down. We've been tracking a lot of changes in Child Welfare Services over the years, and they've all been a blessing, including when districts were enlarged. In the past, even child - welfare committees were in small yokels. It tells itself that it was very difficult to share without food in those committees, even though everyone may have tried to do what they could to work for the child protection that was then in effect. Then there are changes to the Precinct District Council of Children's Protection. As shown in the bill and the opinion of the committee, this is being separated, and it is all done for the children who are working and trying to take it as professionally as possible. By producing political committees, it tells itself that decisions made on the committees are on a professional basis. I think these are the most recent changes that have been made in the last few decades. This bill is also part of a major change in the system adopted earlier today to provide opportunities for child protection. Then there is the criticism that has been in the environment of children's protection for many years, bringing it to a modern sense of child rights. We're changing the system of child protection and welfare system through integration of all services to children, and this is just a new thought, new approach. Granted, some stones of the induction are going to be rocked, but we are on our way, and that is what really matters, whether in integration or in child protection. This will give us better individuals and hopefully a more professional approach to the ministry that we are going to perform for children. But it is as if in many ways that what is best today can become something else after ten years. But when we are started on this journey, it will always be so that we will be updated to the best knowledge and to meet our children in the future with the sincere desire to do the best we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u161	President. I say here for the leading party more than half that. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. The case was called in after 2nd. and discussed the matter again, taking special note of the interaction between the job expenses and other members of the Parliament and the Minister. We, under the opinion of this office, insist that the Parliament's Marriage Act and the Senate budgets place significant limits on the work expenses and other requisitions. I'd like to reiterate it here, because it was only discussed. Environment, and remind us that the Supreme Parliament's Marriage Act and the Congregational Costs place the rules on job costs and other re-elections as important as the Act on Iceland's Management Board states in 2 mg. Twenty-seven. that the Minister who handles the government's personnel matters set general rules on the work expenses and other re-elections in agreement with the prime minister. That includes the rules. agreeing with the rights of the Generals and the presidents of political parties in the General Assembly to pay expenses for their political activities. In other words, when the Council has approved a change in the terms of the General Assembly contracts and the Senate costs, as we are suggesting, a minister should take the regulations for a reexamination to ensure that they are in line with the changes decided by the General Assembly. In line with this, as also noted earlier in the discussion, the Ministry of Presidency, and now the last financial and economic secretary, has at 2nd. The case, confirmed that further proposals will be made to change the rules that include similar restrictions on the reimbursement of a secretary of the election in favor of an election, as expected in the bill. The majority stress that appropriate review and accordance with Ministers will be undertaken quickly and effectively and the Council will be informed of the progress of the matter. President. According to this, the majority suggest that the bill be passed on. In addition to this opinion, it is written by the committee. The members of Jón Þór Ólafsson, Ingi In Jónsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, and Þórarinn Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u162	Mr. President. I have fought this issue since it first appeared on the Council Presidency Committee because ministers are left behind. In itself, they can do whatever they think of during these six weeks that are set up here as a pre-election period. I'm so surprised that the members of the branch office of the greater part are quoted at the top. Secretary of the budget for the 2nd. In confirmation that ministers in the controversies of the election would need to travel through many areas, through the country and the media, in their role as ministers to answer for his actions as ministers. He was then telling us that, despite all that has been put here, with letters from two Ministry Officers, that the election should be considered in this respect before elections. I have said this before, and will fulfill such rules, I expect it to be in November, because there is no hope for this to be corrected before that time. I've had it so many times over this public speaking chair, Mr President, that I am very impressed that there's a similar difference between those who volunteer for the first time and those sitting here at the council. And since I am a council member of the Soviet Parliament and was formerly a senator in the Southwestern district, these regulations apply virtually nothing to such people. It doesn't matter whether they have to drive long or short, e.g. In a campaign, they don't get paid back, so it doesn't concern the members of the council here. However, there are members of Congress, e.g. The so - called home council members who are to form in the northwestern district and in the Southern district, who have undoubtedly applied themselves to these six weeks before election that they have some business as members of Congress, that their presence as members of Congress is requested at some meeting here and there or a council or something. In other words, they are to pay for it themselves during the past six weeks. But this was made clear in the case of the highest. Secretary of finance the other day, he did not view the rules that are being set here today, that they apply to a minister in an election's success. For that reason alone, I am as opposed to this matter as I was when it was first proposed. I'm sorry that we are now putting ministers, who are usually members of the council like the rest of us, on someone's side that they have a superior position compared to us who are sitting here, members of Congress. It's so remarkable, because now it's time to change even this hall even and technology him, that it was one of the things that came up in informal talks the other day; that men thought it was an example of the Ministers sitting in chairs marked with tails while members of the council were sitting in chairs unmarked. They said, "If we change the hall, let's change it, let's change the feeling here. " So as much as I am because the human situation is equal, it must be that some people are less equal than others. But with this payment the Ministers will be evenr than anyone else, from now on. That's why, Mr. President, this bill cannot be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u163	President. I come to a conclusion that's pretty much the same as that. paritaprevir It's the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, but from another point of view, i.e. I'm in agreement with this bill, I think it's obvious and I'd like to go further. I don't see the point of dropping out those who aren't after reelection. There's no need to distinguish between them. But as for the Ministers, I think it is obvious that the rules that are set in the councils can be arranged in the same way as those made to sit down - and do so well. On the other hand, it can be screwed up like a whale. paritaprevir It's the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson that explains as well as if it does, I agree completely with him. But that's not the purpose of this bill, in my opinion. The purpose of this period is for ministers to have the same conditions as that of members of Parliaments reimbursed, or when the General Assembly is still at work or when a member of the Parliament is involved. This means that if a minister is visiting some school along the way - before the elections 2016 or 2017, this is all over, I was at the car of prime minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, while he may be visiting some school in the process -- before the elections of 2016 or 2017, this is all about to happen, I was at the car of the then prime minister, during a campaign meeting in Ólafvivik after he had met him at the National Institute School of Persis since he was then visiting as a minister but a new trip to the election in the car as well. You can't do that. It is not possible to take it as part of a campaign mission to a minister's car and expect that it does not have to be paid for in the conventional way. I remember when then Senator Brynhildur Pétursdóttir was on a campaign east of the country and also used his time only to visit relatives, she told me this story in the media. Of course, she wanted to pay special for that part because it wasn't for the council, and it was extremely difficult. But as far as I'm concerned, it worked, she paid that part, and that's exactly how it's supposed to work for the Ministers as well. If this is not done, the Ministry is simply going against this bill, and it's a serious matter and something the Senate is supposed to pay very close attention and react if it's not done right.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u164	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for the synopsis of public health policy to the year 2030. The committee discussed the matter in several meetings and made visitors, as mentioned in the opinion, as well as a number of references. The proposal suggests that public health policies will be set up until 2030 and that there will be seven major subjects, as has already been done in a medical conference until 2030. Using this method, though there are other factors to consider, the work that is already behind the Ministry of Health in the field of health care. A general support for public health policy was presented in the host's reviews and hearing of the objective of the Council of Health for Public Health until the year 2030. Does it feel that it is the logical continuation of previous public health policies set in 2016? The Commission's review caused concern over the comments of a reviewer on the lack of consultation when proposaling a policy was made. The majority of these worry, stressing the importance of consultation with those who are supposed to enforce their policy. This will give the majority special attention to such consultations when it comes to the implementation of the policy and its action. There are obvious members, such as the development of rural communities, including the Social Services of the Company, sports and youth communities, and others. The importance of public health and prevention for all age groups was noted for the importance of general public health policies. It was also introduced, particularly in a review from the National Institute of Health, Iceland's University, that the procedures based on scientific knowledge and cooperation with the scientific community and factual research were important. It also pointed to the important role of health care in this context, not only in direct action but also in education and education and ways to direct people. There was a measure of concern that the cost would be accompanied by an increase that might be affected by the rural community and by the rest of the policy follow-up and take action on its behalf, and the nature of the situation will be as such. However, it is important to note that this course, which, of course, does not change into any existing job exchange between a state and a rural partner or a existing deposit exchange, i.e. The ransom exchange between these administrative points does not change. The influence of public health policies on children and young people was brought up in this regard to the importance of caring for a whole family with the goal of strengthening families and improving their ability to adopt a way of life that serves public health goals. It would be important to consider the implementation of the public health policy that it would not take into account the subjects in the field of health care, but it would also be taken care of in family and social matters, as mentioned earlier. In this regard, the cooperation and communication of families, schools and health systems, youth service, etc. were discussed. It was observed that development would be an important method for assessing the benefits of policy measures and, in this context, it is important to look to both financial and social benefits. The committees could be used to monitor and display tests. Such levels are already in use and/or develop, and it was noted that it is important that such instruments be used to help policy forward. Inevitably, the development of the social age generation and its impact on the predictable future was established. Hence, it is of vital importance that policy results in success, in order to develop the health and public health of older people in the coming decades. Moreover, it was noted that measures were important so that all the people of the country would be expected to take advantage of the measures that public healthism might bring and would have the opportunity to absorb the benefits they enjoyed. To that end, the project needs to be considered by gender and gender, background and language, disability, employment market status, economics, and many other aspects of the public's position to absorb what public health policy has to offer. The majority agree with these indications and believe that the widespread and general public health policies established under the Parliament's resolution will touch very many areas of society and will lead to new action and policy development in many areas. There will be opportunities for new cooperation, and opportunities will provide special attention to the public health of various groups and areas that are important for success. The majority of the importance of broad consultations with the partner is highlighted, as it is reasonable to assume that the best way of meeting these important policies is to be achieved. In this respect, the majority suggest that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Helga Vala Helgadóttir writes in advance. The majority of the elements illustrate the importance of broad consultations, as it is reasonable to assume that this will be the best way of agreeing on this important policy. In this respect, the majority suggest that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Chairman Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u165	V.E.G. President. We are here on public health policies until the year 2030, which is quite ambitious. The bill itself went into a court of agreement with the government, and there were nine envelopes. A meeting group was also established that discussed the main policy objective and set it down. Then the bill comes into the council, and maybe that's what I'd like to talk about here. A panel sent out a statement request to 118 parties, and 18 members submitted their references. Then we had three meetings where this and other matters were planned. What I want to say with this is that I like my suggestion, but I think we've had to have a lot more time to work it well enough so that we could see a little further into the past or even take it a little more on the depth. According to the World Health Organization of the Greater part, public healthism is somewhat similar to health policy, which exists until the year 2030. It's kind of similar. It's the same headlines. Of course, there is general support that we put ourselves in a public health policy, but in late stages it has been noted that we have not been consulted with clients. Those who came before the committee tolerated these concerns. The majority naturally stress the need for consultation when implementing a policy. There are good goals in this room, but perhaps there is one of the most missing ones when we are discussing those who are going to pursue this course, it will usually be those who are most in the vicinity of the community, i.e. The rurals and health care. We know that health care has, for example. Recently, if we can say so, we would want to get more money to do our basic work, and that call needs to be taken seriously. So there are many things to think about. Then there are the rural areas that will have to implement these public health policies along with youth-friendly society and other sources. The rural population will have to follow this course or be an executive and will therefore have to carry the cost. However, there is no opportunity to cover that cost here. This appears to be more likely to result in some measure of effect and may cost them accordingly. It leans a bit on a social occasion in this public health policy. As far as I'm concerned, it's a bit of medical aim instead of dealing with social factors. Social factors also call for the wide cooperation of a number of parties, including sports and youth associates and then just the public and the family. The economic situation may vary and social situation may vary. The committee noted that the development of age change and population levels was considered in the predictable future. Since we need to know that more people will grow old, we will have to look after them. That means we need to consider public health during all ages. The multiplicity factors are also included. We're all different, and we're all talking about sex, gender, gender, background, language skills, disability, job market status, etc. But I also want to mention that rural areas are often largely different from urban areas. People's health policies, of course, are that everyone has the same access to public health as public health has to be expected to make this possible for everyone. I may feel that this is one of the standards I need. But we also look to people who live in rural areas and urban areas for equal access. Otherwise, it's a good start. I'd still like to argue that we had accepted, I'd like to mean it, and it would have been better for us to have more time than then to discuss this at three meetings and more cases that were under there, considering that we're setting a policy that will apply until 2030.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u166	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend the committee's list of parts of the General and Education Committee for this case, which is in charge of full punishment. The matter was, as mentioned in a committee study, sent out a review, and we had guests at a meeting of the Committee. The main points of the matter are the proposed temporary alteration of the law on the full penalty of parole and the granting of full authority through community service. This is a dilation designed to shorten the waiting list for full punishment. The committee noted that during the treatment of the matter, there was a view that there was reason to make the arrangements permanent. The majority of the rights to cut off the service list as things are looking at now, and to the greater part that it is desirable to observe whether the bill has the desired effect before it is firmly established. The more important thing is that at the time of the law it will be considered whether a decision for community service is an administration decision or if the courts should be assigned to that decision. This is a matter that has often been discussed in recent years, whether it should be a government decision to determine whether it is authorized to fulfill the sentence of community service. We do not make a suggestion for changes in these matters as to the release of this case, but the judicial decision that it is important for this discussion to take place and that it will be considered permanently. The majority also points out in the paragraph that the source found in Article 1. The bill is intended to include all the judgments issued before the execution of the law and at the time of the full execution of the Institute of Prison as well as all the judgments made by the Agency on July 1, 2024. The majority of these laws are considered desirable in the preliminary rules and suggests changes in the content. In addition, the majority suggest a change in wording on 1 mg. b-joins 1. the bill that is not meant to have material influence. In this case it should be kept in mind that this is an authority rather than an obligation or right, so it will continue to be an assessment that determines whether or not the resources of the bill must be used. The greater part of this includes the security of individuals applying for community service or parole sooner or later, whether they qualify to receive such treatment. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to have this story longer than I can imagine, but under the heading this article, I'm going to write the following members of the General and Education Committee: Whoever stands here, President Páll Magnússon, Chairman of Steinunn Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótnar, Turnar Ájörnótir, and Thordjöld Ævarsdóttir Övjörnótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Preservation of the Birgir Ármannsson of an Aarhus. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into what he came into his history, i.e. that if I understood the point, it will be considered how to achieve it before it is made permanent. A senator is correct. Is it not, then, designed to work exclusively on these models and art that are considered to be a problem, which I would have considered to be possible, too, to work better by building prisons or funding the available so that these lists could be won? The language attracted my attention; that this should be examined before the decision to make this solution permanently. My understanding was that it was looking forward to removing these slow - running, long preaching lists. Then you ask yourself, " What then? ' Is there any evidence that this arrangement will be the future solution, and that will result in the loss of all the fractures we are less than two years of punishment - that is the result - being timed out by community service? I don't feel that there's a sound and image together as to the fact that this solution is being temporarily introduced to work on the arts, but it should be considered specifically before making a decision that this application will be made permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. It is good if we can explain these factors further. The bill as it is prepared, and as the committee puts it down, temporary resources are expected to be involved. Because money is supposed to apply to July 1st, 2024, allowing for a three-year period. The words as hell. A candidate refers to the response of a greater proportion of the committee to indications or suggestions that were made during the trial that this law would not be temporary but permanent. We do not believe that there is a basis for taking such a stand. We feel that accepting temporary ordinances is enough now, as it is three years for us to take sides in the indications or suggestions that have been made on the permanent arrangements of these matters. I don't think I can explain it further, but then I reiterate what I also said in my introduction, that this is, of course, a warrant. We are in a position to have resources we know, but we are making room for them to be administered. We do not believe in the greater part of the Committee that there is a basis for this or that an investigation or discussion has yet been in place for a lasting purpose. Rather than taking that stand, we refer to that question as a question to the future, three years to evaluate it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't have the opinion of the committee here with me, but when I ran over it, I didn't think there was much guidance on what you could understand as an answer to the question: And then what? After three years, this will be checked, and no doubt they will come along and say that it was all going very well, and the list went very well. However, I would have liked to see the position of the Committee not only to observe how the lists developed but also to perform some analysis of the need for support and support of the resources established by a prison agency, both in the number of available spaces and then, of course, the number of budgets available to run. The reason for such preaching skills is that space and financial support have been lacking. This we know through history. I'd like to ask you what. Prominent to the Commission's review: Was it to some extent discussed with the prospective Minister of Justice to perform any diagnostic analysis in this regard? There is a danger that when it comes to keeping the system in this way, they could be able to see that it was all going fast, because this space has gone from 3 months, if I remember correctly, to 6, to 9 and 12 and then for 24 months now. It is likely that there will be very few groups of offenders that actually need to be imprisoned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does one authority reason on whether this should be divided, limiting what kind of piece this may apply?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u170	Mr. President. There's a lot of stuff going on here. A senator who has reason to agree, i.e. that, of course, is compatible with what options are available in the prison system. The committee is not to be understood, so it does not feel that we have reached the end of a prison building or any of these factors, not at all. However, this is where we were taking our stand on a specific proposal, not on a broader basis. But there is good reason to agree with that statement. A senator said that this needs to be done on a complete basis. I view it as the three - year - old time of this bill, or the changes offered here, as an opportunity to take a stand on the future arrangement in this regard, and not just from the public arts but from other sources of witnessing, but from the posts of the prison system. However, I would like to agree that the prison system, as sad as it may sound, has to be prepared to perform the services required from a judicial hearing and the need to save prisoners.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u171	Mr. President. I just want to introduce community service in general as extramarital resources instead of illegal prison sentences. In fact, I'm saying it, and I'm saying it. paritaprevir Of course, the son of Bergþór of Ólason, who opposed us, is expected to provide sufficient funds for the imprisonment of the country. Such measures should be made in wide context, not necessarily because of a lack of money for business and construction in the country. It's a natural thing to be well financed. It's just part of the legal kingdom we live in. However, recent developments have included the increased use of these instruments, this community service strategy. It may also be appropriate to point out at the outset, Mr. President, that for social services - defined on the website of a prison agency, there are questions answered and found interesting to consider the requirements for meeting, how the rules are, etc. We must not forget that on the other side there is someone who will accept those who are in community service. Social services include a temporary job that someone needs to give the job, and there is a natural need to be in a position to do so. Nor should this concern be forgotten. Over the last few years, individuals who serve their sentences in community service have increased. What may be most important in it from my viewpoint is how it is most likely that humans will be able to recover when they come back into society. I think there's a very important part of this case. Experience has shown that if you are locked up for a short period of time, the frequency of your return to prison, called the emptying rate, is higher than for those in community service. It is stated on the part of prison authorities that community services have been successful and only about that. 16% of those serving their sentences in that way fold back, and that's a low frequency. There have also been increased opportunities to serve part - time in so - called open prisons, and this has also proved to be effective in breaking back some less. It is important that we have the best knowledge of the success of prison systems in hindering further crime, my sentence is very important. There are differences in prison systems, and there are specific ways for humans to determine where they are. Iceland and Norway are believed to have a criminal policy that emphasizes the rehabilitation of prisoners, for example, in the United States. The penalty policy is harder and doesn't make prisoners re-created. Prison authorities, and I think this is important, need to know which kind of punishment is best. The so - called trajectory rate describes the success of prison systems in preventing further criminal activity, and the critical rate of crime is basically the only way to assess the results of different criminal systems and to give evidence of the quality of a certain criminal system. This is shown in the criminal Seeds. Mr. President. When I was studying this bill and reading about it, I have to say that I've been interested in developing a full community service in this regard, I recently met a BA essay at the University of Iceland, by the Ólafía Lau Laufey of Steingrímsdóttir Monsters. The essay gives an interesting overview of theoretical research on the success of prison systems in preventing further crime. In particular, this leads to community service and much of the interesting things presented there. If I let myself grab hold of her a little bit, with President's permission, that's where it says: In recent years, social services have been used more as means of imprisonment. It is also generally considered more practical than putting people in prison, so it is important to examine its impact on the reading rate. As noted earlier, the performance of prison systems is to prevent further crime. ▪ Most studies suggest that community service does not significantly reduce the central rate compared to incarceration. Thus, studies have shown either no difference between prison and community service (e.g. Killisa, Aebi and Ribeaud, 2000) or community service has a lower objective rate but the difference is not significant (Muliluvuori, 2001; Spaans, 1998). Then it was observed in Spaans (1998) that there is a tendency for individuals serving in community service not to commit as serious a offense as those sent to prison that can certainly affect the low rate in this group. Baumer, et Baumer. (001) of the crime record in Iceland showed significant results in this regard. It may be that during the period when community service was just starting here, the study examined the progress rates of those who completed community service in Iceland from 1995 to 1998. - It's been a while. The results were that the frequency of trajectory was generally the highest among those who completed the sentence in prison. You should keep that in mind, and this is a study conducted here in Iceland. She was among those who completed a social service as a result of a new police intervention or a new judgment within three years. Those who completed community service were followed for three years after the full completion and were 17% again imprisoned, 22% were again judged, and 55% had just been replaced by police. Study Graunbøl, etc. (2010) showed similar signs. Of those starting community service in Iceland in 2005, 16% had received a new judgment within two years. It is a low frequency and satisfaction, and it certainly is worth considering. When making decisions on these matters, it is important to discuss with scholars in this area who may have spent half their lives studying these matters, criminals, and others. It is important that people listen to those who may know best in these matters. This essay speaks of American research, which is very interesting. But we know that U.S. criminalism is harder than here and Norway. In Iceland, prison punishment is not used unless necessary and with certain goals. This view is reflected in the prison system in that prisons are small and few. Prisons have been organized according to unsolved methods that should promote the rehabilitation of prisoners and ensure a successful reinvestment of the community (Baumer, 2002; Pakes and Gunnlaugsson, 2018). Because of lack of money - which is important for us to work permanently - the legal projects in the country's prisons have not been sufficiently cared for. It's coming even. Helgi Gunnlaugsson, professor of criminal studies at the University of Iceland's Social Sciences. ▪ In recent years, the quality of concentration service has increased. [...] In view of this, Iceland has been successful in correcting prisoners and keeping them away from prisons. - This results in 2001 studies and 2010 research. In general, in view of these findings, it is possible to conclude that national surrogacy is undeniably affecting the success of the land in recycling offenders and, hence, the possibility of a return to justice tolerance. This is my introduction to this case, Mr. President. I reiterate, as I said earlier, that, of course, governments are supposed to make sure that money is there to run the prison system in Iceland and the cause of this case is to temporarily shorten a waiting period to the full punishment. I would have liked to see men discuss this on a wider basis, as I mentioned at the outset. The results of this fine comparative study that I quoted after the Ólöf Lafu Laufey of Steingrímsdóttir's daughter are that community service has not increased criminal activity, if anything has dropped it. It is also a far less expensive option for society and better for wrongdoers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u172	Mr. President. I'm going to briefly discuss this bill to change the law on the full penalties and discuss it a little from my work experience in this field as a sheriff, since I've been involved in this case very often and watched how this has happened. First of all, the change in law is temporary, taking into account that it is temporary to 2024. It's been three years, so it's not like it's being completely altered. Actually, it's been making a lot of space, i.e. those who receive judgments that are under some control - in this bill, it is 24 months in prison where the total punishment is 24 months, non-worn, or probationary - is now possible to get the full benefit of their sentence through community service. In the past, these criteria were considerably lower, 12 months old, and months ago they were three months old. So, that's what they're saying. Is that good or not good? Is this evidence that the prison system does not carry out its task? Is it, then, an eviction? I mention that prisons here have been committed many, this small prison, and especially when the Holy Service was taken advantage of. At that time, many small and inadequate prisons may not have been so extensive. This, of course, is affected by the operation last year of putting down prisons in Akureyri. It's all a factor. Then I'd like to introduce a little bit of the demands of prison. These demands have become high, and they may be normal. Of course, we want to do what is right with prisoners, so there is no room for debate. But foreign prisoners I've heard of and have lived in Icelandic prisons have spoken of this as an extremely luxury relative to what they know from their own country. It may only be considered that the cost of the prison system has become enormous and can we ask ourselves, " Is this really the case with the prison system? ' Still, the percentage of prisoners in the community is very low in Iceland, if I remember the number correctly, so we should be able to care for this language class well. We're supposed to be able to take good care of him. When, as we have grown in the report, judgment is growing, it has an enormous negative effect, a very negative effect, Mr. President, and not just on the tolerability of the court that, of course, commends the accident and is pleased to be released from punishment. But he's more likely not to learn from this. So this special warning effect, often spoken of, is less likely to occur even if there are exceptions. This general warning effect is calm because it encourages, or does not type, those who look at it and see that a person escapes, to continue in his criminal course. It is, therefore, not a good thing to leave a sentence behind. I realize that there's a problem that is being solved and that I can get down the number of probations waiting to complete their sentence and that the target is being transferred to 24 months. I also ask, as noted earlier, what are these judgments? It speaks of public interest and non-political public interest, and of evaluating the judgments that meet these criteria. Yes, it has to be done. Of course, as a community, we do not want to watch that e.g. Criminals who commit gross violence where punishment may be within these limits, 24 months of prison, begin painting fences in the green areas of the capital in community service. I trust that this expression of public interest will provide for them. They may rarely be punished for these 24 months, but of course they need to be aware that such things do not happen. I was talking about the warning effect of punishment earlier. We must always bear in mind that when we discuss this party, we expect people in our community to view the law of law to prevent it from being tempted to commit crime. It is this general warning effect and then this special warning effect when punishing the offender. If there's a lot of follow-up, Mr. President, and I've got stories about this and an example of this, then people continue to break themselves. There was one person who was a long time ago who, as at times, was driving all the time under the influence of alcohol. He got into a drive-by and never listened. He's got court decisions, he's just hit his fingers, he's fined, he's taken out the driver's rights, but he's just moving on. It's a story that everyone knows who's worked in this system, that they don't want to be heard. I think that in terms of fractures like drunk driving, there are a lot of times and a lot of shocks before the person gets to face the prison bars themselves. This may be an increase in the amount of exchange that the person can commit to a similar offense. This man told me that he had driven repeatedly, had received many judgments, and had ignored all of this. The guilt didn't matter. It didn't matter. Then he finally got a prison sentence, but he was probationary, so he didn't go in. He repeated the move, and finally he received 30 days of imprisonment. He may not have believed that he was going to be inserted, but he did. He specifically told me that at first he had woke up to a bad dream. He would never have learned this unless he had really had to see the terrible seriousness of being in prison for this. When he woke up to that evil dream, he began to think. At this point, I think that the person has stopped drinking alcohol and has not been guilty, at least not in this area. So, in some cases, Mr. President, we cannot be too much of a pension. Some people just don't learn sooner. Just at the end of the day, there are two things I was going to talk about before I finished. This is the case with judgments that are beginning to dawn and judgments that are delayed, i.e. abduction that may last for years. There are many cases of men being called into prisons, perhaps three or four years after the fall of judgment or even later. A judgment may not fail for a year or two, so it may take five or seven years before men finally begin to serve their punishment. Then their lives are changed, they have long since stopped drinking or drugs they may have used to do and have family and children. This group suffers greatly when punishment falls so hard. That's why I think this bill is good. Still, we need to consider funding the prison system so that it can do its job. I'm not against the bill at all, I think it's a good thing, but I'm going to finish one more thing. - Now I can't find it, but it's for meditation in a paper on who's going to make a decision about community service. I'm pretty impressed with the idea that it would be not a administrative decision and that it would be determined, not by a prison agency, but by courts. I have long been impressed with that idea, and I agree with words in a paper that I do not find now, that should be taken into consideration carefully whether a judge is in a position to decide whether the sentence of the offender or if it is possible to end it in any way other than by penalties, i.e. community service or electronic supervision or anything like that. I like that idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u173	President. I'm on a universal and educational committee where this proposal has been proposed. It is understandable to me, but at the same time it is a heavy judgment of the inadequacy of the government of this class, it must be said at the moment. Today, doomed men are waiting a long time for the execution of judgment. According to the review and discussion of this matter, the mean waiting period for a fatal outcome is now considered to be seven months and in some cases longer. We see, as discussed on this subject and in our discussions here in the Senate Hall, that there is an issue that is growing old. What does it mean to be judged? This means that there is so long since a judgment date is passed until the execution of the sentence is announced that the sentence has passed, and the result is that man does not have to serve out the sentence. This suggests that it may be possible to serve up to two years of heavy prison sentences in community service. True, this is only a warrant, but this leads to a judgment against a serious offense, and no judgment is specifically excluded in this suggestion. In this regard, the Minister of Justice is responding to court reviews in prison by offering a bill to expand their community service, which will take them up to two years of heavy judgments. A bill on the bill explains why the route, of course, is gone, and it is designed to shorten the list of messages in prison that has increased in the last few years that waiting time for an execution has been very serious. Perhaps in some context, it would be a smiling thought that Iceland has waiting classes to go to prison if the interests behind them were not so serious. Of course, a waiting list in prison is a totally absurd situation, especially when it is counted for that long period of time. The highest reaction. Thus, a minister of justice to these problems is normal and understandable, but they are not just attacking the root of the problem but were being cut off from a full - time preaching list in prison. Because it has been noted in the past that it is the source of this case, it is important that there is no discussion of this matter of criminality or judicial action on a broader basis that has the effect of wide exposure to the authority of a prison agency in that subject. According to this, my firm opinion is that community service as a means of governing prison policy and criminal punitiveism is very much of the good. In fact, I believe that judges should have the authority to judge men in community service. However, that is not what is being suggested here that I would have considered normal steps in general, especially in this position, to step. Rather, this proposal is now being proposed to take up to two years of heavy decisions in community service without the advice of the lawgiver taking any steps in the material to frame the nature of the fractions to which to fit. I find it normal for the lawgiver to bring in something rather than the duration of the sentence. I think that this is where we bring too much information to prison, despite my full confidence in that institution, because that is, in spite of all the courts in the country that represent the court. It is a well - known viewpoint and ideologies of prison sentences that for judgment to have the desired effect, on the other hand, for the rest of the community, the defendant and the judge must be able to judge himself as soon as possible. This is a matter of community importance but also of great personal significance and of the defendant's human rights, that he is allowed to serve as soon as possible. If it takes a very long time, it can easily happen that the defendant's life is in an entirely different and better place when, in time, it is time to punish and, in some cases, even work against his original goal, because the wait, of course, includes additional punishment. People's lives are, as I think everyone sees and understands when they stop and think about it, in a complete waiting position while the sentence is being suspended. As noted above, the situation today is that judges in some cases wait for months to be judged, and it has been observed that at the end of 2020, 638 men waited for the execution of a sentence, 638 people in small Iceland. This prison situation is very close to another problem, which is a legal period within the legal system. The discussion of that problem is not new. Sadly, the situation in my mind is evidence that there seems simply not to be a priority on the government program. I'm sorry that there is no effort on this case or on the part of the government or in the numbers we take care of the situation within the legal system to provide an overall vision and ideologies to deal with this problem. During the last financial discussion, I had a conversation with the highest level. Minister of Justice on this subject and on the subject over and over in the discussion now on the financial agenda. I can't see that I can see any fundamental changes that will take place progressively in this problem, and that's a lot of concern. While this is certainly a temporary operation, it is because the government has no control over prison matters. Until now, the warrant has been that they may serve as long as 12 months in prisons with community services. I'm not saying there should be more than 12 months in that relationship, but now this goal is to be brought up to 24 months so that you can serve up to two years in prisons with community services, and I'd like to mention the average weight of judicial decisions in serious criminal affairs in Iceland. Of course, judging in Iceland, as in all North countries, is known to be on the lower edge of the line. A large proportion of convicted punishments will fall under this warrant for two years without the lawgiver in any way attempting to have an opinion or to frame the fractions below. There is no discussion of the nature or severity of sins. Then I'd like to mention again what I just came up with, the average weight of Justice in the Icelandic legal system, and the subject of one of the most serious offenses under legal law, which is rape. The sentence for rape in Iceland ranges from two to three years in prison. For violations against 2 mg. 194. gr. a general penalties of a particular kind of rape, spoken of as a disintegration, are common, and I would like to say the customary punishment of two years in prison. According to this standard, the lawgiver is opening up a warrant that such a sentence is fully served by community service. I'd like to reiterate that I have full confidence in a prison agency, and I'd say that inside that house, there's some standard for which offenses fall below. But what is the lawgiver's recommendation when there is no limit? What's the message? Who's the criminal bitch? What's the message for the community and for violations? This is a temporary operation. I realize it's temporary. But this is because there is a situation that is being dealt with, not because humans necessarily have the ideologies behind it. The question is, will the lawgiver really want to open up that one can, for example? a two - year sentence for rape in community service, and there is no discussion on this on the part of the legislatator whether there is any reason to frame it in some way that violence or sexual abuse are excluded in these areas. Here I will allow myself to mention the interaction of courts and prison institutions, whether it is not normal, and the answer to that is, of course, that courts will exercise this power, because with this high level of criminal justice they are putting in a very high percentage of convicted punishments into this framework of the prison agency. If that's not going to happen, I'll ask why it's not a clear exception. This is thoughtless and thoughtless, I'd like to say, and things that would have had to come up with some overall trend in mind for a longer time. As I mentioned earlier, I have earlier come up to mention that this is a very sad theme when we learn the consequences of government criminal policies. We have been discussing in this council hall that sex offenders are regularly reduced because of a time of verbal intervention within the system. It is often stated in court cases that the prosecution could not give an explanation of delay. The answer, however, is no more complex than that the system has not escaped. It is, of course, a matter of personal interest to discuss whether in some cases the right of the land is possible to go beyond the times when the Supreme Court had most of these cases in the treatment of an appeal phase. Whatever the case, these are judgments today. As a result, decisions for serious fractures are less serious than would have been, and this has been happening despite the prevalence of sexual abuses in the system itself and despite the fact that much good has happened and very positive work has been done on the system itself to deal with that situation. In recent years the number of police sex crimes charges has increased. Of course, this should be a concern, and it is of course a major concern that such offenses are common in Icelandic society. However, the fact that throughout history there has been concern over how few sexual crimes have been reported to the police, and rising numbers of police charges are in this context positive. I'd like to say that there's also a mirror on the fact that the system has confidence, that there is a search for violations. The results I mentioned, that many good things have happened in the system in recent years, are results that have been achieved despite increasing the number of languages. Of course, it is difficult and painful for the victims and their victims to have to wait very long to hear the answers about the outcome of a case, which is the nature of the case, according to the circumstances of a major trauma in their lives, and then they get answers when judgment falls, if a judgment falls in their case, or if they experience a mild punishment due to failure. In this context, I would like to again mention the experiences of the failure of our lives that the legislator now is going to be a waiting list of Icelandic prisons, moving the standard we use for community service, so that it means two years of imprisonment without leaving and not discussing in any way the offenses underneath and which offenses are not under. Did we naturally think that a defendant who has received a two - year sentence for some kind of sexual abuse of a child would be a result of a social service? In this context of the waiting lists, I also mention, and there is a factor that cannot be excluded, experience, and right defendants, since uncertainty is a subject of investigation, and on the other hand, judgment is also difficult. In this position the government is responsible and should respond in behalf of the community's interests. My firm stand here is that community service is in my mind and that, according to my studies, it has a positive effect on those who go through it. Social services have positive results that the return rate of prisoners declines according to the research we have to support. But even though I believe that judges should be authorized to judge men in this capacity, i.e. that we should make it increasingly difficult for me to think that this is a goal for two years without the suggestion that the lawgiver would consider any exact judgment that might be involved. As I say, this proposal is understandable in the face of the extreme situation in this area, but the reaction to the problems with temporary resources, without long - term overall policy, to address the problems as it really is, is a dangerous way. This is an evil criminal bitch, and it's because it's a police detective, that's a charge, that's a court of law, and that's a prison agency that's passing out the court's sentence. It is not that a prison facility or an institution after the courts has all the bearing on what the judgment looks like. Finally, over three years ago, I would like to mention that the projection of the overall policy of the prison system was proposed by the government. It's been approved, but it seems to me that it hasn't been done much to her since, in terms of action. I call upon that issue to be accepted now without having it framed in any way how to comply with it, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, to look for an extended period of time in that subject, and to view this matter as a whole based on the common interests of those who commit offenses, out of the interests of those who serve in prisons for a longer period of time, that there is some vision, that it is a form of some ideologies behind them. Although this is a way to meet a particular challenge and is understandable and, in many respects, it is very sobering and sobering to see how far it is taken and how much surrender is meant by the lawgiver's not even trying to figure out what to do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u174	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on this topic on the subject of the National Church. The bill is the continuation of other matters that have been treated during the council and includes increasing segregation of State and Church. The bill has been discussed considerably in the field. General and Education Committee. A group of visitors appeared before them, and quite a few reports came along as traced to the committee. A number of factors that the greater part considered to be a special reason to enter its members. Among other things, it is thought about the values of the administrative law and that according to the bill, the church's independence is expected to be increased and that the Church's employees are no longer the employees of the State, and other factors to increase separation. On the basis of their views, it is also assumed that such administrative laws and practices do not automatically apply to the Church and its employees in the same way as they once did. However, it should be noted that even if there is not a law in the country, more of the committee will agree that it is normal for the church to adopt the same rules. Because of its position, its size and importance in the community, the church is actually encouraged to set its rules at the church council, which take into account the views of legal procedures and the rights of employees and the normalities. In the work of the Committee, comments were made from Iceland's National Registry on several technical factors attributed to a committee study. I don't think it's necessary to review it further, but I just want to know that after a discussion and discussion on the Committee, the majority concluded that there would be no basis for a change in the bill in this regard. It would be a project that would have to be fixed, but the sources that would have been sufficient to handle the issues involved and to insist that the church itself be the place to define the boundaries of parishes. Of course, it would have to be paid to allow information on that basis to be referred to the national and other authorities as needed, but there are, of course, boundaries relevant to the application fees. We make small adjustments in our members' proposals, make word changes to explain in particular one factor affecting the rights of employees hired in the sense of the staff law or older law in this field. There was a view in the commission that changes in wording in this respect could result in misunderstandings and could possibly lead to individual employees who had been hired in the sense of older law not to use the legal situation that has been previously assumed. However, a majority of the committee wanted to make a decision so that it was not. We suggest that there be a slight change, but it is for explanations and, of course, to make sure that the rights of the employees involved are not to be overlooked. I'm not going, top dog. Mr. President, to discuss this in my speech, but under the opinion given here by a section of the literature, as well as by the chairman of the committee, Páll Magnússon, who was also the chairman of the case during the discussion of the committee, and why. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gurnar's Gunnlaugsdóttir, Árnadóttir Enrannadnadótttir, Þólmur Sæmundsson, and Þorbjörg Signur Guenllóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, who wants to come on the 10th floor only. The bill about the Bishop's office. In fact, the bill says the diocese, and I will step further toward the importance of it being the Bishop's office. In the 10th. says, with permission of the president: One diocese is U.S. There's a Bishop's office according to the Council's regulations, cr. 1.mg. Section 8. The bishop of Iceland will take over the administration of the National Church, as the council further recommends. The Bishop of Iceland watches the Church's unity and has the way of Christianity, church doctrine, and services. Mr. President. I recommend here for an adjustment proposal and it reads so that 2. mgr. 10th par. As stated: The Bishop of Iceland is the highest office of the National Church and will take over its administration as the synod further recommends. The change is to add to the words of the highest office of the State Church. By changing the law on government officials of 2019, the church's section was taken from the law. Then it was decided that the church's officials would have neither duties nor rights as public employees of the State. In fact, they had been specified in the law on some sort of an exception from the fact that the divorce rate between state and church became a national law since 1997. With a corresponding change in national law in 2019 C.E., office was removed from the law, but a job was replaced. In this way the bishop of Iceland no longer held office but did a job, and the bishop did not get a commission to be part of the government law. The Bishop of Iceland has been in office since Ísleifur Gissurarson was at the General Bishop of Iceland and then dedicated to Bremen 1056. Reasonably, when the bishop of Iceland, as it is of course, is removed from the government law on government officials against him or her again, as was the highest office of the National Church, having such obligations toward the nation and all its governments. It may be assumed that members of the Synod and other government of the National Church were not permitted to use the term because of the government's law on government officials, i.e. that the reason to mention the office of the bishop and priesthood was merely that they were citizens of the law, as shown by the law of government officials. This can be, for example. see in the 2019 C.E. the changing of the law of the State Church. Now the law says: (a) What is the legal requirement for priestly service? (b) What is the nature of the Greek word translated "successary "? (b) How does the Greek word translated "success " refer to the Greek word for" priest "? But for the change, the law said: He's going to the Bishop's office... So we see that this has been turned into a diocese service, which was formerly a bishop's office. I'm going on: (a) What is the legal requirement for priestly service? (b) What is the nature of the Greek word translated "successary "? (b) How does the Greek word translated "success " refer to the Greek word for" priest "? Furthermore, the Bishop's office was presented in Article 15. Their song on the conduct of the bishop of Iceland: In the early bishops of Iceland, he pronounces the dedicated bishop who is older than the divinity in order to serve his office temporarily. - And there comes the word "office" again. The same thing applies to Iceland's bishop being incompetent to the treatment of a single legal case. And the law was, saying, Since the bishop of Iceland now falls from or leaves office, the late bishop of Iceland will be instructed by the late bishop of his office. This is to make sure that the office of the bishop of Iceland was founded by the General. Although many have changed since then and are willing to be significantly diminished between Church and State, and the percentage of people of the nation's population of total population has been reduced, the National Church has been identified in the Republic's constitution. A general council will have to ensure the national and other religious functions of the land on the basis of universal religious rights. The Bishop's office is Iceland's oldest official office that has remained since its first approval in the General Assembly that it was the national office. Although the Roman Catholic Church's rules and confirmation of bishop's choice came from the pope of Rome, bishops were not merely sent and appointed by the pope as usual but at the General Assembly, at least. down to the 14th century. The conversion of bishops in the 16th century and the introduction of the monarchy in the 17th century gave rise to the state's ruling authority in the affairs of the church, as in all the other affairs of the State, to which bishops in Iceland held in most branches their civilian duties, and to the congregations they also enjoyed high freedoms to a king up to the 18th century. With the Constitution of 1874, when freedom of worship was introduced and the Evangelical U.S. Church was made a national church in Iceland, a change in the bishop's office was made that the bishop became an official of the nation, not of the king, and thus returned to his original position. This position remained unchanged at the establishment of the 1944 Republic. On page 18. 14 In our report with the bill we will discuss on 3. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Priests and deacons who care for the dedicated service work on the basis of dedication and dedication and who serve as ministers of the church for office. They make bishops a vow to carry out their ministry on the basis of church confessions and orders. On this basis, the dedicated slave is given responsibility for fundamental elements in the service of the National Church, and he is authorized to do so. The dedication of the bishop is the key to performing church service. Priests who perform regular priestly duties in the National Church submit to the officiating of Iceland's bishop. More than that, priests who have paid jobs in non - state churches, such as in clinics and nursing homes, submit themselves to the bishop's direction. Mr. President. Just a little bit closer on 1 0th. The bill: It may be said that the work of Iceland's bishops falls in the same way under the church's internal work and the function of a dedicated bishop, who is at the head of an Icelandic bishop for the National Church, seems to be the right thing to specify his work in law, as is done for all other directors in the law on written religions and principles of living. Two. it is decreed that the bishop of Iceland submits to the administration of the National Church, as the synod further recommends. A bishop in his work is aiding the implementation of the government of the National Church, outside the council, including Directors of church activity, church centers, parish committees, church park governments, church park councils, and various funds. The bishop of Iceland is the leading head of the nation's largest religion and is a complex project of bishops. In the current law, there are special laws on the duties and position of the bishop, including the special position of the bishop of the church government. In accordance with the main policy of the bill, stressing that the church's order is to be formed from a council instead of a legislature, it will be a synod's job to promote the office and fores of the bishop of Iceland. 3 mg. it is specified that one of the role of Iceland's bishops is to guard the Church's unity, which is now in addition to the roles specified in the current law, i.e. Having the form of Christianity, the doctrine of the church, and its service in the land. The unity of the church refers to the bishop's ability to preach the doctrine and the message of the good news. Its internal issues are discussed in the unity of the Church. The 1890 Church Court of Jón's son Pétursson is well aware of the bishop's office and its connection with legislation and with the Council. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. on page 24. 29◯30, with president's permission: ▪ Before the land came under the king, the body had perfect legal authority in all affairs on land, both secular and spiritual. The bishops were church presidents, and therefore were considered to be the head of the country of all spiritual affairs, but the legal authority in these matters was with the general assembly [...], but the bishops could not also give any laws, without which they were approved by the General Assembly, and this arrangement continued until the Reformation, and did not change that the land was subject to the king, for he had no authority over the Church, no legal authority in its affairs; only he could defend the people for illegal practices of the clergy. - So to speak. And it came to pass, when the land was come under the king, and the president, and the head of the land, in all the worldly rule, in their own way, and the bishops were in the spiritual affairs of it. Also, on page 19. 46 of John's son Peter's Church Court: ▪ To dedicate himself to a spiritual office is also in the Bishop's order, but when there is no juncture, the governor [...] must appoint some priest to do the Bishop's office until a new bishop receives it. Again, on page 19. Regarding the bishop 165: The bishop is the leading spiritual official, and I reiterate a official - ◯ in the country. This shows that the law on government employees had no effect on the history and use of the term office. Furthermore, it is obvious that the term cannot be confined to government officials simply because members of various organizations have their own office unspoken and without causing any confusion. Like the culture of every community, history and tradition, Mr. President are precious possessions. The concept of a church office has a special meaning based on its theology. Generally speaking, the term in church context is primarily related to service, responsibility, oversight, and leadership, as is the case in other places where it occurs, and to that extent is unrelated to the church. On the other hand, a job is primarily the implementation of tasks that are entrusted to the staff. Hence, it can be concluded that a fundamental change should take place in the role of the Church's bishop by canceling the term of the bishop's office and converting it into the Bishop's job. It may be estimated that the Bishop's responsibility for spiritual leadership in the church and the duties of the bishop to the doctrine and customs no longer had the strength the Bishop has had in the Church, from the early church, and in the context of Iceland for over a thousand years. This emphasis is highlighted in the report with the bill on page 10. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ In line with the main policy of the bill, which emphasizes that the church's order is to be initiated by a synod instead of a legislator, it will be the Council's task to promote the position and forework of Iceland's bishops. In the church context, Mr. President, the term is not just a legal term as it is in the laws for public employees but theological and church. There is a sharing within the international churches of which the Church is a part. Thus, as with any member of the community, the church will still walk out of its historical office. According to this, Mr. President, here, as I said at the outset, is proposed to make the changes in their history with the nation and on the responsibility of the Generals since the priesthood will be legally guaranteed by the Bishop, bishop of the National Church.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u176	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to legalize a change in passenger transport law and transport by the country, No. 25/2017. This is a bill of temporary guest transport and neglect. The Committee is of the Environment and Transport Committee and is available at Council Report 1546 and no. 690. The committee received reviews from the Union of the Icelandic tenet driver, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Group of Travel Services, the Street bus bus. and the businessman on the West. The committee brought in visitors who followed these comments, as well as visitors from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. In fact, two-way changes in passenger transport law are made, No. 25/2017. On the one hand, the definition of temporary passenger transport is as a validated transport company in the European Economic Areas, which operates on the basis of Community spending, and, on the other, the provision for the monitoring of road fares in public transport to open and support more efficient solutions to the payment of fares with the aim of promoting services to users. The committee first discussed a total of public transport laws, but several comments showed that it was important to set a total law on public transport where the duties and rights of both transferred and passengers were well secured. The reviews suggested that there would have been some time to go to work and set up a team for this purpose, but this work has not been performed. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the reviews and believes that in the development of public transport over the next few years it is desirable that special laws be developed on those taking into account users, immigrants, social roles of public transport and environmental policies. Therefore, direct the Commission to the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs to prepare for the shape of such legislation, including ordering a team to recommend a change in the legal environment. Then I'm going to review the Commission's new proposal, first about a change in the concept of a fare pressure. The committee suggests that instead of neglect, the word "objects of neglect " will be used as a fare load. The committee was told that neglect of work may not be a good word. This would be unnecessaryly similar to the word used over repairs that would not be available to their vehicles at the appointed time. On the other hand, the cost of public transportation by companies is not clear, so the fare of public transport cannot be demonstrated in the pay of fares when looking for it. It is suggested that the word "character " be put on top of that price. At that time, the term "Service Worker " was discussed. The bill points out that there is not necessarily an employee in a direct recruitment relationship with an artist who supervises the collection of fares or if fare costs were paid. For example, it has been suggested that these may be personnel of a security company that is being used by the artist to review the confirmation of the fare and ID. Therefore, rather than referring to an agent, the committee suggests that a worker be referred to. In the opinion of the committee it is stated that an agent's agent does not have police authority, and the bill has no change in such sources. It installs the committee because of an expression in a report that would indicate something else, so it is clear. Then a change in personal protection will eventually be considered. In order to eliminate any doubt as to the identity processing of artists'sources and to collect the fare burden, the Committee suggests that a new paragraph is added to 6. where it is stated that a messenger is permitted to process personal information through pressures and collect a fare burden, according to the article, that the required laws on identity protection and processing of personal information and rules set on their basis. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made. Under the heading, the writer of this committee, Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee, Ari Trausti Guðjón, Gólänsson, Vilhjálmur Gauti Hjaltason, Kolbeint Óttarsson Proppé, and Jón Árnason. 18th par. Standards for the Synod's fixed committees, where they were absent from the case. At that time, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was also absent from the case. Finally, I would like to thank you for the cooperation of the Committee in the process of this case and suggest that it be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u177	Mr. President. This view of loyalty and pollution laws, which we have usually called the menstrual economy, is about many aspects of the economy. This is a report from a greater part of the environment and transport committee and is also here for the continuation committee, which I will explain. We received 36 visitors and 22 envelopes in this case, and the subject of the bill is actually suggested here on the land four EU directives. I'm not going to read them all up. It's easy to study them in the committee's opinion. In addition, changes in the manufacturer's responsibility for battery and battery and return costs to vehicles are suggested. The changes provide conditions for the production of a cycle economy in Icelandic legislation to promote improved recycling and recycling of waste and to reduce the production of waste. Regarding the general chapter, I'm going to read from the Committee's opinion: Sustainableity has long been accepted as a means of resource consumption. This is a characteristic of sectoral policy in the sector and in the economy, e.g. In tourism, fishing roads, agriculture, and climate. As a result of sustainable development, resource use can lead to an end to many of the earth's resources unrenewable. This calls for recycling of the materials produced after the use of products from the raw materials of such resources. The same applies to products derived from renewable resources, as this reduces the pressures on many of the earth's ecosystems and shows better respect for resource endurance. The basic concept of cycle economy takes into account these factors in resource spending. According to the economic policies of this economy, it is urgent that all the wastes of industry and private consumption, the most practical of them, and the most associated with it as raw but to the extent that a part of it is unrecyclable. The majority count a major step toward the global waste system in this country that supports the implementation of the circuit economy. The collection and recycling of fishing instruments, hay-plastics, and bed - consuming plastic containers and food dressings include important and extensive projects to be added to the government's plastic management programme. The majority of the waste materials are strongly encouraged to cover the collection and transport costs at the same time. In addition, it is important to review the financial environment of enterprises which are involved in recycling plastic materials and which, if necessary, are in line. This was the general chapter on the subject of this bill, followed by a chapter on slaughterhouse waste and processing stations. The more part shows that biohazard waste is defined in a way that the bill does not fit in with slaughterhouse waste and will continue to be allowed to waste certain wastes from slaughterhouses. I would like to add from my own heart that it is, of course, the purpose of this indication more to explain that it is allowed to extract slaughterhouse waste, but it is certainly desirable that it is also recycled to the extent possible. So here is the section on a special collection and dissociation of waste. It shows that the majority of the remaining waste barrels must continue to be allowed to have the mixed waste barrel within the land and does not consider the need to collect such waste within the weights where it is permitted to keep these containers within weights. The majority of waste products that should receive uniform significance are not allotted in the directive and emphasise the setting of a uniform marking as most waste products in the Regulation. As to the management of Exploitation Fund, the first tore up how it is formed and the greater part points to the development of the projection fee based on the manufacturer's responsibility, i.e. The obligation of producers and immigrants to ensure the provision of the post-efficiency laws included in terms of costs. The manufacturer's responsibility is not in the same way with rural, consumer, or other sources and considers that the majority of the items are right, therefore, to maintain the government's orders unchanged. The majority, however, aims at the management of the Greenout Fund to look for ways to get along well with consumer representatives and environmental organisations. It is important that these persons can follow up their views, e.g. at regular meeting sessions with the management of the fund and the following events by economists and specialists on the stage. The majority also believe that it is important that, at the same time, a large agreement will be implemented to ensure that these representatives of the hearing are in charge and direct it to the management of the fund and the Ministry to investigate the possibility of this. In that case, change the proposals for more parts. There are seven main factors to consider, first of all, the environmental benefits aims here. I'm going to read from the commission: Twenty-seventh. The bill is presented with changes to the target set of Article 1. Law onfinancing, No. 162/2002. The law says the purpose of the law is included. developing a system of natural economy with products and services to promote sustainable resource efficiency, to reduce waste production and to increase its recycling. The law also aims to create economic conditions for recycling and recycling and other wastes in order to reduce the amount of waste that falls to its final disposal and ensure appropriate disposal of wastes. The majority believe that it is specifically stated in the purpose of the law that the creation of economic conditions for recycling and recycling of waste and other waste recovery should take into account environmental benefits, e.g. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. It also shows that in evaluating environmental benefits, it is important to use the established methodology of ecology analysis or other comparable methodology. Thus, there will be not only economic practicality but also environmental benefits. The majority of them believe that it is important to set up a clear policy set to be taken into account as soon as it is working on the implementation of other regulations of the bill. Sets more parts to change the content. In this regard, the collection for waste management is considered and proposed as a change. In order to meet the views of possible high-priority costs, a greater proportion of jobs are being added to the law to allow rural society to collect up to 50% of the total cost of the municipal population for two years, i.e. to January 1, 2025. In this way, rural society has more time to adapt to changing regulations of collects. It was noted that the provision was clear that the actual cost of waste could be shifted between waste groups in order to promote a system of recycling, and it was important that the law was clear to the point that rural communities had the authority to collect higher expenses for certain waste groups in order to contribute to the economy. This is not allowed to increase the rate beyond the total cost but is simply a modified collection. Similarly, it would be important to have the same authority in rural communities. The majority agree with the above views and suggest a change of 16. The bill of matter. It also discusses plastic fishing instruments and used wording, i.e. differences between the word "pools" and the word "pools." The reason for this difference is that fishing instruments are always made of materials other than plastics, so the commission seems appropriate to use the term plastic - containing fishing instruments. This suggests that the majority contributes to a change in several aspects of the bill in order to make clear, and that these apply to plastic - based fishing instruments while also extending them to fishing instruments made up of some materials, such as plastic, metal, and rubber. Then there is a section on the induction of the manufacturer's responsibilities and the extraction fee. The majority of them consider it important that the cost of extending the manufacturer's responsibilities does not land in rural areas. So much of the share is suggested at 29. The bill is added to the letter of that material. It was noted that the manufacturer's responsibility is found in three layers, the laws on loyalty and pollution, the handling of wastes, and the operating laws on extraction costs. So it may be difficult to discern the scope of the manufacturer's responsibility. The majority agree with this and direct it to the Ministry to see if there is any basis for reviewing the above law columns on the basis of simplicity and clarity. In a section on the long - term pay of a vehicle, I'm just going to go to the conclusion that the Committee suggests paying for available vehicles to receive re-exploitation or disposal from 20,000 k. of 30,000 k. This will be a chapter that deals with the role of Exploitation Fund and economic motivation. It says that the greater part of it is important to support the development of the economy in Iceland and not to look merely for financial prosperity. So puts some more part into that change of the c-dimer 37. g. refer to environmental benefits. Thus, economic incentives should provide an efficient waste waste management system, which is designed for a product that falls under the laws on environmental benefits and lay the basis for setting priorities for waste management, erosion. 7. waste management procedures and 1st pars. Act of processing fees. Then there is a section on the recycling of plastics and related changes. The majority of the rights to the practical and environmental rationale recommend that as much plastic is created in the country be recycled here and as the least part removed from the country. It must be ensured that innovation can be further supported in this area of recycling, even assist companies in the recycling of plastics, and increase specificity as well as competition in that sector. The majority welcomes the sources of restitution of wastes. The majority suggest that the Environment and Resource Ministry contributes to an effort aimed at implementing both domestic plastic recycling and its implementation in terms of the most suitable cycle economy. It needs to be examined and determined to the extent and extent of the recycling program will be separated from the Work Fund's activities. This applies to recycling more substances, e.g. glass and possibly metals such as aluminum. With reference to the above views, the importance of the recycling of most plastics in Iceland suggests that the majority of the EU will contribute to a change in recycling law, no. 162/2002, to add 2 mg to the new case. Section 15. to ensure that adequate data are readily available prior to payment. As a result, the Eionet Fund needs to be informed about the final provision of plastic waste, where the plastic will be recycled, and what the environmental impact of the provisional pathway is. The lack of this information cannot be determined by the expense of wastes. In view of the interests involved and the connection between the rules and the targets, the greater part contributes to the regulations and other changes in 2 mg. Section 15. The law will take effect immediately. There is a very short list of terms associated with the best available technology or so-called BAT technology. This is only a correction of wording, and I'm not going to list it here. As above, the bill includes the legalization of the regulations of four European Parliament and Council. As shown in a report with the bill, the directives have not been recorded in the EEA Convention but are being prepared for a decision there at the EEA/EFTA level. Hence, the bill does not basically involve the implementation of directives that Iceland is obliged to record to the national rights following the decision of the joint EEA committee and thus contributes to the implementation of regulations at 26th and 39. The bill will be removed. Nevertheless, the regulations of the regulations are legalized by the bill, which is why Iceland has met its national commitments in terms of which it will be adopted in the EEA Convention. The majority also focus on the Ministry to monitor the progress of the projects in that field and to respond if necessary, such as delaying the implementation of the law, now January 1, 2020, to ensure that in the recording of the products in the EEA, there will not be an expansive advantage in Icelandic companies, rural areas and consumers until the preparation of the Regulation is undertaken. This suggests more than a few technological changes that are not meant to have material influence. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Jón Gunnarsson was absent from the case but is considered to be in accordance with 2 mg. Twenty-nine. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191. The Guðjón of Brjánsson Verjánsson and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson sign down as a warning that they intend to make an account of in speaking. This date is June 7, 2021. Councilman Trausti Trani Guðmundsson, Gen. S. Brjánsson, in advance, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, in advance, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason. As a result, Mr. President, I have made this committee an article as best of my ability and have finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for making such clear and clearly aware of this excellent bill and the Committee for Environment and Transport. There's some important stuff here. The bill also includes the legalization of four European Parliament and Council plans. Clearly, there is a great deal of solidarity and understanding in the importance of this bill. However, there is a priority that I allow to put on the bill and indistinguishable points of attitude toward rural society, and I will try to account in short terms. The changes and the costs of this effort, at least, will not be clearly seen, in an acceptable way. less time, mostly for rural communities, but the law is expected to take effect at the beginning of 1923. I said, "Aggress." Of course, it's not a struggle, it's a vision, it's a huge project that we're dealing with all as one, every human child. It will not be reversed, it is a quest that will continue into the future, and for that, we need to prepare ourselves with increased enlightenment, education, presentation, and awareness of the environment. It is recognized that waste management in many of the rural areas, urban, rural, rural, rural, and private areas, where the cost is considerable and more careful in waste management, will further increase the costs and will call for more infrastructure, their management and facilities, in which rural areas fall, and hence on the population. Interim regulations that are proposed to be legalized certainly do not work to remedy this situation on their own. It'll be a lot better to make the baloney tighter. The priorities are that the changes the bill offers will be made in a thorough and transparent way in terms of the increase in rural spending due to the Party. The costs for the reported changes will have to be met in a defined way. My priorities depend primarily on the fact that our rural communities are being enabled to take a good part in the great reforms we need to perform, this great and large improvement project. Mr. President. The extraction fund plays an important role in waste management. We call that the fund will use economic incentives to establish an efficient system for waste disposal. The commission discussed this aspect, how this was going on, and how the need also was looked at as well as at the cost of ecosystems and environmental impacts at the introduction of these so - called economic motivations. Even if transporting waste from land to recycling may be more economical, it is not always environmentally practical, as well as mismanagement of the extracurricular waste. It is also emphasized in the committee's opinion that regardless of the destiny of waste, it is encouraged to ensure that environmental wastes are being eliminated. It is also encouraged in the Committee to use the environment for recycling and to strengthen with all means of structure and to promote any incentive that can speed up the recovery of the economy into full swing in Iceland. Mr. President. This is irony in this regard, though, if Environmental interest is merely focused on economic incentives, not on the environmental, but on the purpose of Exploitation Fund is, of course, to support the growth of recycling and environmental awareness. Of course, looking with responsibility in these areas is a requirement for us. A close - knit example of this is a major export of hay - rolls, even in certain territories, while we have an impressive innovation company in Who making, which is probably unique on a global level, where we use a more upbuilding project to use the earth. That company is working on a highly destabilized resource, where we are sliding down system-based obstacles to transport the plastic back to its nest. What about multi-talked support for innovation in the country? And then there are some questions. New birth is the password in today's society. The extraction fund has large sums of money available for its work. We agree on the major environmental objectives. Nevertheless, from abroad and from cities we send hundreds of tons of garbage and plastics a year. Current systems are unable to restore it to recycling within a country that is possible. Mr. President. The words and actions, declarations of goals and implementation, and so I use a wide range of phrases: It doesn't compare sound and image. The proposals of the United States in this regard are clear and serve all the aims of increasing jobs, increasing green values, improving the health and safety of the people in the country, and increasing the awareness of the environment. This is a key to our fine credit for the way from a professional crisis to a green future, which I encourage all members of the council and as most of the people of the country to read. Mr. President. In fact, the Commission takes this point regarding domestic waste processing and processing in a somewhat significant way. It highlights the active role of the Department of Processing Fund in Iceland in its activities, not primarily in economic prosperity and in the importance of certain aspects of these materials. This is a recommendation by the Environment and Transport Committee. The goals of the bill are clear, looking to the future and our responsibility for the environment. Lay on the deep, and don't magnify yourself, said the psalmist. It's not myth to talk about the deep things of this relationship, for there's a lot of sailing and a lot of traveling we're about to do. The deep is wide, on both the breadth and on the depth. It's a trip where we keep going, and sometimes we're in the middle of a turbulent sea, that's for sure. But all passengers will grow stronger and learn and will be even better to understand that waste is primarily raw. The way we are going to accomplish this is not clear to the point of success. In this respect, rural areas are considerably different, and they call for more information on exports and on the necessary tools and possibilities and do not separate or run away. costs. At the expense of these factors, we must all prepare as one person. It's all about us. This involves every human child in Iceland and every human child in the world. Mr. President. Finally, I'm willing to thank the members of the Committee for their excellent cooperation in the processing of this large community case that concerns all of us in the present and future. Most of all, I thank you for your background, boy. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson, who with knowledge and insight covered the way to this work and to the extent that we have come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u179	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The Environment and Transport Committee for cooperation in this case, as in so many others during the election period, has been excellent and especially at this level. Thanks, too. A prominent official, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for his work as an authority in the case. The points in the preceding talks have been addressed, so I'm not going to repeat what has been said. But I'd like to draw attention to it, in view of the concern that many reporters were concerned about the possible cost of the bill and this introduction, the theme of the case, which is being discussed in the leading committee section at the end of the article, which says, by permission of the president: As shown in a report with the bill, the directives have not been recorded in the EEA Convention but are being prepared for a decision there at EEA/EFTA level. In view of this, I especially want to point out and be glad that there is a specific point that we need to look to in what way these types will be recorded and implemented. As it says here, with President's permission: So the more part is also directed to the Ministry to monitor the progress of the initiatives in that field and to respond if necessary, such as a delay in the implementation of the law now January 1, 20203, to ensure that during the recording of the products in the EEA contract, there will be no costly cost for European companies, rural and consumers until the preparation of the Regulation is undertaken. I think this is a reasonable approach in view of the fact that the types have not been adopted in the EEA Convention and not being supplied in the joint EEA committee. I just wanted this discussion to point out, because I think this should be a significant concern that the implementation will be more burdensome than what may be a permanent implementation on the basis of the EEA induction. But again, I want to thank you very much for your good work in the case. Thank you. For his work, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who hopes that we will succeed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u180	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of committees on the bill to correct the change in rural legislation and the law on farm income populations, the minimum population of rural society. This is a report from a greater part of the environment and transport committee, and it's already available. 1622 - No. 378. The committee received a number of reviews, a total of over 30 people, regarding the matter and received visitors on the subject. In addition, the committee has dealt extensively with local politics during this terms and in recent uses. it's about work with this case. However, about the bill itself: The bill suggests that there will be laws that measure the minimum population population of rural society, adjustment of rural society to such objective and guidelines for court treatments. As the bill was proposed, a case is appropriate when the local government minister takes the initiative together. Then the bill contains a law related to a member of the rural community, such as the local authority to use telecommunications during a meeting. It is suggested that rural areas need to be shaped for the services of less than the larger settlements, as well as other changes proposed in order to reduce the legal barrier to community unity. The bill is a factor in enforcing the conclusions made by General No. 21/150 for a policy-making programme in rural affairs prior to 2019-22033, particularly the 1st Annual Action Programme, which states that the minimum number of rural partners should be 250 from the 2022 rural elections and 1,000 from the 2026 rural elections. Then I'm going to go over the work of the Committee, but the results of this work are, in the opinion of a greater part of the work, well satisfied with the main objective of the bill to improve sustainable development of rural society and to promote the whole regional government level. However, a few members of the rural community have expressed great opposition to the regulations of the bill that require that a minister take the initiative for a team member in cases where a community does not achieve minimum size. My team of members sent the Committee a proposal to change Article 1. The bill, and you referred to many, and in fact, more, the locals, in their review, referred to it. After the bill was submitted at the General Assembly of 30 November 2020, the National Assembly of the European Union was held on December 18, the same year, showing support for the part of the Parliament's resolution that shows that the minimum population of rural society was lower than that of the national Parliament in September 2019. The Secretary of Transport and Foreign Affairs referred to this in their talk to the 1st. regarding the matter, she noted that if it could result in a greater solidarity on the subject, he would be open to discussions about the media. The majority consider it very important to work on this issue with emphasis on broad solidarity on the options to promote the level of government. This will highlight the importance of an important key priority for the system conversion of what is being proclaimed in the bill is general harmony and solidarity. In view of this, the Commission made plans to make changes to the bill in cooperation with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and sent them to all units so that they would have the opportunity to make comments before the committee concluded a discussion on the matter. The four additional comments were offered in general but were encouraged to consider some of the points that the committee was encouraged to consider. The changes made by the majority and explained in the above suggestions are based on the above suggestions. I'll go over them later, but first, I'm going to come in to what's being done in the committee's opinion. There were a number of reviews that included the importance of financial support in uniting communities. The majority agree, stressing that the government and the European Union are working together to ensure the funding of the collective community. The majority also refer to the 2nd Annual Action Programme in General No. 21/150 that mutual support will be greatly increased. Then, for the change: As previously stated, significant comments have been made on paragraphs 1 and 5. The bill. The majority chose to look for ways to make such changes and suggest that these regulations be removed, whereas a new arrangement will be replaced by a new one. The bill. The majority suggest that instead of saying that the minimum population of rural society will be 1,000 inhabitants in 1 mg. 1st par. General policies require that the minimum size of rural population be 1,000. This will contribute to the increased sustainable development of rural society and their ability to care for legal projects. The majority of the policy measures are in line with the core criteria discussed in the rural issues programme. It then reviews the duties of a community that does not achieve minimum size. As we have seen, the greater part suggests the change between the failure of a minister and the initiative of uniting, not reaching the minimum size, other or other neighboring communities. Instead, 2 mg is suggested. 1st par. The bill shall include that the rural management of less than the minimum size of a community should aim to achieve targets for the increased sustainable development of rural society and ensure its ability to perform legal tasks. To do this, the rural government actually has two ways, either starting a formal conversation on the basis of Article 119. Substitute control or work on the state of the community and its cohesion. The Ministry should be sent to inform the local authorities and then presented to the local people with the permission of the Ministry. After the opinion of the team, the local government has to make a formal decision on the right to initiate a mutual discussion and to have two discussions on the basis of Article 18. Substitute government law. If the local government is not to initiate a cohesive conversation, 10% of citizens entitled to a local company can be asked for a general and binding vote on the decision. The requirement of the directive is to activate each unit's election and therefore own a rural government that has fewer than 1,000 people in the election to initiate cohesion talks or to have a post-election opinion regardless of whether there is an earlier opinion of the same challenge or whether such negotiations have been carried out before. This will help us to see how and what it needs to be done and how decisions are made and how it is reviewed. I'm not going to go into any more of that. Similarly, in this section of the Committee on Pays, I don't think it's a reason for further reviewing that the main points were highlighted in the section that I was going over. Then adjustment is now being made to the target for population. The majority feel that it is proper to initiate negotiations or to work the position of rural society to be carried out in stepwise, as expected in the above policy-making programme in the community, so that the obligation to rural society will work with fewer than 250 inhabitants at the next regional election in 2022 but will be fully implemented in 2026. The majority suggest that there are temporary additions to provisions for this material. Since then, only the next review of a policy-making programme is being implemented on the affairs of the rural community. It suggests that in addition to the new provision for developing the next policy-making programme, Ministers should have the basis for analysis of different ways that are falling to achieve the aim of Iceland's rural development to become a robust and sustainable region of democratic activity. In other words, it may be suggested that this approach is the most appropriate one or that there is something needed to be replaced or changed. Then, at last, there is a change in telecommunications, for although not long ago, local government laws on telecommunications have become a major change in recent years and a reason to update expressions without involving material changes. The main change is that the term "flavoured" has been removed from using the term "supervisive" and more about participation in meetings electronically. Using the reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed adjustment made in a special Senate document. 1623, and I've been explaining these changes here. Under the opinion of the above reference work, Telegrapher Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Guðálänsson, who sign in advance, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Vilmál Árnason, a fourth - mgr. 18th par. Standards for the Synod's fixed committees, where he was absent from the case. At that time, Hanna Friðriksson Friðrisson writes in advance that she intends to explain in her speech. That's when the opinion has been explained. I'd like to thank the members of the Environment and Transport Committee for cooperation with this work, because this is not in itself a simple matter that had been a major disagreement. But I think we've managed to find some successful landings knowing that rural society's issues will continue to be revised in strategy and policies that have become regular since we agreed here on the first policy strategy in existing rural affairs of earlier this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u181	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a member of the Committee on Environment and Transport on this matter. I want to say first of all that the Central Party has fought this case, both in the last assembly and in the winter, on the highest journey. Minister has led to part of the country's rural society. The result is here, in the form of a change in the development of more parts as well. The speaker of much of the material has set us apart here in his talk. The results are acceptable, and of course, we welcome them primarily. First and foremost, we rejoice in less than 1st that the legal union of our rural society has been removed. It's a great victory, Mr. President. The procedure that most of the committee decides to go, and is, I think, in a fine way, is the one described in the transition that is very complex, Mr. President, and burdensome. It is assumed that in the post-election period, if a rural society is below that 1,000 citizens, who are a lot of rural communities, should take over a certain process. The process is complex and burdensome, and within a year the local community starts a formal conversation or has an opinion made. Work on this opinion is not simple because there are many conditions and laws also set out that a minister should provide guidance on the points to be made. Of course, it allows the requirements to be very detailed and burdensome for small areas of society. Some rural societies are very small, that's absolutely true, and may not have much force to be in office for the Ministry to meet this. I would suggest that this will not be so burdensome that a whole set of values might just be the case. There are various factors to consider. It will evaluate the capacity of the community to carry out legal tasks, etc. and the opportunities of unity. There is no mention of the benefits of not being united but only of opportunities to unite. But there may also be advantages on the other side, etc. Then the Ministry is to send it when this job is finished and the Ministry is to give a review, and there is now some work to do. Then the inhabitants should be introduced in some reasonable way, as the article puts it, regardless of what it will be, in the Council of Regulation, how it will be presented. If the government does not then decide to start negotiations, 10% of the people in the U.S.A. can request a vote. Then it will take place within six months, and if it is not discussed, then the results are binding. It's a very burdensome process for very small communities. I testify, Mr. President, that these rural communities are proposed to be treated, large reports, formal requirements for the process, shipments and consultations in a number of ways. I'd like to suggest that these little communities are laid out to identify their own business, detect the pros and cons, etc. These are not requirements, Mr. President, which are made on the larger rural areas, and yet, as the example shows, many other pots are broken. They're not supposed to go on this process, but good and good, my communities have agreed to go this way, I understand, and it's fine. But I'm just pointing to this fact. This heartless journey. A minister began many years ago, based on, Mr. President, some resolution, or approved at the European Union Parliament, which, of course, depends on the size of the local community. By the power of the masses, larger communities could agree that they should be united, and no rural society should have more than 1,000 or so. In the force of the masses, these smaller communities, their members at the National Assembly, were to be forced to unite, against their will, perhaps against their needs and necessity. It's just another thing, and it was right at the beginning, and that's why I'm using the word unscrupulous, very obvious that it was very unfair to build on the fact that in the force of the masses, some sort of resolution that would follow a minister. That's what's going on, Mr. President. Reservation at the highest. Since the contributions of this case at the end of the last council, the local minister of the case has been inconspicuous from the beginning. Finally, this change, which I rejoice to see, has been run by the highest power. Ministers to the corner of the matter, the weapons are laid down, and the result is this. I'm just warning you not to make too much demands on these matters when this is the case. My community's own personal rights need to be respected. It's one of the two national administrative points and we have to respect the voluntary rights of the local community. I'm not going through this story more than I've already done, but the 1st small part points out that country members are not bound to a population. If you consider the legal service that is nearest to the population, e.g. preschooler service, it can be seen that children from 12 months of age have been available in a number of smaller rural areas. Larger rural areas in the same area have, in all cases, reached the same level of service for that service. Then there are many instances where smaller communities are more organized to the elderly than larger rural areas. What's the problem? Law-enforcement? Thus, in terms of less than 1st, the claim that rural society needs to be expanded so that the population is not fully and not in all cases, far from that point of view. Sadly, some offenders can be found in rural service. They can be found, but they are not limited to smaller rural areas, far away, and we know exactly what to do. City of Congress. The first smaller part also shows that in general the financial situation of larger rural communities is worse than the smaller when compared with the local government standards, i.e. the rules of balance and debt required in the law. Community status according to these criteria says some of the sustainableity of the local community. A lower share of the opinion that sustainable development of rural society will not be limited to its size and will be sufficient to compare the financial status of the various rural communities with that of e.g. Reykjavíkurburg. In the development of the greater part, it is assumed that if the population of rural society is below 1,000 under general government elections it should be selected within one year of that election endeavoring to achieve the targets of law with increasing sustainableity and to ensure the ability of a community to handle legal tasks. I've been through this and maybe I won't read this opinion much longer but I just want to reiterate that unpredictable road trip. Minister finally ends with the result of what I am very happy about the collapse of my legal alliances. This mission to the unit's level is about to come to an end. It's been dropped, Mr. President. It is our requirement that smaller rural areas have self-involved and the government encourage them and offer for that purpose financial assistance to cohesion, I'm sure. It may be encouraging and encouraging, but it should be self - centered. I would like to reiterate, Mr. President, here at the end of the opposition of the Central Party in this case has led to this conclusion that I rejoice to be experienced here in the House of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u182	Mr. President. We'll discuss here the bill on changing rural legislation and the law on rural income groups, in other words the minimum population of the rural population. With this bill, that's what. The Environment and Transport Committee has had a considerable period of treatment, is proposed to establish rules measuring the minimum number of rural population, which is a substantial change from the previously intended level, where minimum number of rural partners were to be legalized. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, took a detailed review of the work committee and the steps taken in the work towards the change in terms of disappearing from this legislation and, instead, laid out to ensure that the minimum number of rural partners should be 1,000 inhabitants. Then, with clear rules, the details of the Regulation are carefully considered, endeavoring to ensure the ability of your community members to carry out legal tasks, even though they do not agree. I'm glad they've reached this position, and the suggestions given to the committee by my team were met by the work force, i.e. change in Article 1. The bill, which originally bowed to legalization of the minimum number of rural society, is very positive. I sign this majority opinion in advance. One of them learns that I find the export to the duties of rural society that do not achieve minimum size very complicated. It has been reviewed here, i.e. A rural or rural society that does not achieve minimum size should be aimed at achieving targets for the increased sustainable development of rural society and ensuring its ability to perform legal tasks. In order to achieve this objective, the rural administration can either do either; start a formal cohesion conversation or work on the status of the community and its cohesion factors. Then it is this journey that was considered to be the case, i.e. to send it to the Ministry for information, introduce it to the local community, then make a formal stand on the local government to see if it is proper to initiate negotiations, have two discussions. If the government decides not to make negotiations, 10% of the citizens entitled to the company can be asked for regular binding votes. In other words, this is an obligatory arrangement that is activated at any rural election. Now it's not that I'm particularly concerned that this is too complicated. But I'm very concerned about my follow-up. We're still talking about a very large number of rural communities, and it can be quite large for the Ministry to observe this. I just wanted to stress that it needs to be followed and that it will be reconsidered if this is going to work. Because, while the deportation has been changed, fortunately - and again it is positive that there is a positive conclusion taken into consideration by the results of my partner's work group, and this change, this majority opinion is presented in a compromise and is the best option - it does not change the big picture that it is the future view set before us here. I fully agree that we need to reduce the number of rural societies, thereby promoting the communities that are present, and hence the whole level of rural control. That's at least My vision, and it's reflected in this opinion of the greater part. So, my model says that I'm concerned that we've made it so complicated that the follow-up, and therefore, the perspective, is too difficult. It's our job, then, to follow through on it. Then, too, I took notice of something else that is in the big picture in this case but is considerably less. That is the law found in 2 Chronicles. The bill, for the use of telecommunications equipment, has been found in rural communities. The majority of them certainly suggest a positive change so that local government sources are recommended to participate electronically in local administration meetings and committees and local councils. In other words, in the bill it is assumed that this provision for telecommunication is that the general rule is that the local government is within the same community if they are to be allowed to participate in meetings through telecommunications or electronic or noncombatant activities. I think it's unnecessary for me to think of, I must say. It has been observed in the Committee that it makes the point of using technology to the limit and the fact that local officials are granted vacation time, as well as the possible introduction of lipmen and others at work. In itself, I don't object to those views, certainly not. But I would have thought the solution would be not to be so proselytizing this into the law itself, to nail down this prescientism there, and then leave it with individual rural society to set out a rule of work. I think things are really funny in this discussion here, where it's been a really long time to change your bill, despite at least The more part agrees on the end goal, that rural society will be united where possible - is the way to abandon legalization and leave it in their hands, all based on the natural self-determination rights of the rural community - that we should then nail down to the law how each community should conduct its own telecommunications. There's something peculiar about this approach in my opinion. It's the other one I'm going to put on this case, but neither is the big thing that I refuse to share my opinion. I'm certainly there, but I'd like to make both comments. So I'd like to go to the end of the meeting to celebrate the fact that two large issues that have been on the program in different ways, however, quite large, on the one hand, are the members of the community and the fragrance we are discussing now, and, on the other hand, it's the principle of a highland park, have called for much discussion about the private rights of society, the independence of rural communities, certainly in their own way, and the fate of these two cases are different. However, it does not change that in both of these matters, in the work of the environment and transportation committee and in the discussions here at the Hall, it has come to appreciate the most clear will of the Parliament to respect the national decision-making rights of any country, including the national community. In organizational matters, so I believe that we have made a definite statement, and there is no doubt about any longer as to what clear will be involved in the greater part of the council. I say this because in the past of this government, there have been issues, large and small, as there have been reasons to be very concerned about the way the government or lawgiver is going to this self - determination right. I believe the doubt was simply destroyed here and now, so there must be celebrations wherever they are. I'm not gonna keep this any further, Mr. President, and finish my case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u183	Mr. President. This is one of the largest changes we've seen on the bill in which the methodology used when rural society did not meet minimum population numbers was dropped from what was expected in the bill. But I think this approach is an improvement. I agree with those who have expressed delight in the work that the leading director of the case worked with both the Icelandic community and the relationship of smaller rural partners, or what they call themselves again, and perhaps we also remember that these figures are a very imperfect standard. The population does not necessarily tell the whole story about the ability of rural society to carry out the tasks expected of its inhabitants or the ability to ensure the rights of the population. This line is drawn to 1,000 people who are just making a decision and may as well be 100 or 2,000 or 5,000, depending on the situation in each rural society. What's more pleasant to these landings, which are displayed in the conversion process, except for the natural, that this is a significantly less substantial method to the rural population than the hard legal compression of the earlier version of the bill, is that it is required that if communities want to deviate from the basic law that a community is of a specific size to be able to ensure their ability to care for legal tasks, they need to establish their position with professional and good reason by making an assessment of financial and social factors and other factors. Then, when the local government has taken this opinion for a discussion, and if they decide not to get involved with neighboring communities, then there is a possibility for citizens to want to vote on that decision. What is being done in this process is that the threshold the inhabitants need to cross in order to get that vote is quite low. It takes only 10% of those who have the right to vote in the local community to impose such a vote forward. This, Mr President, in my opinion, reflects in my opinion that when a community claims to support itself from the main objective of the law, the government needs a pretty strong argument to make that decision. At a convention, the people of the community, the people to whom this decision is concerned, must find it quite easy to challenge the decision if they disagree with it. So getting together, I think this work on the Environment and Transport Committee has yielded quite a lot better than the Committee, and thank you again. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for her hard work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u184	Mr. President. I'm willing to thank you. The head of the environment and transportation committee, Anna Sævarsdóttir, for transporting this and making a good report for the members of the committee. This perspective and the bill are followed by a synopsis on the same topic, a policy-makers' plans for the affairs of rural society for 20192333 and a plan for action for 2019◯223, recommended by the Minister at the last council, No. 21st This bill is expected to be thought of as a step in carrying out the objectives of the synonym. The main points of the bill are no conflict, and in fact, I believe the subject is a good partnership on the environment and transport committee, ensuring the ability of rural partners to provide legal and effective, reliable services for the citizens. However, there is a question to our minds in the Group of Congress on the continuation of the Minister's decision, both the immediate decision of the General on this subject, which states that no community should have fewer than 1,000 people within the particular period, and that this bill also relaxes these objectives and remains, despite the fact that the National Association's Union Parliamentary Council has imposed and accepted both the original objective of the Senate resolution and the bill in its earlier form. We would have chosen that a minister would be more determined and determined to move at the level of government to expand and expand. It is not demonstrated that these targets will be effective in all the years to come, but there are likely two single units in the land. Mr. President. A number of rural communities in Iceland have been varied and have taken considerable shifts in historical context. In 1910 there were 203 rural societies in the country, but most of them grew in 1948,1952, or 229. Since then, the number of rural communities has decreased by 160, from 229 to 69, and probably 68 after the last election for the recent weekend. As I mentioned in the lump, two units of unity in two territories, which will likely be this year, with two rural communities and four other groups. More than 54% of rural communities, or 39 rural communities, have fewer than 1,000 inhabitants, and today's smallest rural population has a population of between 42◯93. The largest of them, however, is that of over 133,000 inhabitants. This is much space, and it is difficult to imagine that these individuals can perform a comparable service, even a comparable legal service. Seven of these rural communities have less than 100 inhabitants, and it does not take much calculus to realize that so small and small rural communities have in view the changes and the demands of society that we have to cope with and provide legal services, that there are not many social services, to young children, adolescents, families, those who live in disability and the elderly. It is a challenging task that requires a great deal of character, professional power, and capital. Mr. President. The bill and the core of its contents are an important subject for discussion, which is much less than a new one. They speak with a clear voice to our day and to the circumstances we live in when we, as well as perhaps primarily to the future. It supports the goal that the level of rural management is strong, and the red cord is to promote the whole of the countryside to receive more and more important work as a solution to the surrounding community. It is absurd to claim that this is a mission to the unit level. You can say, Mr. President, that the modified changer, so you can take it with that expression - that the vision that is held in this bill as it is after a change, although the bite is a little out of it. There is no disagreement that the responsibility, emphasis, and molding of community services are best established in the local community, that they are organized there, and developed according to the needs of the local communities. There are more and more aspects of evolution, technology and demand everywhere, both technical requirements, electronic factors, and one speaker tonight when it came to the fact that the small rural community's communications and reporting are aggravated. That is correct, since these small rural communities have to deliver a wide range of data and information, they support much of their business in support of the Slurpee Fund of rural society. Of course, these are the facts of life, regardless of how each person feels, regardless of what his emotions are, part of the subject. They make sense to me. They're worth it. While there is a positive attitude in many rural areas to this, to harmony, to improve cooperation, even though they are positive for the goals presented, there are certainly some differing opinions on the subject of the bill, some factors, and emphasis. This theme appears mainly among several smaller rural communities. Even smaller rural governments say that in general the financial situation of smaller communities is better than that of the larger. We hear voices saying that the failure of the state on large metal groups will not be solved by a combination of small rural partners, that problems in one place will not be solved by uniting here and there, with 1 kilometers remaining 1,000 yards, although rural communities are united, and that partnerships do not solve service workers or negative rural development. That's right, all right. The transport factor, for example, is an enormously important factor, and the public, the State, should be considered to be much more direct, encouraging unity in connection with largely improved transport. There have been several opportunities to do so, but they have been maligned in my opinion. In conversations with the local government and the number of people, including in the Strategies of the Environment and Transport Committee, it is also noted that the demand for 1,000 people does not change everything, it is a bit different, but not a sum of money, much more than the increase from 250 to a minimum of 1,000. Much closer, then, would be to think more and think in 5,000 inhabitants the minimum, or even 8,000, and that rural partnerships must be based on economic, social, and geographic grounds, not solely on an appeal number. In this regard, it should be noted that in many areas of rural society, this subject is related to strong emotions. As I mentioned earlier, it is just so that several rural communities manage their business in such a way that they are next in a wide way around basics, but it works primarily because of the draught of rural Slurpee Fund, which is, in fact, a matter of special importance. Then, too, smaller rural communities have cooperated with neighboring communities, larger rural areas, and they have developed services together on certain factors, which are now a wide pot breaking. The smaller communities feel that the larger are going a little further, leading the case, and often on the grounds of the larger ones. Mr. President. At the end, I'd like to mention one point that I feel I need to explain much more clearly and define in the relationship between state and country. In turn, more of the part was made to change as well as the rest of it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned that there is something important, and, of course, the point of this bill is added to Article 4. which reads, by permission of the President: In order to improve the sustainable development of rural society and to ensure their ability to perform legal tasks, the aim should be to ensure that the minimum number of rural society does not exceed 1,000.◯ We're heading for this, we've got the silky way to approach, but we're not getting up on our feet like we would have chosen. This term "sustainability, " there is reason to consider its contents in this context. What is the meaning of a rural society being self-sustained? We asked the questions several times in an environmental and transport committee with visitors, but I don't think I've been able to answer when a rural society is self-sustained. Is it self-sustained when they can't get any payments from a community society or when they get 10, 20, 30, or 40% from their income from an equation fund? In a paper with the synopsis mentioned at the outset, the policy-making plan of rural society for the year 2019-52033 is a special chapter on this concept, sustainable. It seems that in the contract it has been concluded that sustainableness would reveal the capacity of the rural community to sustain itself in a positive way, whether economic, social, or environmentally. Of course, these are familiar terms in the discussion of sustainability. What, though, is an upbuilding way? Mr. President. The local sustainableness question, the definition of that term, seems to be cast upon the spread of this bill, e.g. Which is the treasure of the congregation, and it is not good. Of course, discussions about sustainability are very important when developing policies for the long term and for the state of the government. Mr. President. I'm not going to keep it all this far now, but I'd like to do it before I'd like to do my case thanks to the head of the Committee opinion, why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's negative, for holding the matter in its gentle firmness and of my fellow members for a good job in the processing of this case. It should have been here, in my opinion, stepped closer to the ground. This is a step, though, but the step would have to be more specific and larger.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-11-112.u185	Mr. President. As noted, a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee has been identified as a review of a change in climate laws about noncarbonization. It is hardly surprising to say that the committee received 12 visitors and six envelopes. The general section on the topic review says, with the permission of Mr. President: In the 2040's, the sign for noncarbonistic Iceland was set out in the Treaty of the Foreign Government of Propulsion Class, Self - Opportunity, and Left Forces of Green, which adopted the 30th November 2017, and is subject to material contributions in accordance with that purpose. A lack of carbon share is a state in which greenhouse gas emissions are stabilised and man - made carbon bindings and therefore there is no net emissions. General satisfaction with the bill is described in the comments given to the committee. In them they come, even. to the importance of consultation with further policy measures on carbon neutralisation and the implementation of non-carbon goals will be looked at international standards and policy. The majority feels that the international commitments of Iceland in climate - related activities include human activities that affect emissions and binding as well as the aim for noncarbonization. A greater proportion of the importance of consultation with experts, the public and other stakeholders in further policies on non-carbonization and target implementation. Most of the time, in this relationship, it reminds us that non-carbon is a community project. Work and the cost of reaching that goal are fundamental to success are the responsibility of the State, rural society, industry, and the public. There are two main elements in this committee party. Another deals with the legalization of target targets for reduction in emissions by 2030. The reviews call for a legal fixation on the target of a recession target by 2030. The majority of the rights to the Icelandic government have made a statement since December 2020 commitment to participate in a common objective of Norway against the European Union and at the same time the dead end of the direct commitments of Iceland. In addition, the introduction of Europe's initiatives is aimed at achieving targets and being involved in a joint project of these implementations. The target objectives are explained in a step-by-step manner and cannot be tied to the law of a given number of years into the future. The target of Iceland's climate is at least 55% reduction in emissions, and this was formally announced to the United Nations Climate Convention this year. The first target of 2016 was aimed at a 40% reduction compared to 1990 emissions. The majority of the countries feel that it is very important that the Icelandic government is working hard on the above targets and introduces at regular intervals its updated plan of action. Land use and carbon binding are included in the section.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: It is said that land use needs to be explained and criticized as to how land use emissions will be treated for noncarbonization. In this regard, to reach the target of noncarbonization, the main thing is to reduce emissions rapidly. However, the improved land use, the increased recovery of ecosystems, forestry, and other carbon - binding methods are very important. The assessment of emissions and carbon binding in land use and forestry depends on considerable uncertainty and much more than from other sources. It is both difficult to measure carbon cultures from vegetation to soil, and it is also difficult to distinguish between natural processes and human activities. For this reason, national emissions are generally expressed in international comparison without land use and commitment and emissions accountings for forestry and land use as separate from other sources. The greater part of the claim that it is crucial that the information that provides a fundamental estimate of Iceland's effectiveness in terms of non-carbonization is reliable and that it can be confirmed. The majority are aware that there is now a lack of reliable information on some aspects of land use and recovery of ecosystems, and therefore it is important to improve research and information. The status of knowledge and information varies according to individual land use groups and is working to improve the quality of greenhouse gas emissions and carbon uptake as a result of land use, with the purpose that Iceland meets its commitments to land use, change in land use, and forestry. That work began in 2020, with increased funding for land healing and forestry and is aimed at completing that work in 2023. The emissions from land use, changing land use and forestry in Iceland are expected to be relatively high in total Iceland emissions compared to other countries. Thus, it is necessary to expand this contribution further to noncarbonization when more knowledge is available and when the European Union's methodology and climate agreement are clarified. Counting the larger part with a reference to this is not possible to explain a share of land use specifically in the bill. The most part's adjustment proposals are simply in Article 1. According to the bill, in the year 2040, noncarbonization is achieved. The majority of the shares are considered to be different over a long period of time, e.g. Because of technology and growing interest in carbon binding in society, it may be possible to reach the target some time before 2040. In 2040, a greater proportion of the material suggests that instead of achieving a non-carbon object, it is no longer reached by the year 2040. This suggests that the majority contributes to a technological change that is not meant to have material influence. I'm not going to go through these changes, Mr. President, but I'm here to describe that Hjaltason Gautiç writes under the heading in advance. It supports strong carbon - binding measures as well as those that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He feels that there is no need to legalize the 2040 non-carbon goals. The Guðjón S.'s Brjánsson - fearing husband signs in advance that he intends to explain in his speech. Jón Gunnarsson was away from the hearing. Under this, June 7th, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who is in advance, Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, in advance, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Mr. President. I haven't exactly finished my case because there's an upcoming committee opinion with a new proposal, and I'm also from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee. It says, and I'm going to read, by permission of the president, this very brief opinion: ▪ The question has again been discussed. The objective of Iceland's noncarbon shareholders in 2040 is set out in the Treaty of the current government as well as in the climatic strategy published in 2018 and updated in 2020. In 1st. The bill is suggested to legalize this objective. If there is a change in policy, it is important that the law's clear goal should be updated. If the lawgiver decides to update law - enforcement goals in accordance with government proposals and policy change, then that goal will be committed to the government, cr. Legal order of the administration order. The greater part of it is that there is a clear agreement between government policy and noncarbon laws and thus suggests a change of 1. The bill that changes in government climate goals should suggest changes in the law. So, Mr. President, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following adjustment: We're on 1st. Add to the new case, as follows: If the government's climate targets are updated, changes should be made in harmony with that. The Guðjón S. of Brjánsson was away from the case, but he signed this opinion under the authority of 4 mg. 18th par. helming the rules of conduct of the Syndicates of the General Assembly. Signed today, June 11, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Generon Brjánsson, Brjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I want to finish my case by thanking everyone. Environment and transport committees for cooperation and the Chairman especially for his work. These so-called green issues we've done here today are all important steps in not only sustainable society in Iceland in the future, non-carbons and other such, but in regard to both natural and natural resources and nature protection, as I believe we have done well today. But, Mr. President, I am here to present my case.
