ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u1	To answer these questions, secretary of finance, transport and local government, travel, industrial and innovation, and social and child - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u2	Mr. President. In the annual list ofucheities that measures corruption, Iceland falls by six places, now in 17th, and in the longest northern parts of the country. According to the report, corruption is a threat to democracy as a form of evil. This is unmistakably true of research. Depravity threatens fundamental rights, opportunities, and quality of life and undermines confidence in society and governments, the institutions of the European Commission, the legislators and the jurist. Among the explanations, the report mentions the collapse of the bank, the finance of politicians in the Panama Documents, and now the last Samerja case, also the introduction of corruption to public agencies. No one lent me a moment's mind to the land's court case. Even if corruption is never to be tolerated, it may not be possible to stop business ventures from turning aside from virtue in business, but it is only when the government's role, that governments's laws and messages are clear. It is clear to everyone that any maneuvers and funding will be addressed to the necessary monitoring agencies, including A general agent, the tax investigator, the prosecutor, is not cut off from the nail. In this context, Mr. President, the words of Ministers are very expensive. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has previously answered that he is not concerned about corruption in Iceland and Icelandic commercial affairs, both following the arrival of Iceland on a gray list and when the Samherja papers appeared. That's a very clear message. He seems to consider matters that arise, not a system problem to be handled by the government. Transparancy International looks different and is concerned about both the situation and the development of the past few years. It's the highest. Is the minister of finance as carefree as I asked him a year ago or does he feel a reason to consider the points? And if so, what will the government do?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u3	A respectable president. I think the problem is as good as any. A senator here gives support to the need to be deeply concerned about corruption in Iceland. To call the case corruption in the National Court case when all the evidence is open, when the General involved, and make the final decision, when officials appear to appear before the committee and give reasons for the Minister's proposal, when the council is officially elected here. Of course, calling out for such acts of corruption is a far cry from the heart. Whether one chooses to look at the glass is half full or half full is a small matter here. As we examine these conclusions with only a positive attitude. It seems that a senator is a custom, and as you can see, Iceland joins the least corrupt nations in the world. However, if we want to measure some other measures in that matter, which group we are not, we may not be able to point out that this standard, which is not absolute, or is not perfect in any way, is not as high as that of the North countries. I'm probably thinking about what we can do to cope with that situation. One thing that is prominent in a report like this, and the same thing about GRECO, is that this is not necessarily an example of corruption in human hands, but the feeling that somewhere in the grassing of corruption, some of that vague feeling. This often happens when political leaders surface and speak in exactly the sense that it gets worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u4	Mr. President. When it comes to government action against corruption, I'd like to have the full glass and the examples I mentioned are by no means trivial. I mentioned the collapse of a bank. I mentioned the abnormal financial affairs of politicians in connection with the Panama papers and I named the Samherja papers. I'd like to mention in relation to this report that the MMR poll shows that only 23% trusts the secretary of finance to hold on to sales in Iceland Bank. That conclusion is intriguing, and there are undeniably questions. Now I ask Telvur. Ministers that this is a national concern with Iceland's finance minister in general, and with the government, that there is a system problem, or thinks it's the highest. Secretary of finance, as in the other cases, that there is a particular problem and suspicion with the Secretary of finance Bjarni son of Benediktsson and his connection to one of these matters in the report?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u5	A respectable president. We're a little far from the core of a matter when we're exchangeing our opinions on the polls. Or maybe we should consider it here, it would give us something to do for the people, why would it be that the 883/84% of the people don't want the community as an alternative to the government of the country? 83% just say no when the Conspiracy offers, we choose something else. It's just some bullshit talk. The important thing is that we are standing by what has been said in the bank sales business, following an open, transparent process in which no one is in a hurry. We take careful steps, following what has been proclaimed, to be able to share interested ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u6	A respectable president. Iceland is behind Russia when it comes to inflation and in the highest part of the European Economic Area. Most of the North countries have 0.5% inflation, except Norway has 1.5% of inflation and Norwegian dollars are not associated with the euro. South Europe's tourism countries are in or below 0% inflation. So once again, the crown is causing inflation at home. The Society's attempts to stop the fall of the crown have prevented the Dutch bank from printing money in the way that all bank banks are doing today. This will lead to poor creditors for the wealth of the land and reduce the scope of the government to countermand measures. The State's debt potential depends on the magnitude of debt as well as on interest level. But why is inflation higher here than in other places? A heavy contraction is high and there is a lot of relaxation, so anti-inflammatory pressure should not really be present. The answer, in my opinion, is even more than a dollar. This inflation is yet another reminder of how much knowledge there is, how profound a problem it eventually creates for homes, and for less than one company in the long run. First question: The final inflation rates show 4.33/4.7% inflation. Why not take action in time? Second, are governments incompetent now, or will they merely hope for the best? And third: Why is Iceland the only European tourism country with increasing inflation during a crisis? Is it simply so that you can't discuss the crown, the elephant itself in the room?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u7	A respectable president. The question can be understood. The senator said that it is desirable to be in an economy where inflation is 0.5%. I view it as a sign of illness that living in a currency area where the Navy bank, in this case the European money bank, has promised to buy 70% of all the state funds for paper in the near future - 70%. I view it as a great sign of illness that there are no interest in growth. But who will have to look at this? In Iceland, however, there is an excellent quality of health that this year's expectations for economic growth differs from those of many European countries. I'm not going to complain that people are asking questions about inflation. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. A senator found the wrong conclusion that it was the currency's fault. Let us ask ourselves, " What is underlying? ' These are all measurable sizes. Why would products be raising a little in Iceland? Could it be that something has to do with pay development in the country? It could be that in Iceland, one of them has been exposed to inflation. In comparison, a senator makes a significant increase in wages during the crisis? Could it be that it is gradually infected with pressures in service and in goods and elsewhere? I think that's just the way it is. However, the important thing at the moment is that commercial inflation is that it's a small shot that goes back. Looking forward, the whole market in Iceland is expected to be successful in mastering the level of inflation and reducing inflation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u8	A respectable president. I think the highest. The secretary of finance needs to decide whether he considers this a retractable inflation shot, or if it is desirable to become inflation. It is obvious that, like the first day, it will choke the inflation of the pay development at the labour market party. Of course, you can ask yourself, " Will I come first, the egg, or the chicken? ' Isn't it time, too, for the labour market partners in cooperation with the government, to discuss our currency, as I could before, the elephant in the room? Could it be that this way of getting paid for it is at home because we have this currency? Could that be so? The secretary of finance didn't answer anything in my opinion, except by pointing out the development of pay, why we are one of the travelers in a crisis in the nation's income, like any other nation in Europe, with inflation. We know exactly how long-term inflation can work for the homes and companies. The bill on the crown is always sent to the Icelandic home, to the companies. So I ask again, what's the vision at the highest. Secretary of finance in this regard? [[The president calls.]] We get it all back, we're used to this roller coaster ride with the crown, and it's time for us to start doing something else for homes and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u9	A respectable president. When we look back on the past few years, and, in fact, look over the past few years too, we have a million dollars to do exactly what we want our currency to do in a financial rhythm. It yields to create space and to improve its competitiveness and is strengthened, as it did in the years when tourism was running out. It had the desired effect and helped even. to build a lot of currency reserves in Iceland. The situation behind the Icelandic crown has never been stronger than it is now. What I was referring to with regard to inflation is the opposite. A senator seems to consider himself desirable to have no inflation. That's a big misunderstanding. We have a special inflation target of 2.5%. It would be health evidence that we are close to the inflation target. It's written in law and it's absolutely fundamental to understand that it's better to be at 2.5% than to be in zero. There's a lot of better conditions. [[The president calls.]] There must be a great impact on pay development, and I believe that we have probably done more in Iceland than there is in the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u10	A respectable president. A recent report has now been published in January by traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers on the status and development of the tourism Fund. What is wrong with this report, this ornamental chart? Yes, the report does not mention a single word for persons who are disabled; it does not mention a single word or its availability. Moreover, it is not the absolute design. It is called a single word. Why would that be strange? Yes, because this spring, June 5, was adopted at the General bill for a change in the European Commission law on tourism. An article in a committee study says, with permission of the president: ▪ History described the bill as a source of pleasure to the reporters. However, the review of survival established the view that access would have to be ensured in the places assigned from the travel fund. Therefore, the assessment of applications and contributions from the fund should be made of all-trap design. To that end, there were various arguments, including those that occurred in the first century C.E. Refer to the commitments of the United Nations government on the basis of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people and equalitarians. In view of the greater part, it is appropriate to take into account perspectives on absolute design when making decisions on the disposition of funds and to emphasize bioavailability to all as much as possible. In addition, the more part is entitled to the discussion of the bill, No. 160/2010, for absolute design, it falls under the standards of the law. In Iceland there are gross violations of human rights every day when motorists are deprived of combustion and self - determinationed access to housing, tourist areas, and public buildings. But it's normal to do so. A traveling minister does not respect his own laws and cannot put in his own ornamental literature a single word about what it is supposed to protect?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u11	Mr. President. This restructuring of the building of funds from the tourist sector is of projects assigned from the fund since 2012. Emphasis on bioavailability for disabled persons has increased over the years. When a project is being given a level and covered by an application, it is considered to be of value when a project meets such minimal criteria. I've always had a word with what. A senator here at a council hall I appreciate. I appreciate how much he places his interest on such projects that when assigned from public funds, those who care for those projects will notice that people with disability can experience them. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has had a conversation about the fact that there is not a requirement for those with disability to do exactly what everyone else in such places is doing. In the United States, in national parks, for example, there are always minimal requirements for those with disability so that they can enjoy their locality, enjoy the view, although that is the nature of the case not always going to all mountains with guidance. I think this requirement is self-denial. I've emphasized this in the changes we've made. This summary is just this large image and structure, considering the funds that have taken up the projects. But it would have taken little to swerve the changes and developments that have taken place over the years in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but unfortunately, the report doesn't have to be entered, it needs to be performed. Probably 95% of the public institutions in Iceland have a closed access to wheelchairs. Is it not just because the government's starving policy against microorganism makes it feel that the government has already made sure that the poor cannot afford to travel, and therefore there is no reason to have access to tourist destinations for those who cannot afford to go to it anyway? Thus, there is not one word about the bioavailability of disabled persons to tourist stations, not of absolute design. Violence against disabled persons must be stopped immediately, and it cannot be done by failing to comply with the law and providing the bill for the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Where's the bill? It was approved here at the council to submit this bill. What is the government doing? Why on earth is this not done? Why do disabled people continue to be violent? Is that acceptable with this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u13	Mr. President. This is a question of the construction fund and the way it is discussed the availability of disabled persons at destinations who have received funds from the fund. An application procedure specifically points to a summary of bioavailability achieved for all and emphasises it. We have endeavored to increase our understanding of it. This is emphasis, but it can certainly be done, and I am absolutely on that view, keeping up better with the emphasis and, of course, demand that when you build up the destination for all kinds of tourists, whether they are Icelandic or foreign or those with disability or not, there be access to everyone. Also, we may be especially following what results we are achieving in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u14	Mr. President. We've been reminded of it twice in about a year ago, it is important to maintain a powerful upper impact on Iceland, both because of the avalanche of Flatty just a year ago and also because of recent events that occurred in Seysteria. Each year, the annual collection of superfluous bills from Iceland's property owners is 2 billion. An additional 700 million a year of oversea had in interest of interest, so that about 3 billion a year was collected into this fund, a stream of surface protection. In an interview a year ago, after the incident in Flattu, a director in the fund said that it had about 23 billion bucks, but the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management wanted to deny there were 15 billion there. There's a difference of 8 billion, but that's a secondary point. A few years ago, the Ministry of finance confiscated a treasure and threw it into a government fund. News of the day revealed that the government was going to give 1,600 million on top of a flood, and of course the government doesn't give any money to it there because there is money, they're markets, they're charged every year. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is his will to use even more force on the money and the funds of this fund to further the flood control, not just in the two places I mentioned, other places lie on the East and beyond, whichever is the highest. A minister may think that if we are to become more effective members of this sect, we will be able to get these matters into order.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u15	A respectable president. I'm not going to go far into this story with the treasure of the floodwaters. But in very short terms, he is, in effect, a kind of accounting size in the financial affairs. What has been tested in history is how much funds are provided in each year's budget to sustain this project. The higher the budget, the greater the impact on the results of each year's budget. What I don't feel was okay, and I hope that I've been sufficiently clear about that, is that in fact, there was never in history since 1997 all the funds provided for implementation every year that was charged with this special fee. It does not make sense, and thus the argument is for the price itself, if it was never to be used in the declared purpose that has been given. After the events that took place. A senator referred to the sewing of this position, and we revealed back information about it, but then took the biggest step that has been taken in recent years in a new financial program in which we are making a big increase in the project. We took this into what we have called the government's infrastructure or investment campaign, and we are now working on a ten - year program in which all these major projects will be carried out. During that time, there should be no doubt that what is laid on property owners in the country will return to this structure. So I'd like to say that we've answered a handsome plea to make things better here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u16	Mr. President. As the former guardian of this fund for a few years and knowing what was in it back then and what to have been in it when the Ministry of finance took it over, I have to ask that it not only be what is paid him every year to come to these projects but also what had been collected at that time. What was created in this fund at the time, when I last looked at it, was enough to speed up the project by probably 10◯15 years, i.e. ....................................................................................................................................... I welcome the words of the minister, and thank them that he continues to do this. But I stress, so I ask the highest. A minister may not fully realize that the money available in the fund when the Ministry of finance overruled him will become new in order to accomplish these necessary projects as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u17	A respectable president. I just reiterate what I said before, that these are actually accounting sizes and maths in government, where the money is. It's like we had 100 tons of sugar and we said that we were in want, that we were making so much cookies that we were in no shortage. We'd have to borrow sugar from abroad to get back to work. Then they say, "Well, there's sugar in the corners that's good enough for the cake I'm gonna have it done this time. " This account doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u18	I guess that'll work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u19	The treasure is 320 billion squares. Then they say: There are plenty of money because we have made an earmark of a task. It was done here in the past. As I traced earlier: from 1997, these funds were not submitted. [[Up front.]] Yeah. This is what we've changed. We are going to give all this money back to this market. But when it comes to asking if we, in the interest of interest, will bring everything back from 1997, we have not been able to pursue that policy in this government. [[The president calls.]] However, we have a practical program.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u20	President. At Pirata's ultimatum in the Northeast, there was concern over the situation at the Southland, but six weeks ago, there was a baldness on the farm, and then another. Gradually, people have returned, but not in security. It had been warned of the possibility of moving for years. The Romans had been assured that if there was danger, the townspeople would be notified to make room. But once the alarm came to light, the alarm did not start. The Weather Service acknowledged a lack of appreciation for the situation, perhaps understandable a lack of appreciation. But is that excusable indiscretion? Maybe, because it didn't get worse than it did, but maybe not, because these were unprecedented circumstances. It is with unprecedented circumstances that it is difficult to grasp what needs to be done, but this is not to prevent us from trying. We need to realize that the situation is unprecedented so that we begin to think about how we can deal with it. There we arrived at the entrance of Generals and Governments. On the day after the landslides fell, the General Assembly provided a budget. Congress officials were convinced that there was enough money in an emergency fund to cope with the disaster. At the beginning of the year, the government decided to pay two thirds of the cost of cleaning work and to strengthen the local rescue team by 5 million. On the basis of news, it is the scope of the State Fund. Or what? At least no budget has been established or at least index. There is more to this than just cleaning work in Sufficiency, areas that are not safe, people who live in those areas, people who have not yet received answers and who have not yet moved to their homes. Insecurity is too much, the shock is too much. So I would like to ask the minister a simple question: What answers do we have to make us feel safe?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u21	A respectable president. This truly is a serious situation. A senator describes it, and the government has for some time since these events took place on the agenda. It seeks to give a full view of the situation. Eventually, this work will be the cooperation of the local, rural, MRI, and the relevant institutions of the State. You're right. A senator says that these were unprecedented circumstances. It was a natural disaster that took place in this cave that set in motion this series of events. But we knew that there was a danger. What humans are trying to do now, while all visible damage has been evaluated, is to reach a long-term conclusion on the part of the population that may be in a danger zone. This is what I think is the largest thing at the moment that remains. The question is, How can we get results of research to base decisions on the department planning issues? It simply has to answer the question: Is it safe to live in this street? If not, where to build up, the transport of all the families involved, etc.? The situation is that there is now research to address this important question. It is difficult to go through such a period while family members face conclusions about this. Of course, they want to make their plans, and we all understand very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u22	A respectable president. To eliminate uncertainty is something the government can do, something the General can do. If the question still remains, if it is safe to live in certain areas in the South Sea, we can answer what happens if it is not. Knowing at least gives people a sense of tranquillity that if they are not safe at home, they will respond. Then we will not have to put undue stress into action. There are such simple questions that we need to answer more. This is not just the shock of Seypsy. This also applies to the pandemic. That same question exists: What happens next? The answers could simply be greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u23	A respectable president. I'm not going to contradict it. It's very important to have answers to these big questions. At this time, research and assessment are being done to draw these lines, where the danger zone lies, or how it is defined. When it comes to that conclusion, it is not the government to decide where people will get settled, but the situation is that they are testing the guarantees they are at hand, and they are certainly there that can survive a moving and building in a new location. There must eventually be a choice, both society's, where to become, and the people involved, whether and where to settle in. That is why I said here at the outset: This is one huge cooperation project where, yes, the state has to have the answers for its part.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers for having a word with me in this special discussion about the state of the industry. It has hardly been overlooked the uncertainty of many of the enterprises defined as big business or high-energy industry. World market prices have played some of the gray and uncertainty involved in the restoration of electrical agreements has made it difficult for others. The global market price has little effect on us, but other factors we're affecting, such as electrical agreements, their renewal or extensions, distribution costs and the general order of the operation. I've felt that the tone of the vehicle in each area is a long-term negative. Groups, many of whom have little understanding of valuables, have come forward in a way that makes it obvious that they want companies, at least some of them, away. There I believe the government must be careful not to step in. Of course, the various business organisations and individuals are free to have everything on their minds toward these most important consumers of energy. However, when the government's messages seem to be long - range, their support for such activity is becoming worse. If we go around the country and start in the Northwestern district where we have the Iron Lands factory, where we have the Grunk and North Pole, then we'll move on to the Northeast standard where we have the PCC at Bakka and Förður, and then on to the Kragaan, where we have an aluminum plant in Straumsvík, we can all be aware of each layer of the nuclear company that is in each area, both of them and then all the secondary jobs involved. At the same time, they are the few outstanding companies who have developed in connection with the services of this important enterprise. Some of these important enterprises have been launched for a long time. The results of regional elections in Hafnarfjörður were a major blow in terms of the conflicting conditions of the Straumsvík. The development of world market prices has had a significant negative impact on the PCC on the Backside, although there is now hope for future operations. More recently, however, reports have been made that companies cry out of updated electricity agreements. I'm not going to stand here and argue that electrical energy should be delivered to the companies on sale, but to the press, you have tried to sail out both parties' technical contracts, suggesting that in a rather certain way you are going to achieve a raise in electrical contracts or to maintain a non-sustained price. I have felt that our biggest contribution to global climate has been the production of the most environmentally friendly aluminium in the world. I'm telling you there is no green branch in the world, but what is produced here in this country by renewable energy. In this context, I would like to review the words of the president of the Landing Office in the Morning Press, which he said, with the permission of a president: It does, in fact, often want to burn when it comes to renewable, environmental-friendly electrical processes that make it seem of little importance because that energy is new in contaminated activity. In fact, they have the lowest carbon footprints in the world. If Iceland stops producing aluminium and that production moves to China, where electricity is mainly absorbed by coal, emissions will increase by 10 million tons of carbon dioxide every year. There's more than twice the current total Iceland emissions to be found. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister's approach from environmental viewpoints, like what works in Straumsvík from the train, results in countries where energy is produced in an environmental way, such as by coal burns. So, does the Minister consider it to improve environmentally, in effect, the country's big business is down here? In addition, I'd like to hear the highest perspective. Ministers on who the Minister considers to be the main threat to the competitiveness of Iceland's major international industry and which avenues of the Minister would be most likely to improve the competitiveness of the members of this facility. Has the Minister been concerned about the limits to further energy efficiency in terms of the government's framework and high-regional parks that have now been submitted by the Environment Minister of the Council? And can a minister inform you of the position of contracts between the Straumsvík and the legislatures that seemed to be on the right way toward the end of the last year and have been quiet since then? Finally: Who thinks the Minister is the leading reason why the company's stated will has not been attacked by a worthwhile investment in the Northern World of Grunettes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u25	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for bringing up a major business with this discussion here at the council. Its situation has been well discussed recently, so there is good reason to review it. First, regarding the threat of a competitive situation in Iceland it was, as we have discussed, that of the independent analysis of the German business Fuunhofer, which I requested, that the electrical cost of industry in Iceland in general does not impair her competitiveness to control countries, which in this case were Norway, Germany, and Québec, in Canada. Apparently, this park was not attacked because it is the lowest, since there are countries in the Western world where much industry has the best place in international comparison. We have been there, and the conclusion is that we are still. The report says that the electricity cost of major users in Iceland is certainly variable according to sectores and type of energy agreements. When faced with threats, the cost of electricity is involved, for it is a major factor in the competitiveness of large users. Some companies, both in the country and abroad, enjoy variable electrical prices while others have negotiated prices that are more destructive. Substitution prices may either increase or decrease the competitiveness of the enterprise compared to others for longer or shorter periods. The changes are thus a curse or a blessing, depending on what happened. We need to stay awake and continue to contribute to the most competitive environment possible to ensure that we can continue to use the opportunities of renewable energy resources. Freunhofer's report Fraunhofer, for example, the name of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. pointed out that there is a need to consider more carefully the transport costs of electricity. In recent weeks, I have been able to analyze the proposals for improvement, which I plan to present as a case at the General Assembly. Second, as to whether it would be an environmental benefit to put big business down here in the country, the answer is short and tight: no, not at all. I don't think there would be any improvement in the environment, and I agree with that word as a matter of course. A senator referred to the words of the director of the Land act from about the year. Adding green - powered industrial activity in Iceland would significantly increase the share of coal energy and other insuficient energy sources in the production of the products so that it would not be improvement. It would be a return to climates. Third, as for concern about the limitations of further energy efficiency manifest in the Convention on Framework and Highland National Park and related issues, both the framework and the implementation of high-national parks have an impact on future energy options. That's why I say it's very important to take a close look at it from all sides. Of course, I don't think there's a medical emergency going on the offer of new electricity at least. not at this time, but it can also change rapidly because there is a possibility of a new frame plan and now a new rule of action on the treatment of wind energy that can change a great deal and I put high hopes in it. But we need to be careful not to bind our hands too far to the future, for increasing the demand for electricity plays a key role in national innovations as well as in reducing electricity prices and increasing energy market competition. We will also need a lot of energy if we are going to make a real effort to be the first country in the world to eliminate fossil fuels and divide gasoline and oil completely out of green energy. I want us to have that goal. So this context clearly needs to be kept in mind, considering the discussion that lies ahead in the winter of the Allied Council on Framework and Highland National Park and related issues. Fourth, the situation of conversation between the Straumsvík and the European Parliament is that the Ministry or the government does not have direct discussion with them, but according to the information we have, we have an active conversation and conversation between parties. Fifth, with regard to investment plans in Northern Europe, we've been paying close attention to this matter. It is an exciting plan to discuss, which has been considered for several years and has been scheduled several times. I'm not going to talk to the company about where they're going to be, but, of course, I hope that the situation allows them to come true. I think, in any case, that the situation in Iceland could not be said to have been generally hostile investments, since in recent years we have seen major investments in major users, e.g. in Straumsvík, in new plants and new sources of data. It can be noted that the increase in aluminium levels has been 40% in less than a year, which could be expected to make such investments more appealing. In recent years, we've been looking at structure here that has not been seen anywhere else. But I want it to be very clear when we're discussing all the new opportunities we're facing, and what I think should be our objective, to become first all countries to become independent of fossil fuels, it must never be about either what we now have or what we can do. It's about growing eggs in the basket. It's about increasing valuables, increasing jobs, and, in fact, improving this industry. There's no one to talk about, and most certainly I, that somebody wants to see the powerful, strong company that we have here, that scraps hundreds of jobs and tens of millions of dollars of dollars, skimmed out, and that meets. I just want to add the other because there's a chance, and that's where we've got a start.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u26	Mr. President. In many ways it has been like a hot potato in recent years, including in public discussions and particularly about energy prices. In this, there is no question that people need and should demand the natural price of the sold electricity. They will need it. The industry has had a tremendous impact on the Icelandic labour market, thus contributing to the firmness and security of thousands of people, and in many places it has had an ultimatum. In a highly active location of the Grunda firms, both national and commercial sectors are very important in the southern western part of the world. However, concern exists that the activities of these enterprises are not guaranteed for the future because of the decreasing competitiveness of energy production. The Development Society of Grundartan is now working hard on various projects in the green. An example of this is the use of heat - supply products, or even electricity production. So there are some important responses to Iceland's climate problems. This could create a number of jobs with a low environmental track or as many as 15,000 homes as possible. With carbon extracts from the emissions of the factories and with the production of non-carbon fuels, it would be possible to reduce Iceland's carbon levels by 12% or approximately 450,000 tons of carbon dioxide. It would be peaceful to hear the highest attitude. Ministers to support the plans that exist in this regard. Mr. President. Eva's unclean children and her bad practices are often mentioned at the same time, that the heavy industry is an error of time, and they need to replace the first. Let us not forget that this vital activity was established here at its time by the government's will and even by their oustings. Therefore, the responsibility of the government is great, and governments must put their speech and actions into mind. [[The president calls.]] However, we are required to be alone in the demands on climate and environment and the goals we have set for ourselves, including We in the United States by publishing the publication Responsible Way There are still many opportunities to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u27	Mr. President. Some two years ago, we were invited by the Institute of Development on a professional committee to introduce the activities of our society and businesses in the region. The visit was very interesting, and we got a presentation on the development club and Elkem in Iceland, and we examined the North World factory. I have not been a spokesman for any more large industry in the country, but I think we should do as much of the value of the current process and develop environmentally friendly solutions to energy efficiency and work as much as the local raw material. It was a pleasant surprise, then, to see how interesting things were going on in environmental solutions and energy efficiency in these communities. We were presented with a number of related tasks, e.g. the use of extra energy or gaming energy, resulting in the production of Elkem in silica, and the use of so - called green projects that were then employed, most of which contributed to improved efficiency of carbon energy and binding. A fine example is the company of Lifeland, which uses steam for feeding in its factory. There are potential opportunities for a number of spherical companies to use their energy, such as in plastic recycling, climatic development, parenchymal development, land salmon, and heat irrigation in the region. Grundartanga's Development Society is a member of a Western community, the Gulf Ocean, and the city of Reykjavík. So it is a pleasure to see that around the big business, there are a number of environmentally friendly projects that were not included in the film in the past and new projects that hopefully become reality or have already come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u28	Mr. President. For every election, all prospective members speak of the importance of SMEs. But it's just that when people get in here or as ministers, it's harder to talk to thousands of small companies than a few giant companies. So much has been the magic solution of politicians for a very long time to create jobs. But when you look at it, big business is always being done at the expense of society and nature, and it's not just a problem here, it's a global problem. A number of politicians feel that their success in secular work is tied to having taken advantage of large companies, and that is a problem. As a result, we're going for the finish, and we're supposed to stop doing this. Iceland's competitiveness must be determined, not by how much we are willing to bend down and put before international corporations and rich people, but by the quality of the economy and the quality of society. Largeness is environmental, even at best. It is only natural for us to ask ourselves, " How much real money will be left in Iceland for the sake of the industry, what is their share of the overall economy, especially when we consider all the provisions and subsidies that the industry enjoys, and how it compares with the prospects for the future of what we have sacrificed to make it possible. ' Greatness may not always have to be bad, but its existence is evidence of lack of ambition and imagination, especially in politics, and we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion about the situation of the major industry in Iceland. Largeness is an important part of Iceland's economy, one of the eggs in the basket. In some areas, the industry is a center of economic stability, the basis for a wide range of work activities in small and large companies and communities. Just as we would like to talk about the need for more eggs in the basket to strengthen our Icelandic job life, it is important not to break any eggs in the basket. The viewpoint angle for this debate is on the competitiveness of the major industry and, in my opinion, a number of factors are: these are the ingredients that we can view as energy and acidium, so the debate here is natural. Marketing conditions at any given time are important. Then there are the personnel cases, both domestic and international. It is important that working conditions attract people and access to ongoing education and all equipment so that they can. Then it's the environment. The premium of Icelandic industry has been included in the environment, and the future environment will no doubt become even more a factor in ensuring the competitiveness of the Icelandic industry. That I will do better in the second talk below. However, Covid has created these activities, such as others, in response to a global recession and accumulation of resources, but also as a result of increasing global rivalry in which environmental factors and staff management requirements are less ambiguous and state - to - state strengths are unclear. There is, however, evidence that brighter times are yet ahead, including some of them. and increasing in aluminium production.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u30	Mr. President. As we discuss the state of electricity in Iceland, the focus is changing times and energy exchanges. That's the big thing right now. Eco-efficiency in transport in general, land, seas, and air is on the move, and on continental Europe will need hydrogen to meet the demand for energy, instead of fossil fuels. All units agreed on energy policy until 2050, considering that Iceland will have been rid of all gasoline and all oils that year. That is a big change, for today we buy such fuel for about 50 billion a year. It's equivalent to the entire state funds to the entire university of the country, so things are put in perspective. At an open meeting yesterday's National Activation of new possibilities for future energy, Haraldur Hallgrímsson, a business manager, discussed energy exchange with green hydrogen as a realistic and exciting project for us, an exciting opportunity. The production, distribution and use of hydrogen are becoming competitive. Green hydrogen production needs practical, renewable electricity in considerable quantities, and we have energy. Clearly, the energy exchange by hydrogen regions can create a lot of currency and take the long way of making our country empty of carbon. But we are not alone in wondering about the winter. However, we should be able to produce it more effectively than most others and thus be in the first nations to eliminate fossil fuels. The next thing is, the demand for winter is growing fast. It is estimated to be 20 million tons in 2050 in northern Europe alone. In many parts of the continent, there is no demand for domestic production, and this should be a huge opportunity for us to build up new exports and, at the same time, have a positive impact on the environment. Indeed, there are exciting times ahead, and it is vital that we observe the future opportunities because it is time to play the offense, not defensive, when it comes to our participation in these matters for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u31	A respectable president. We're having a big business here. We know that the industry has played a major role in our society, especially in our society. in this closer environment where I have lived for decades, in Hafnarfjördur. An entire community has benefited greatly because of its establishment. At the same time, we have made good demands to reduce pollution as much as possible. But I believe this big industrial business is probably... and hopefully ancient dinosaurs. I want to agree with what was said about the winter. That is, in effect, the most exciting prospect we have. We could have a major industry that would be extremely eco-friendly, or a small business. It is for the construction of a hydrogen plant in Burfell and for transporting hydrogen into the Netherlands. Streets, buses, ships, trains, and even airplanes have begun to be hydrogenated. But what is hydrogen? Vegetables can be produced when electricity is put into water and we get clean water from the incinerators. Think of the benefits. At the same time, we may be talking about catfishing in China to produce hydrogen. We are in a special position here to be led by these things. What's most exciting about this is the production of hydrogen cars. And how is it produced? Yes, they're creating a hydrogen motor to produce electricity to keep the car moving. It's pure water. Can you get it better? I don't think so. This is the future we should focus on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u32	Mr. President. I stopped at a few points. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. He said that, of course, he didn't want Iceland selling its energy on sale. But this morning, it seems more fortunate that Reykjavík's energy deal at the North Pole has been betrayed by one of its 2008 treaties. It reveals that for this energy, which is about 11% of what PGE produces, only 2,500 dollars are available. For every minute of your life. It's sold out, and that's why you have to rebuild these electronic agreements. A company that doesn't live up to it is just too sick. Another factor that was a red thread for the prime speaker of the case was that there were a great limit to energy efficiency in existing government policies. It's just bullshit. He is now to know this senator, seated on an environment and transport committee that has a framework of 1,400 new MWs for energy efficiency. We're producing 2,500 MWs today. What kind of energy did the senator imagine in the government policy there? Now, or in a highland park with its 15 activations, which spread like holes on and off the park? What are they braking? With regard to the international context, let us not forget that we are part of an international release business system that met aluminum and other departments with a so - called leak list. This industry was given releases, which have just been under way in recent years. This is what we should be able to promote and support. If that means moving companies to other countries, neither should it be a problem if we are on the international battle against climate change. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to help other countries produce sustainable energy that's not contaminated. [[The president calls.]] Regarding China having a lot of coal cells, let's help them change it rather than use it as an excuse for giving our big power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u33	A respectable president. They're smart, in my opinion, the talks here, but most of them very good, I'm going to make comments to them in my final speech. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for a fine report she took the initiative to be brought together and made by Fuunhofer, a German company. It is a very important introduction to a basic talk that is necessary to take place and to give us more solid land under our feet. I checked the country activation presentation on the report that's fine, it's available on the company's website. It has particularly reached the cost of transport, and I would like to express my satisfaction that a minister has already stated that the proposal is very soon to be expected into the council in this regard. The report also shows that Iceland's major users, like major users in Norway and Germany, do not enjoy recycling related to carbon dioxide emissions from electricity in Europe, under a so-called ETC system. Of course, these are factors that need to be discussed now, and we need to see in what ways we can support that these companies can be powerful workers in the workforce and continue to be the most important energy buyers of European and energy companies that are so important to us. The situation remains, as we know, that the buyers of an e.g. It doesn't seem like you're ready to pay an extra fee or a premium for this greenest aluminum in the world, but hopefully there'll be a change in that soon. [[The president calls.]] I'll come to my final talk below and sum up the discussion as she sees me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. a voter for taking this discussion about the big business and its working environment. I don't think it's often over and over how important a major part of a major industry is in Icelandic commercial life, not only because of the services it has created and the valuables it has been creating for society but also because of its growth, innovation, small business, various services, etc. That reference is never too often said. V.E.G. The work programme was handled well by a minister in Iceland. I'm going to agree with that. a saying that it was a good job, and there was one factor to show, distribution or transport of energy, which we need to work more effectively. I think it's very important that we have done this analysis, and I'm also very encouraging that we open up access to energy trade agreements and can start talking about energy sales and the amount of energy we receive in a way that would be appropriate for a discussion of such important activities as this. A respectable president. No wonder those in this discussion here today are so prominent in the NorthwesternHR! Likely, no industry is as big or as big in our districts as it is in ours and so important, and so the future of the industry is very important. Here, too, several members of the Parliament have discussed the operation of the Brundartans in the field of evolution. I want to, at the end of my input, to recall that we had particular attention to developing partners in making funding for the first response to the Covid situation, where funds were given to work on the factors that can result from the operation of GDP.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u35	Mr. President. There are tremendous changes in the energy sector around the world. Iceland's competitiveness is changing at incredible speeds. The price of environmental energy sources is falling around the world, particularly on solar and wind energy, changing Iceland's competitiveness over a short period of time. For example, in the North Atlantic, wind parks have already dropped electrical prices in that area and the reduction is estimated to be only about 60% according to the most skilled experts. By the year 2030, many countries have set tremendous ambitions for emissions during that year compared to 1990. Sadly, the sad fact that Iceland is not among the most ambitious countries when it comes to reducing emissions standards, which are of the most important importance to industry, industry, and transport. There is a need for a new approach to our industrial electricity, and it is of vital importance to think creatively, not to be afraid of fast changes, and not to hold back time. Mr. President. The climate is our biggest problem of our time and of future generations. The world's energy systems play a key role in dealing with climate challenges. The representatives of the Land-activated, the largest energy company in the country, have, fortunately, spoken for new greens and still environmental approaches than before in the energy sector of this country and are well aware of that. The energy policy for Iceland presented and submitted last October has many good criteria for the environment and climate, but energy policy also shrinks from dealing with difficult and challenging political questions such as status and the future of the industry or the possibility of electrical exports. There must be a clear policy on the future of the big industry so that we ourselves control the circumstances that are turning into electricity instead of foreign corporations like Rio Tinto. As we recently saw, it was a threat to shut down the plant in Straumsvík, with almost one pen mark. A clear policy and a visual view of big business is needed not only by climate standards but also by professional policy. We need to prepare for the development of new green jobs in the country to be prepared for this revolution in electricity production, not extending to the hanging chair. [[The president calls.]] It is unannounced to the international commitments we have had in climates, but no less to the hundreds of employees working on major and secondary jobs that need to know that they are caught and that their future opportunities can change and develop but not disappear. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u36	President. It must be the objective of all of us to get the most out of our resources. Since we decided to take the major steps that are activated, we must want that to bring us the greatest benefit and worth. Fortunately, the policy has changed as far as we've been following this policy, or followed, that a large part of the resource consumption and profit we got for it was linked to the production price of one product. This is going to get a drop-level in all the economic tests, or whatever the resources are, or whatever we're going to have. Interest in green energy is increasing and it will grow even more. We have amazing opportunities as a nation in that context. Our subject must be ensuring green structure, a process that helps us to work on our climate targets, but it is at the same time ready to pay fair prices. Green development is professional. And even west of the United States, where these matters have not necessarily been the principal concern over the years, people have come to realize that green structure is the building blocks that will create most of our activities that will open their eyes to our modern times. This is our goal: How do we get the most out of our resources? It's got green structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u37	Mr. President. During my first talk, I criticized the department policy. It is only natural to ask, " What shall we do instead? ' I'd say we'd have to, in increasing numbers, look forward to being flexible, environmentally, and economicly, who serve the interests of both small and large enterprises on equal terms, but that large companies and their endless needs are not being saluted forever. The same is true of society's best interests. If we look at the 20th century, it was one large, passive fire sale in the wild all over the world, here on land, and everywhere. We have to stop this because this will cost us our planet. So there is reason to point to a proposal I made, Pirata proposal and the forward party, of the shape of sustainable industrial policy. I got it. I got it. Councilmen and others to study what we put in the motion because we need industrial policy, not industrial policy, but industrial policy, production and employment development policies, how to be sustainable, how to operate. The situation is that Iceland has no industrial policy today but a lot of different policies that don't rhyme with each other and face certain sectoral issues without any overall image of what we want this country to be. That's a problem. As a result, action at a council hall and in every part of the community has become irreprehensible. We've lost amazing numbers of opportunities for this. We have to deal with this. [[The president calls.]] Alternatively, we cannot develop our economy to be in the interest of society and nature, and both must survive.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u38	A respectable president. In my second speech on the status of the major industry, I will focus on the future competitiveness of the Icelandic industry in continuing environmental progress, continuing green innovation, green technology development, and changing staff. All of us need to calm down to the same extent, to reduce the world's carbon emissions. The Icelandic industry has access to cleaner energy, and it is important that it continues to have it. Besides, there are many opportunities to reduce carbon emissions from heavy industry. It's great news that with technology developing, it leads to a mutation in reducing carbon output from aluminium, that's at least much more my hopes, even though I have watched with excitement for some time. Alcoa and Rio Tinto have been responsible for the development of so - called inactive electrodes, which results in a cessation of carbon emissions from acidic electron analysis. Instead, oxygen is released while the force is released from the acidicide, but no carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere. This technology is expected to be useful as early as 2024, which could reduce emissions of carbon dioxide in Iceland by up to 30%. That is a unique global situation. In addition, there is a targeted search for ways to clear carbon dioxide from factory gas and to bind it to the rock with the COfix method, while attempting to reduce carbon density. Then there are the ideas of air cleaning plants, such as Carbon Iceland, which is the result of the permanent binding of carbon and the binding in circulation, e.g. in food production. With all of these progress, there is much to do in international cooperation to ensure that there is evidence of a environmental situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u39	Mr. President. I think it's safe to say that the water activation period in Iceland's history is almost over. There are simply few good qualities left, and there is great opposition in society. Fortunately, I say, but I know that there may be other opinions in this chamber. But then we are seeking others because this is the situation we are facing. There the wind is one of the most realistic solutions. An enormous amount of electricity can be achieved in a windmill area, which, in turn, leaves no tracks, wants to go back. During the wintertime, the wind is mostly reduced to the wateriest and is rapidly moving on the medium-seat greens. The efficiency of windmills and the hydropower workers we already have can ensure long - term continuous production and electrical security without following the same natural plant as that of our living quarters. In addition, rapid development in the electrical tank of windmills makes the choice even stronger. Seasonal changes in wind patterns are less effective. This need to be fully examined and, in fact, is being carefully examined. For example, regarding the related negative effects in the bird's lay zone. According to this, in this discussion of all the world's energy prices are increasing rapidly, which means that if we keep our cards right, all our employment in Iceland will enjoy competitive groundwater, which involves our inexpensive, green, sustainable energy here in the future. In view of this situation, if we have other occupations that create more jobs for each new kilogram, it is not really necessary to put the same job ahead of others in the Icelandic economy. [[The president calls.]] Our electricity is a limited resource, and we need to take care of the overall interests of the world, and that's where I am truly taking nature. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing that concerns the entire organization more than what it means in our calculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u40	A respectable president. We're still discussing the big business. As I said in my last speech, I rejoice in the metropolitan industry and in the production of hydrogens. I just want to point out that there is a great article in the Farmer magazine on hydrogen, in the latest issue, and including A crossword in the stock market. But there is another type of industry that we could also take on, and I completely agree with that, which is the production of food, vegetables. I just saw pictures of being building a large vegetable house in Mosfellsdal. This is the future. The future is that people are changing their food style. It's kind of ridiculous in our country, where we can grow a lot of money, that we're importing a lot of food. We are to be as sustainable as possible in food production. We can do this. We can activate farmers all over the country. It is basically our duty to think of sustainable production of food and also to make that way, as it happens, to go into hydrogen production. We must realize that electric vehicles, as they are produced today, are extremely polluted. The batteries are extremely polluted by the production process, and they are being reinvented by a tremendous amount of pollution. But in hydrogen cars, there's only a hydrogen motor that will power a small battery, which will then be exported. The value is far greater. This is the future, I think, because we take out the biggest pollutants. As I came to and was even the best in all of this, we will blow out clean water, even drinking water.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u41	A respectable president. I thank you for the excellent special discussion that has been conducted here today. I especially want to thank the highest. Minister for her participation and input. Of course, there's some things that have been happening here, and I have to admit that I do have strange speeches from different members of the council. To name a Smári Mccarthyr, Senator Pirata, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, an outside senator, and Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, to name some. Happily, though, from this time on, much more members of the Parliament are willing to support the nuclear industry in Iceland. It is enormously important, not just to the companies of themselves or to the energy companies, especially to land induction, but to society. The currency creations, all the companies that make and perform services in these big companies - these are all key elements in our community being able to function and be thin. Of course, that's how, and we all know it's in here, that while the value creation is not in the foreground, there's no room to improve when it comes to the welfare system, health systems, education systems, and other such. We need to keep it in the foreground to be careful of the important eggs we already have, such as the highest. A minister entered, trying to increase the number of eggs in the basket, but not at the expense of the existing ones. In this context, and my associates in the Middle East, I would like to end this discussion by saying: "I hope the corporations in Iceland have a long, powerful future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u42	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. There are some things I both wanted to repeat and come on. A major foundation in Iceland has given us a lot of things and it's about building on that foundation. We actually attended a large industry in our time, and we built a transport system that we would not have been able to do. We made a very valuable currency wage that was less of that time than it is today. Not to be overlooked are all the activities of these enterprises, i.e. All the other services, the companies that serve these enterprises and the jobs there will be. You can also keep it up, and you can't forget that we can't talk about the big business on the other hand, and then the new opportunities, but we're part of the lead in the new instruments just because of the history of the big business here, the system we have, and the energy we've gone into. There are significant technological changes in aluminium production. It's not like we don't have anything but a type of big industry that never evolved and nothing changes and there's no innovation. It's not at all. There's a lot of technical changes inside there. There's a lot of innovation inside. You are looking for ways to reduce emissions, create more valuables, renew the amount of energy available, whether it is reused in the heat, that these new electrodes are being developed that will change much, like water. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir came in earlier, and despite the lack of much general use, electricity production, etc., there is power in the development work. What I'm really saying is that it goes together. It's about growing eggs in the basket. We have a head start, and we want to keep it. We want to punch in, and it's not so we can calm down that this company will leave. At least not if we wear a climate hat because it's driven in a greener way here than anywhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u43	A respectable president. As for the next issue on the program, which continues to be discussed with partners and other partners and parking regulations, I would like to remind you of the President's words from the discussion that were delayed on December 7 of the past, saying, on the leave of the president: ▪ The talk on the 7th session is now postponed, and I have been informed by the chairman of the case that it is best called back to the committee at this point and will then be done. The discussion is postponed, and it will go back to what it says. Promissitary Committee.◯ So many of them were spoken on December 7th of the past. It is perfectly obvious, and especially of the words why. Last night, a member of the council and leading director of the case, the Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, did not understand that the case was actually going back to the committee for further discussion before the end of the 2nd. I'd like to direct it to the President to discuss it with the highest level. The president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, whether there is any reason to consider this in this context specifically and to be curious about the position of the committees to see whether they feel that there is a reason to consider the matter for further implementation before the second. End.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u44	A respectable president. I just want to say in this context that when the discussion was stopped at the time, it was requested that a guest appear before the committee and a meeting be held, which was conducted. There has also always been the possibility that the matter would be settled in the committee between 2 and 3. It did not mean to cancel the subject. It was put on hold, as stated at the time, in order for the guest to be desired to take place. It's a good idea to have a follow-up or something after 2nd. About the year, after the discussion has been concluded and formally accepted, all are free. But it would be unnatural to stop the discussion here for the second time in order to include guests and hold a meeting on this particular subject. At least I don't remember such a thing happening, but of course I can't say. This may have been done, but I just don't think it has to. The requested meeting has been held, and the case will be taken to the Committee after that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u45	A respectable president. In this context, I just have to refer to a word. The head of the trade committee Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, who was found to be the 1st traveling overseer and leading director of the Committee; the situation will not be held firmly in this particular case. A word of reason. Yesterday, a senator could not have understood beyond the understanding that divorce was possible on December 7 would not have been fulfilled with the meeting held on December 8. But I especially note that the members of the committee need to discuss this with one another. The subject is on the program for discussion. My understanding is that the work on the Committee, and I'm certainly not a member, was not on the basis of what most members of the council understood at the end of December 7.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u46	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to come up here to make it a good thing. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was talking about, that this case had been called in between discussions before Christmas. That is correct, but what we were trying to mean was that nothing was done with the case on the committee; it was not taken up by the members of the committee, Dr. StefánMár the son of Stefánsson. That is why we were amazed that it had come back on schedule without any consideration being taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u47	Mr. President. This is a matter for me to get in the way. But the fact is that the case was strictly delayed, and we have been trying to get the guest for quite a while mentioned here, and we have got him on December 8 to answer the questions of certain committees. 2nd. attended the council on December 7. It was postponed, and we know why. But it was never called into the committee. It was reserved, and it is possible to discuss a case with a committee, even though it is not included in the committee from a discussion. I've told you that the case will be taken up between the 2nd and 3rd. As we discuss these visitors further, we can have more visitors, if they will be required, and bring them up with a follow-up visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u48	Mr. President. With the help of the office, I've checked the situation on this matter for discussions that happened here at the end of the day yesterday. The short story is that although I had spoken in a certain way, and it might have been that way of understanding, when I spoke of the matter coming to committee, it wasn't. This is seen by both the review of the Committee itself and the way it understood the matter and the information about it, at the end of a meeting that would return to the Committee between 2 and 3. and that would have been prepared, and the members of the Committee would have been prepared for a review of the case between 2 and 3. But the important thing is that the case was not converted into the General registration system. That's a formal case taken up again to the committee. If it is referred to a committee, even though it is being discussed, its position is changed to the General registration system. Under this issue, it can always be seen at any given time. Either it's through 2nd. and wait there, or there's a committee, and it's the registration system that controls it. [[The president calls.]] The situation is this; hence, no neglect is being done on the 2nd. Let's just get back to business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u49	V.E.G. President. This has been an interesting discussion of a subject that in itself does not exasperate much. This may be a matter of princely concern in many respects, of whether to use fines or not to promote an even greater degree of gender in an enterprise's governments over a particular size. I readily admit, Mr President, that over the years as a politician, I guess it's more than 20 years since you've become a professional politician, you've been swinging, in fact, long before, on the position on whether sexuality and so on. Sometimes I haven't been quite sure, but sometimes I have been, so they just be honest. However, I don't think it's right to go that way, to go on too much of this guilt, and certainly not in this case when the number of women in the board is more successful. We could go faster, we can totally agree on that. It can also be wondered whether we should look to another kind of incentive to make this work faster if governments want to speed up the process in some way if we don't trust the employers or the employers to achieve this goal. As a matter of fact, I trust them to do so. It was very nice to see a paper that I keep the magazine yesterday where there were a number of pages dealing with many of the women's achievements in business or in corporate management and how much it matters today that the sexes are working together to make a very powerful career here. It was very interesting to see how many women are pioneers, and they have created a large deal of business around their ideas. They govern many of the large companies and, of course, could be more involved in the management of the largest companies in the country. There we received a clue that there's a lot of vegetation and a lot of activity. However, I believe that in the course of time, certain factors were of great importance to our equality struggle. Women's fights here in the 1970s, protests and meetings around 1975, everything that happened then, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, president of Iceland, etc. is all the things that have been extremely important in equal struggles in Iceland. We're all proud of that. On the other hand, we may not all agree on which ways to go in that fight. I think all of us would agree that the position and right of the Icelanders, the sexes, and the Icelanders should be as great and should be smart, that men have the same right and have the same opportunity to grow into influence. Fortunately, it is there today. I have often said that I have strong faith that opportunities are greater and better today, whether for women, men, or people of another sex, than they have ever been. Then we can discern whether something else is necessary to make them even more open and better. I don't think that's what this case is for. I can agree with what has happened to some members of the council that this has something to do with a prince in our constitution, i.e. the property rights, the right of individuals to create an enterprise and own a very powerful business. However, we will say that if they are successful, if they grow older, they need to meet certain rules set by the State and intend to intervene in their thinking about their company. Mr. President. I know about an example -- I'm not going to mention it here, I'm not sure that the person cares about it -- where the company has decided not to grow in spite of the possibility of it because they saw that they could not meet the requirements for equal, or as the equal status of the sex in the management of the company, without looking far beyond the group that had an interest or knowledge of the company. Maybe there could have been some way to avoid this, I don't know, get Mom, Grandma, or someone to participate in it, but that's not the goal of the law either. We'll have to look at this overall picture, Mr. President, how we've gone and how far we're going to make a deal about all this. It attracted my attention to a member of the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, spoke here, and I couldn't understand why. A senator, unlike any law set, should follow some kind of penal code. I don't think we should go that way. A senator wants to go, go to some huge punishment of the law. Of course, there are certain things that have to be expedient, I think we're most agreed on that, but do they really need to be everywhere? We live in a country where there are very uneven gender proportions in some classes. There are even health - care professionals and teachers here. I think we should try to watch this, so we'll give these good people, I'll mention back to health professionals, a chance to grow in work and get a better salary and a better one. That's what we do, I think, by further opening up the possibility that the private person could be in that operation, they can compete for the staff and offer a better offer. Of course, then, the Kingdom must stand up and offer better, and then there is competition for these active workers. I think this could be one of the huge equality issues, increasing the competition for the active groups of these great people. This is where I only mention as an example of health care professionals. Mr. President. I think very much about how the work has been on the committee in this case. One down. A member of the Independence Party, Njli Traustir Friðbertsson, gave a talk on the matter after it arrived until 2nd. I gave the talk, and I am completely incomprehensible how the senator could support the release of the matter from the committee. Of course, at the end of the trial, members of the Independence Party were on notice. As far as I'm concerned, this time it was rather late to plant a saved one. If the talk is examined and passed through it, there are speculations and thoughts and even statements that should have been discussed on the committee and found out before these fine members of the council decided to settle the matter. Then they agreed to take the matter out of the committee, and they come here for talks and ask questions that are to be answered on the committee, the Supreme Committee. President. This is very special. By permission of the president, I would like to give a few lessons in this fine talk: The Commission stated that we would want to do this further and that we would have more information to discuss on the committee. Why was this not done before the matter went out of the committee? So says, with President's permission: ▪ At that job, before it went to 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. Um, it was found to return to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. It's some sort of a follow-up. Hv. Apparently, a senator is in a hard race because he had agreed to take it out of the committee. Then the senator goes through the matter, runs it in several ways, and asks whether new laws are necessary. Then he reviews legal procedures in other countries and says, by permission of a president: Then the influence of similar laws must be attributed to the countries we normally compare with and describe the advantages and weaknesses of the ways to be considered. This has not been done in sufficient ways in the case we are here. The Senator simply says, "We didn't win the case well on the committee. " We did not seek answers to these questions. Why, then, was the matter taken out of the committee? It's completely incomprehensible, at least. President. This grand discourse continues, and I want it here, by permission of the president, to bring in one sentence. A senator says: ▪ Is the bill going to force an enterprise that has been in the same control for 20 years to change control? What's the point? Is it not among the shareholders to be alert to the leading discovery of how a government is organized? Mr. President. Hv. Friðbertsson It must have been discussed and answered on the committee before he agreed to take the matter out. I'm curious to know, there must now be a very long list of things that the lndependence Party members have come to realize right now, after they took the matter out of the committee that they need to ask questions about conversation. There's got to be some big change in course. Councilmen if they are not going to take the case back from the Committee after 2nd. In view of what has been presented in this talk, I quoted. I continue to give a talk. paritaprevir By permission of the President, the son of Friðbertsson, the Njáll of Trausti. We should avoid overindulging in legislation on these topics. It is more important that legislation is clear and that members are responsible for the implementation of the legislation approved by the Council. Therefore, lawgivers and governments are not going to take on even more burdensome jobs. It's just a little bit of premeditation... I'd like to state that one member of the Independence Party is a member of this case, and other members of the Independence Party agreed to take the case out of a committee but then have had second thoughts because the kind of crap this case has been proved, in fact, to go along with these types of fines. One member of the Parliament after another has come up to say that the matter is to be passed between the 2nd and the 3rd. While there may be some competition in calling the matter to a committee, it is well established long ago. I would also like to mention here just a talk. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son was here yesterday, a very good speech, that was just this important point that more members of the council have also raised, the right people to use what they think is best. I've said here in this public chair, and I'm still saying that the government that's now taken the community far to the left, we've seen it in health and other matters, and that those groups that put it together with socialists don't stand up for the protection of individual rights and civil rights, I think. That's exactly what they're talking about. I'd like to state, however, that I don't think any evil is behind the case with its artist. I just don't see eye to eye, and I think there's some misunderstanding in the methodology. Somehow it is that when we want to get some things through, Mr. President, you usually think of some kind of punishment first. The cost of fuel or oil is to be increased for Icelanders who have to use cars because some tax is laid. There is no way to reward those who are willing to switch to environmentally friendly vehicles, e.g. with some kind of indignity, more indignities than are today. Why not prize a company like that? for switching their large cars to electric vehicles, hydrocarbons available today, etc.? Reiming some of the cost is a positive motivation. In this case too, if we want the speed process to achieve the equations of corporate management, we can ask ourselves, " What positive ways are there in this regard? ' Is it possible for companies to use some sort of management spending if they have the right gender composition in the management board according to local legislation? Are you going to participate in the cost of the government for a certain period of time? There are several ways, if you think a little outside the box, if you want to speed up the process. It doesn't just have to fine and thus prevent an enterprise from choosing to expand or otherwise an enterprise has to somehow disappear from the thought that it is the company's private company or rights to the owner of its property. This is also a matter of freedom, an equality. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson has mentioned here, and others, this is about the equal position. The rights are perfect. No one forbids women or any other person to be in corporate governments. It does not have to change the law to create a special right or equal their rights. It would be an equal case of mine. But the thought of this matter seems to be evening. I think, Mr. President, we should try to approach that matter from a more favorable viewpoint, perhaps, with the motivation to weaponize rather than punishment. Somehow it has been the attitude of the past few years, perhaps much longer, that the Kingdom is telling us more to do things, to look at and observe more about what we're doing. I don't think that's very good. A person must be free and able to enjoy himself. Should it not be set up by some emissary committee or something? What exactly should this committee do? Would they agree to screw up here that humans can have certain opinions, even if we feel that they are pathetic and horrible and that we can't fit in with them, whether it's about the Holocaust or what men say on the Twitter? I'm worried that we're going as a community a bit far along this way, Mr. President. I just mention it here in context because the government is always stretching into our environment and controlling it more and more. The government is to know primarily that there is some setting where we are committed to certain rights and so on. After all, we have the privilege of being free to work within their rights. Of course, there should also be punishments for offenses that are truly serious, and people named traffic violations yesterday. If you drive to red light and hit people, they will be punished, of course. But it can't be compared to what I think here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u50	A respectable president. It is tempting to discuss why. A senator about what he said about freedom of expression, one of the prohibitions of hatred, the prohibition against which I am opposed, and the other about what the editorialism of Twitter is. I'm going to go in on it one minute and say that we're likely to be supporting it. A senator of the company's rights twitter to conduct his editorial policy on his own and to be able to shut down from the middle of a coup attempt. But that's not what I was going to ask. A senator, though hoping to have an opportunity to reason on the matter later on. In the minority opinion of council members. This is the opinion of Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, which makes it possible for a member of the body to impose a restriction, such as the perfunctory viewpoint, including an average - scale view. It's a moderate kind of trip that's distracting me because of what I'm doing. A senator, like any other man. The members of the council here yesterday have a little gone about what other people can do or exactly do but called for something else to be done, which I still don't know what to be. However, I also feel that the discussion has gone a little past the fact that the law has been tried without the regulations presented by the bill. So the bill is responding to the fact, and that is a fact, that the current law without a law, as these have not worked. A moderate step is not to go beyond the need to achieve certain goals, a very important thing in Icelandic legislation. I agree that moderate - scale views need to be satisfied. I just can't see how they're not satisfied with this bill in terms of the experience of the current sex-level laws in governments and the fact that it hasn't worked so far, and this hasn't happened automatically, so I'm witnessing in words. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, here by the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u51	A respectable president. I thank a senator for the answer. I'd like to say very briefly that it is important to have this discussion on just about the Twitter and the like. I don't know exactly what's in there, but we need to take this discussion, that's all right, because it's very serious not to care about who's talking about. But about what is going on here. Hv. A senator says the law didn't work, I don't necessarily agree with him. It's okay, but people think it's gone too slow and too low. Then you ask: Can this moderate thought be applied when things have started out, have walked, some say reasonably, it's the feeling that it's going well, others say it's not working at all, but can you apply it to it? I think this may be more - or no more than we need to consider, Mr. President - about the rights of individuals and whether these are moderate in nature, because there is a distinction between whether this has gone or not and whether it has gone fast enough or too slowly or all of it, versed that it is seizing into the right of men to control and control their future, things and possessions themselves. At least I think that's getting too far on that subject. Others may feel differently. You see, when it comes to the moderate, I know, I'm not a lawyer, and it's going to be more about this on the committee, of course, it's going to have to be more proof that it's a moderate measure, because things have gone up, let's just use that word, but it's certainly possible to agree that they could have gone faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u52	A respectable president. As we have seen in the review of the National Association of Iceland, this has only been a fairly rapid and reasonably successful development in some communities, so this could clearly have happened more quickly to private and social communities. I am thus made a spokesman for freedom of speech, especially when it comes to freedom of expression, and I look forward to having a closer discussion with why. A senator and hopefully others about freedom of expression, whether inTwitter or in a hate speech or in both. But when it comes to big companies, I feel more justified in setting limits because there is a certain difference between a person and a company and that there is, in fact, no limit to how large and powerful a company can be in proportion to others. One person's business and 50 companies are not just different in size, they're different because of the size difference. This does not apply to human beings. We may be twice, possibly three times - we are more or less big, more or less like the strong we are more or less powerful toward one another, and in those cases where we are not, I believe that we should balance this situation and make a difference in my belief in the authority of distribution and equality. When it comes to enterprises that are very large, and we're talking about 50 people or more that are in my opinion on Icelandic standards, it seems quite justified to set scruples or penalties, can be called, in order to enforce laws that have been passed, when it is established that these laws work on those communities that, forgive the language, the respectable president, to go to fix their own business. In view of this, it seems obvious to me that going beyond existing laws meets the requirement of moderate honor. That's my opinion. According to this, at the end of the sanctuaries, I rejoice that this will be discussed at the job station where I sit, between the 2nd and 3rd. and will participate in this discussion. I haven't heard anything that makes me change my mind yet. I have every respect for the need to take good care of this. But my opinion is that it has already been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. 50 people's business--I've worked for a company where there were just over 50 people and that in itself is not a large business. It may be big if you take the average from some group of companies, but it's not a big company. And even if 99 people were working at the company, it wouldn't be a very large business, I won't talk about if it's in competition with foreign parties who have bigger companies on the same market, etc. But they can pull it back and forth. What I want to think about - I'm not going to ask the senator because he can't come back - because of it. A senator said that nothing else had been pointed out, is the question I raised earlier: Why don't we try telling a company that if they fulfill the law within two months, one year, six months, something, then the government will pay the cost of the company's administration for three years? Create a positive impulse, so that companies can see their best in doing it. I'm not sure, however, that all companies could do this or want to do it just because of the way these companies are built up, how they own it, etc. What I'm saying is that it doesn't always have to be this punishment, I don't think. I think there's other ways to go. Hv. Porta's members have been speaking about the need to stop punishing for certain things, and it seems to me that they are going to pass through even if they are under the merit of others. But this is an example of how we should not always look at punishment. As I mentioned, there may be other ways to reach these goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u54	V.E.G. President. It is inevitable to start by referring to the treatment of this very strange case. Hv. paritaprevir Last night, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, cozteur of the case, and director of the trade committee seemed to challenge the word. The president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who fell into the pit on December 7 of the question of how the matter would be handled. Then members of Parliament assumed that the matter would enter a committee during 2nd. There was a chance that you could respond to the many comments that had been made and that there would be a problem with the treatment. It doesn't seem to have been done. There was one hurry - up meeting the following day on the committee, but the result was no one, and it has not been presented to members of the council that the majority intend to make some adjustments in this matter following that meeting. Then, all of a sudden, the matter goes up again, still as defective as it was when it was considered a reason to put it in a committee to fix up. First, I'm going to step up just one of the basic questions on this matter, the question of how it fits into a constitution. This was discussed on December 7th and then again yesterday but one of the few members of Congress who have discussed this case. paritaprevir But in the case of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the traveling overseer of the matter, and others, it did not seem to be entirely certain what was involved in the constitution and how the case was conducted, thinking that they would have to read the laws set out about these matters only about a decade ago. Still, she felt justified that such a matter, unquestioned of a constitution, would be developed in a way that would increase punishment from failure to follow instructions. A case that is not entirely reliable even to claim to be a constitution but to rely on them to suggest and fight for increased punishment for failing to comply with the case. In connection with this, the Constitution and the requirement to follow these wicked rules, it is interesting to look at an answer. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen, December 7, where it's at. A senator says, with the permission of a president: Then the goal is to ask why. One authority to see if there has been some investigation in the treatment of this case why it is now, why it is so important for an enterprise to meet this and whether the question has been asked whether it could be that way, there is some possibility that not all companies are going to meet this, that they just can't.◯ Hv. A senator continues to ponder this question, pointing out what I was coming in earlier, how strange it is to add punishment to something that humans cannot even fulfill, not to mention the doubt that makes this appear to be a constitution. I've just wondered how, in all my companies, we're going to be able to meet these conditions which, if this bill is approved, could be 100,000 k. I do not have time to fulfill. Now, I'm going to take the reality again, Mr. President, as I did yesterday, and I'm just going to proceed with the same thing. There I mentioned the company that five young women had formed after university studies about the idea they had received. They were equal in this company, 20% each. Now, let's say each one sold 5% and every 15% left, five women with 15% share each. The other one sold to 25 owner each had 1% in the company. At that time, the founders have a total of 75% in the company, the new shareholders, 25% in the small shareholders. What happens when the main meeting is held and the five women, founders of the company, the women who built it, naturally all want to be in charge? That's a choice, but only three of them can sit on the board. As a result, the estimated 1% shareholder will be in charge if he is male and another male with 1% coming to the board as well. So we're in control of the company where the biggest owners, two of them at least, can't sit in control and control the company, but those with only 1% can get into control only because of which sex they are. So let's get on with it a little bit. Suppose there were going to be so much trouble in this business that there would be fundamental differences, debates about how the company should work, and one of the owners would want to go all the way out of the way that others, take risky investments, run the Commission, and change the company in basic ways. Then the only owner, one of five, could negotiate with two of the little male shareholders, each of 1%, to take over the company's administration. So that the one in five who wants to change the company has its place, two more women have their seats, and the two colleagues, each with only 1% of the company, have their seats. The situation has become that the stakeholders with 17% share in the company have taken over their control in opposition to an 83% share of property. Mr. President. This is a reminder that this case is not only a matter of possession but also an irreverent because a business in our community is to function democraticly in accordance with property. But here I have given two examples. There are a number of other examples, of course, of what such intervention may mean, two examples of why this is illogical, invincible, and of baseline values such as ownership. Then you can wonder what kind of equality is involved, so I'll take another example, if there were 700 executives in the companies of this size in Iceland all over. Seven hundred people in governments, 600 men, but only 100 women. But the states of the board would be equal between sexes. The women would be in a lot more control, professional managers. In fact, we have seen a certain group of women advertised, since they are interested in taking such things upon themselves. Is it equal, Mr. President, if women are far more likely to get a government seat, business executives become equal, but the sex ratios are still equal in corporate management? This subject raises so many questions that we may need to discuss it a little further. But the main thing is this, Mr President: this case is illogical. That is incorrigibly, unfair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u55	V.E.G. President. We're continuing to discuss a bill to legalize the laws of partnerships, private partnership laws, social law and social law. We will discuss in particular due to the percentage of genders in control or, in other words, a penalty so that enterprises that do not qualify for gender, men and women in the management board can be expected to be fines that can be obtained from 10,000K. daily, up to 100,000 bucks. daily. This case is presented for the third time, and at its first donation, it was the two parties sending in the envelopes, the numbers of women in the business world, and the governor of the tax. The year 2018 was the year when the proportion of women in the management board with more than 50 employees was 28.8%, so it's good to keep that number in mind. When the case was next, there were four envelopes. That's right. From the women's partner in the business world. It was from an emissary, the Women's Rights Association in Iceland, and the head of the state tax. At that time, the proportion of women in the management board was 34.7%, that was 2019 C.E. Now that the case is presented for the third time, there have been seven reviews from Iceland's Allied Association, a memo from the Department of Employment, a review from Finnur Sigurðsson, an emissary, Iceland's Women's Women's Rights Association, Podium, and so on, the Skagitti. In order to clarify the matter further, the following members received a request, and I'm only going to mention those who didn't send in the envelopes, who did not respond to the call, Deloitte ehf, Ernst, and Young Inc., and I'm asking for favors of it, the highest. President, that we don't have any Icelandic names for these partners, the Fégment of Professional Drivers, the Fégment of Women's Business Business Association, didn't send in a review now, used in other sources, Fégment of legal accountants, Copenhagen, KPMG, Iceland's Women's Women's Association, Iceland's National Department of Pension, PricewaterhouseCoopers ehf., Industrial Association, Señorabanski Iceland's Office, Communications Association and Service. All these companies got to themselves requests they didn't respond to. Admittedly, it makes you wonder whether these communities are connected well with their viewing of this number, 34.7% in 2018, and a plan that is virtually in port, and that is why they would not have shown any interest in the situation so far. The evidence shows that guests were introduced to the committee, and then I am talking about when the case was being presented today. They were from the Department of Business and Development, from the office of Equal Opportunities in the Ministry, from an emissary, from the Taliban, from the Women's Business Association, and from the Women's Women's Rights Association. This can be read in the front majority of the committee. It is not specified that Professor Stefán Stefánsson had the committee, but he certainly did, and he also does not find his comments under a review list, which tells me that she was sent by e - mail. It will only be said that there is no great or great need or at least not a great interest in enforcing guilty laws, and I am content to believe that this is because of good progress. This was also shown in the question of why. Yesterday, members of the council would have made the situation the way it is, which is said to be 34.7% in 2019. I know that the head of the professional trade committee is in those words calling for information about the present situation. It might matter, and I sure hope the number went up. This shows that it seems to work to keep the discussion alive. But if we assume that this was going well, as stated in the National Association's review of the European Union, pretty fast, putting it in, we've not added a pact that says that companies will be made pay from $10,000. and up to 100,000 bucks. a day or not because governments have used some special motivation to achieve this success. However, it would have been better, or it would have seemed better to me, had the government used some impulse to achieve sexual equality. I recall in his own time, when the commission was due to be equal, that at first he was meant to be an incentive for businesses and institutions. It was good that we could look up to the companies who would introduce this equally rewarding standard. It was supposed to be a catalyst, but it became an obligation of some kind. I'd like to call this obligation because gradually we'll regret, as we go down to the company's headcount and institutions, that it will be more expensive for these same companies and these institutions to introduce this standard. I'm not against the equal wage standard at all. I just had a little crush on him because he was an inspiration, and it made me a little proud that I knew it was an interest in companies to introduce this standard. Actually, I think it took more than half a million toll managership, and I think it was about 700,000 bucks, to infiltrate the situation. There is now a well - established organisation and with them larger in the country, and it may well have been the trade manager's job system, which makes it easier for the job to focus on making jobs instead of looking at characters. The value of those who earn it is determined. On the other hand, if we look at less of the non-programmate enterprises, they will have to go to expense to meet this law's goal of the same salary status as it will cost them dearly. If they don't introduce the vacancy - now it's been set down on dates and years, when certain types of companies and institutions should have installed it - fines have been set up to 50,000 dollars. daily. What's more, I cut by one. A senator mentioned earlier that we were discussing a business of 50 remuneration and that would not be least, but the equal wage company and institutions with 25 employees. They are ordered to implement the situation, and not enough, but these companies and institutions need to renew their testimony every three years. It will probably cost, and it's certainly true that people only have to throw them back into the situation to see how things have worked out. But I'd still like to point out that now, when we know that business, especially less business, is struggling with all their fees of pay they have to pay, that this will be added. I'm afraid to say that now the government could create an incentive for this project and say that a company will be allowed to delay payment or they'll be applying after five years, but there's probably another discussion. I'd still like to argue that the motivation had been preferred and that it would have gone faster with the equal salary standard. We know that companies and institutions have applied for every time, but it has been postponed when these same parties should have introduced the vacancy. But okay. I just thought it was important to get in. I don't object to pay equals, but at the same time, people may find it difficult to get a raise from employers. This is an example, and I only looked for two studies that I found that showed the conclusion that governments seem to hide behind this equally pay witness and therefore do not want to discuss pay cases. Somehow people are bound to both shoes, and they do not want to try to outdo their pay. Therefore, we can agree that the equally paid witness thus seems to contribute to the removal of this amount of pay. Those who outlast them are not rewarded, and as I said, research points in that direction. If we go back to what we're talking about today, then in the opinion of the greater part, and I thought it was a bit cool to read it, with permission of the president: In view of the nature of the situation, the role of individuals with neutral genders may hardly be covered by a certain minimum percentage of men and women, although it is unlikely that this group will be large in comparison with the number of women and men. However, it is suggested to add laws that require that the rule on the minimum proportion of women and men does not preclude the appointment and order of persons with the registration of neutral sex in committees, councils and government of the government. Well, I'll just say, "That's what I'm gonna say. " Yesterday, I asked a messenger of this case into this because I think it's reversed, and I realize that it can be difficult to start creating one of the classifications again to equalize everyone's right. I understand, too, that the greater part, at any rate in their opinion, has encouraged the Ministry to review the laws of the law that stipulate the percentage of each member of the board and that the wording of the laws will be updated, including taking into account the laws on sexual autonomy that allow individuals to register their sex as neutral. I think it's a small amount of payment because it's taken into account that this group is not exaggerating. Yes, it is. Neither were there even a great number of women who came to become members of the public market and when I am at the point where I continue to see that this bill, which is particularly responsible, is not quite in harmony with today's situation. There's a code on neutral sex registration, we've agreed on it by law, and then I feel that if the committee is going to handle this case in this way, it's a legacy. I also think it is very important that we maintain that the ratio between men and women is 34.7% in 2019, and I especially rejoice that the situation goes back to normal. Business committee. I am very happy to hear that the committee is going to get the latest figures, whether the situation is still that the proportion of women is 34.7%, just as it was in 2019, when the target is 40%. I just don't like the idea of setting a guilty law at all. I would have preferred to get the motivation to achieve this goal, and then it will be an incentive for a company to see the benefit of maintaining a constant share of the sexes if it is to be a goal in itself. I still don't know if I feel that it should be the very objective that matters. Coming from school, I know that children have their own field of interest, and it's not as simple as people want to be. I give myself as a woman much for caring for welfare and education, and for what people call the soft stuff, while I have eight men who take care of the rest. I'm very grateful because I'm less interested in it. When our party was put together, all members of Congress were completely satisfied with what committee they wanted to sit on. What I might end up saying here is that we have different interests. At the same time, something else cannot be eliminated, so I rejoice that this matter will return to committees and hope that we will arrive at a reasonable conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u56	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, I hope that the committee will arrive at a more reasonable conclusion, although we may be able to discern the best outcome. I'm a little bit thinking about it as a little bit. A senator briefly covered his talk about people's interests being different and that they had some sort of statistical context, I would like to say, to their gender. Well, that's right. But let it be in between itself. This made me think because I come from a sector that over the years has been completely excessively male, computer, software, and that sort of thing. It has been a blessed change for the better over the last few years, and many of us in the sector have wondered if there is something about the nature of software that attracts men more than women. I can see no better, not only from conversations with other people in the sector but also from observing how this good business is developing in the right direction, that what has been born was the attitude that women receive and received in the sector, the attitude which the men then have, as soon as the discussion is opened, recognized, and even complained about themselves than for some reason, biological or other reason, it seems to be easier to work underneath. It's because of these reasons that I'm overwhelmed by the fact that we can use some possible natural and statistical difference in the interests of the sex as some form of objection to what seems to be a statistically specific subject. I can't see in the light that we can, in fact, simply get involved, that women, men, and people of other genders have different interests just by reading statistics. [[The president calls.]] There are more factors than the field of interest that cause discrimination within each sector according to less experience. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for the answer. Now we could start the discussion, that's interesting. That's exactly what this is, that there are more than sex that determines where people want to be. We can also say that there are other factors to decide whether to be where - now that I have some thought that may be difficult to grasp. But I remember talking about women and electric activation as an example. They've been floundering within electrical activations, and it's often said to me: Well, electrical activation is, so it's not so hard work anymore, so fine movement is so much. And that's why women are in there. If we speak attitude, e.g. With gender, I know a few men who have picked up a nurse in Iceland. They have not always had easy moments in a nurse. I'd like to say that it's more difficult for men to go into traditional women's classes than for women to go to male castes because the women are somehow being pulled out of it than if men go to women's class and are even looked at as being so they must be something funny, that there's something wrong with them being doing this kind of work, I can name a nursery teacher. We know that even now there are other men in high school and college education, but they don't really see anything in play schools or at the bottom of high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u58	A respectable president. I just kind of got all my dog and cat time working in a man-made business, and I'm a man myself, so I can't decide whether it's harder for men to try to get women's work, normal women's business, or vice versa. I just don't know it, at least not out of my own experience. But as for me, I have found it hard. A senator agrees with this, and it turns out that just in those sectors where the roles have been considered to be part of the tradition, there are sex more than other genders, that this is exactly where the diversity must be introduced and this practice, for example, to have women in the management of a software company, although 90% of programmers at any point was men. That's exactly where we see it, that it's a business where statistics seem to tell us they're suitable in some way for the second sex. We need to break up. But I think that's a reason for the bill. As a result, the bill and the law concern companies with 50 or more employees. Control is not the same job as maybe a job where the workers themselves are working in and out again, I can take an example from the software sector. The person does not necessarily have to be a programmer to be the director of a software company. It's very different kinds of jobs. It will help if the person has insight into it, perhaps some small experience. But it does not have to be a wallier to be in the control of a walled company that is 50 or more people. It doesn't have to be an accountant to be in the management of an accounting company of 50 people or more, but it's a very serious matter to let these laws apply to a firm of a certain size for these reasons. I understand the view of small companies where the injury people have to choose is small. [[The president calls.]] I don't see that it's very small when we're talking about a company that thinks 50 employees or more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I can totally understand what's going on. A senator is saying, we have to break things up to get more ideas and create fertile soil for what would be best for a company or a partner. What I think is this is that the third time you should try to make a guilty plea. We're talking about a company that isn't necessarily under the government, we're talking about a free market company and I'm wondering if the government should control how their partner's gender structure is guilty. That's what I think is doing. If we talk about interest areas, I think it'll be a lot better if you're a head of a company with a walled mind, you have any idea what it means to be a wallier, rather than if you just came in and got a position in the management of that company on grounds of your sex. I can't see that there's an Alpha and an Omega in what we're talking about, plus that I don't think it's right to make fines. I'd rather watch a lot more if we were to follow that way to keep things going. I repeat again that we must wait for these latest numbers to know what the situation is now, to know where we're going and what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u60	Mr. President. We continue to discuss a bill as a song about changing the law on partnerships and other things. It is mainly about wood laws that are expected in the bill to be passed into the laws where the companies that do not fulfill laws about the sex ratio in governments will be allowed to pass a date. Since my first talk was abandoned, I was discussing the days'fines, mostly about their sum, where I pointed out how high they were, up to a hundred thousand dollars. a day that could be placed on these organizations that do not see to it that the governments are set in proportion to gender. I pointed out that the fine could study 3 billion. K. per month. There's no discount here, Mr. President. It's got a lot of stuff going on. The employment committees realize what we're talking about here, what kind of sufficiency these are and how burdensome can they be? The majority of the committee, seven members of all categories, even three o'clock. Councilmen from the Independence Party sign the committee's opinion. In fact, do what. Senators of the Independence Party for a moment. Central Party senators at the moment. The job committee has been trying to straighten this case out because the bill is going to the edge of the bill in cutting down the rights of property and self - determination of men with money and possessions in some kind. Business people are being led into situations that are not self - centered. It is not a matter of personal choice who or who they choose in the management of a society they have placed their money and effort in. They don't have a choice. There, the government is involved when people are involved with it. The State expects these owners to vote for parties in some form of sex. This is where people's real rights are being handled in these companies. They don't have a choice. Well, I'm pretty sure I think that this is a very close area of property here. We're talking about forcedness. We are not talking about government recommendations. We're talking about the forced control of the government, and the use of fines is forced. Governments who monitor these associates are empowered to force these things into doing so by making high - quality schemes for money. Let us take a little closer to that authority for a day's fine. In the bill, there is no law to press charges every time against governmental authority if it is decided to commit a day's fine. This decision would not be delayed, which would have been too natural, when you look at the interests of the people under it and cooperate with the legal rights of the Constitution. So here, then, must be looked at the general rule of the administrative law that charges no legal action at any given time. This isn't normal, Mr President, it's not normal at all. Did the committee not think of this, or was it so urgent to advance this dream project, that it was not taken to the right or to the left? And what about the access warrant? This is where the government is authorized to go directly to a mission. It's in there called a direct access warrant. In fact, governments are giving this sought - out economy that all creditors dream of having, of being able to go directly to the debtor. They have nothing more to look for than to go directly and ensure their demands on the property of the company. Dearly, this action will not delay anything. [[The president calls.]] Did not giving the administration to the government in this particular case mean that there might be a great deal of talk on the committee? [[The president calls.]] Didn't that come up for you, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to start by repeating what I had in my first speech yesterday, and then again in a discussion about the President's conference board before this discussion began, that there certainly would be a better way to understand that this matter would be a further process. A job committee rather than looking for a trip between the 2nd and 3rd. Just as it's heading right now. The case is so uncontaminated, and there is so much information and information that we senators, who are not at large. Business committees, they don't exactly have access. It is now time for a guest to appear before the committee during the 2nd. has been running. Because of this visit, there is no evidence available to us generals, and we are now told that Már Stefánsson's viewpoint on the matter will be taken into consideration by the committee between 2 and 3. But what must be kept in mind in this context is that our sessions of talks are very limited in the 3rd district. In a sense, then, all discussion of the depth needs to take place at 2nd. That's why I'd like to once again criticize that we're here at a council hall discussing this matter, as fragile as it is, and ill prepared. We cannot take the discussion with the information and signs it calls for and deserves. But it's just as it is. The position of both president and executive and president of the Committee is now, and it will be interesting to see how the commission manages to unwind the greatest problem of all. In the context of the committee, a minority of the committee's members are in question. The members of the Central Party, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson, are the members of a non-employee council member who is next able to connect with critical points that concern the constitution and rights of it. Of course, it's below all the caves that the case is actually supposed to come through 3rd. from a job station with the limited speaking period available to members of the Parliament and that this core tool, introduced by Stefán Már Stefánsson, was not to be torn into the committee's section and its views on the subject on December 8, according to current information. I'd like to pass on a few of the bill itself. As I did this yesterday, it's about changing a few laws; laws about partners, private partnerships, partnerships and partnerships. In support of the case, special references are made to the arrangements for these issues in Norway. However, the reality of what we see today is that this argument is not water - related. The situation of these cases and treatment is very different from what is suggested here in Norway. It speaks of a registered market company. Those who know that when a company is undergoing registration there are several criteria for information, review, financial information, how to announce change and other changes, a multi-item. It's certainly one of them. It's been taken over by sexuality. Company, at least Those who are recorded in the market after those rules are imposed on knowing how to do so. But if someone in Norway wondered about implementing a rule like this on the entire job life to companies with more than 50 employees, then it is obvious that the idea was choked, disintegrated. She did not succeed. Of course, such an idea cannot be made, since there is no sense in such an presumptuous prejudicial thinking, since we members of the council in this case would like to take part in how people handle their possessions to the extent available in this case. It's a very, very revulsive idea. It's some high-class social approach. People who are truly concerned about equality are not particularly concerned about the number of women or men in governments that meet from time to time. There are much more urgent and urgent issues for much larger groups and groups that may be at the lower limit or below the centre of the income pocket. There's an opportunity to make significant improvements in equality, e.g. by enabling large groups of women to negotiate with someone other than the state in terms of their wages and terms. Of course, we should view it as equality to increase freedom in health and education, and so forth, so that teachers and those who have educated themselves in various aspects of the medical profession can negotiate with others other than the state's viewpoint. This would support the remuneration of their groups. We should try to follow in order to talk about the things they are and to put energy and attention to the issues and issues that work and produce some results. This strange saying of the executives in private companies is just for show, like so many things to say and do in these matters, as is the case with other issues that have become often compared to religions, which are environmental and climate issues. The report by the bill shows that evolution in terms of the number of female directors was that the proportion of women was progressively reaching out during the past few years. There's some special enthusiast that makes it necessary for us politicians to step into the last records when things are so slightly recovered and if there is a problem, they resolve themselves. But this year, according to the President's permission of 2019 C.E. ▪ In 2018, the proportion of women in corporate management was more than 50 employees 33.5% and increased only by 1% in 2019 to 34.7% of the executives... However, this is approaching pretty fast the 40% mark on this subject and is the basis for setting up a series of senators, wanting to enact a specific penalty, a legal statute, to achieve that goal. Is it not quite the same, and especially now, in these last and worst Covid times, where quite a lot of companies have a lot of money to protect their operating standards? Is this what we want? Is this the message the General wants to send to the company in between large areas of the home? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u62	Mr. President. As long as we discuss this matter, there will be new features, including the one that appeared this morning at the highest level. The chairman of the council countered that what he had said on the Presidentship of the Generals of December 7, U.S.A. had he not really meant it, as he said it, or that he did not mean what he said from the throne of December 7th of December. There is no other way to take what he said in answer to this issue this morning. This, of course, is shocking, but the key point is that the matter that such a person has not received a careful treatment is not. It has been noted that it is therefore necessary to discuss it in the 2nd. ... becauseabout3rd. about bills you're going to have little time for discussion. This is why 2nd is used. to try to clear things up for better use and try to act if there is a problem. That is exactly what has been experienced in this discussion, i.e. to prevent the continuation of bad practice in the case, where nothing is done with the last guests in the case, etc. There is no doubt about it. A professional health committee would have needed more time before the case would come on again. Since December 7, the employment committee would have needed more time to get more guests and to consider the matter better. It has also been found that since then. The official of the case began a struggle to adopt a special punitive policy in business affairs that had not been successful in meeting these conditions, as the bill goes on, has the ratio of women in corporate governments discussed here from 28% up to 35% in two years. We don't have information from 2020. Surely, then, these matters have gone without the use of money, and it harmonizes with what we have said in our discussion, that things have gone into the right direction, and will eventually come to what we want to see. But it is also a matter of the example set in the bill. If we want to get some compensation, whether in equality or in any other way, are we going to adopt a contingency in it? There are a lot of other opinions that can be considered that happen both in corporate and elsewhere, are we going to adopt this kind of criminal policy? It has seemed to me that there is a will, at least somewhere in this council, to reduce the joy of what is called a crime, and this is what it is called. At the same time, there is an increase in criminal joy and a court of criminal rights. I don't think it is necessarily to be successful in this way. There are countless other cases of everyday life in this country that have moved toward better directions despite their plans and will not have been carried out by punishment. The environment of a company in Iceland is quite complicated. The shrimping phase is gone. There's a complication of starting a business, there's a complication of running a business. There are many ways to earn money. There's a lot of fees. I remember, for example. not, for example, how many permits it takes to open one hair shop or a small restaurant, a huge number of which are extremely complex and complicated. So if we're going to add a new punitive policy to the complexity that already exists in Iceland, we'll simply lose a competitive position in my opinion. Yesterday I had under the expert magazine, which was published by a woman's professional partner, and it's a rather long story about the success of women reaching all over the business without the presence of threats or money or punishment, as I traced yesterday. I simply have great faith in women, Mr. President, and we have the Middle Class. I simply believe that when women offer positions of responsibility, it has not always been because of various circumstances, their powers will be sought and used, of course. I simply have the great faith in women that they themselves will show how companies thrive and thrive when they are at top positions or in the leadership of companies or corporate governments. In the past two years, I think that the proportion of women in business management, of this size, has increased so much as I traced earlier. I don't see any other reason, Mr. President, but that trend continues and the point we're talking about the need to bridge, and we're going to have to bridge, and we're gonna have to bridge now. But I still think so, Mr. President, what course this case took and how it worked here at the council. In general, I believe that we should be careful with legal procedures and that we should be careful with the treatment of Congress. A number of times, we middle - class members have taken up a discussion on matters that have been unconcerned and unconcerned. This has sometimes called for a considerable discussion, but this discussion has always worked, Mr. President, to the extent that people outside these walls are becoming more aware of the issues we have handled. I can mention, for example, the transport between a rural partner in the capital area and the state that improved greatly because we acted. [[The president calls.]] I think it will be the same with this case, Mr. President, that if it gets done better and it works better, it will be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u63	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm going to say one more time to react a little bit to the speaker of the case yesterday who wanted to deny that the position of women in business governments and elsewhere is because we had such laws on sex ratios and laws against it. I'm gonna allow myself to disagree. The reason why the other women'situation has changed dramatically is that we have made room for all to share in professional activities. We no longer live under the circumstances where husbands and wives had to share in the work of training their children and the establishment of a family. Rather, they are the circumstances in society that all, or both of them, can go to a job market. Of course, when women are heading for a workforce, their ratio is growing steadily, whether in the management board or in other jobs where they choose a setting. However, there is a tendency for the sexes to choose a different setting. Women are, in fact, overwhelming in the largest labour market classes, such as in education, in the health - care system, a very large labour market. So it develops that men are then in more part somewhere else, according to the nature of the case. In corporate management these differences have been greatly reduced because women have studied the articles that are suitable for their work. They're actually getting more of that kind of education today. Then it happens on its own that their share increases in the management, executive positions, other executive positions, both in the state or in the private sector. However, it is a quest against the free society that obligatory individuals to have people of either sex, away from everything else. Economics are always choosing the most suitable and available people. It is the nature of the free market because your property is yours and the risk is yours. Of course, such bill is just a clump, and it will be, so it will probably need a man's right after ten, 20, or 30 years. I'm not interested in that any more. People just have to pick up where they think they're useful and their talents are most useful. This kind of punishment, an intervention, when governments decide how private companies, private people, their responsibilities, will not benefit anyone. There is a bad community of nature, although, of course, one can say, "I've achieved this wonderful achievement, there are just as many of each sex in the administrations of all companies. " This has other consequences that are bad, for mental, and for values. What we're supposed to do is clear the course so that all individuals, of any gender, appearance, race, etc., have equal possibilities. Then the free community sees where the mind is headed, etc. These are key elements. But this bill still hurts as much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u64	Mr. President. I have very much to say about this matter beyond what I've already said, it's hardly a matter of knowing where to begin. But I'm going to start with something else that I find interesting in this case. That's a word of the highest order. A president earlier today, since he was explaining the situation here at the council, how did it happen all at once to be revealed here at the Senate Hall without officially decommissioned? A professional health committee. If this matter is considered, it was discussed on December 7th. of 2nd. and after a few discussions and indications that things were going to be done on top of the situation. The president of these words at the end of the discussion: ▪ The talk on the 7th session is now postponed, and I have been informed by the chairman of the case that it is best called back to the committee at this point and will then be done. The discussion is postponed, and the case goes back to what? Promissitary Committee.◯ V.E.G. President. The person who spoke on December 7 has come up here again today in a talk about President's conference board in order to explain why this case suddenly appears here on the program, literally like a thunder from the sky. In short, he says that with the help of the office, he examined the situation. So the president says: ▪ The story is that although I spoke up in a certain way, it might have been that way of understanding, when I spoke of the matter coming to the committee, it wasn't. This is seen by both the review of the Committee itself and the way it understood the matter and the information about it, at the end of a meeting that would return to the Committee between 2 and 3. and that would have been prepared, and the members of the Committee would have been prepared for a hearing between 2 and 3. But then he says, and that's what I may be mainly pointing to: But the important thing is that the situation was not changed into the General registration system. What's going on here, Mr. President? The President is in charge of a meeting on December 7, informing the case that it will go to the Committee. It's not done from the Committee, it's already been found, but it's not part of the committee formally, and then it came back to the council hall yesterday. It's normal to ask why it's seated. Then comes this explanation that, despite the words of the president of December 7, the case was recorded in such a way that it is considered safe to assume without the removal of the committee. This is strange and makes me ask, "Who is it who is in charge of anything other than the President of the Generals?" Who is in charge of the General Assembly other than the President of the Generals, the Generals' program, pointing matters in and out of discussion? Who's that other than the President of the Generals? From the top words. It can be understood that the registration of the case, which says that some employee has made a decision not to register or record it in any way, is of utmost importance. No matter what the President says. This is as clear an explanation as possible because, of course, failure to write in any way would not be appropriate. That's when what President decides in the President's chair is true. Of course, Mr. President. This is the most ridiculous and pathetic explanation I have ever heard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u65	A respectable president. I'm moving out here in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, head of the Economic and Business Committee, a committee opinion with a bill modification to legalize financial criteria. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the National Bank of Iceland. There were reviews from Arion Bank and Federal Bank. The bill suggests that the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2016/1011 from 8 June 2016, as amended by the Regulation of the European Parliament and the 2019 Council, will be granted legal values in this country. The first Regulation is referred to as the Regulation and the second measure of climate control. The report of Iceland's Secret Bank contains comments that are technical. Having agreed with the Ministry, the majority contributes to a number of technical changes and suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes available on this committee and are, as I said, technically. Under the heading, write why. paritaprevir Óli Björn's Kárason, Jólmur, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Braun the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u66	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on a bill for a ship's fee. It is good to relate that there was not much discussion about the bill, and members of the committee agreed that it was the best case. What may have been the main topic was who had the pressure of a ship's charge to do and who became small talk about it. It came to the conclusion that the tax, rather than the Grouping Room, was right. Such a view was not agreed with the actual appendage of the currency of the same Group and was reasoned that this arrangement was unchanged. As indicated in the Committee's opinion, changes are made, which are mainly technical and do not require explanation. Under the writings of Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Brubbur Níelsson, Jón Valdimarsson, Bordiísdóttir Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þórsson Þrsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u67	Mr. President. I present the Committee's opinion from a health committee on bill to legalize the conversion of CDC, which has been discussed in the Committee. This case has been presented to my knowledge of a very good subject on the committee, and many came to that matter. It is heartwarming to say that all members of the committee have contributed well to this committee and thus make sure that it is fully agreed on by the committee in all principle and by all members of the committee. This is important, Mr. President, especially when considering the measures taken in the treatment of disease problems and the work being done in a pandemic due to crown virus in recent times is important. Then it is well known that the Council Committee will take the necessary time as well as the members of the committee work together to find the landings needed to make the situation as well as possible and, with the greatest agreement, in the council. The bill suggests that changes to current disease prevention laws are aimed at clarifying the laws of the laws on government protection, including protection measures. Based on available experience with the current pandemic crown virus. The subject of the bill is to explain these laws and legislation and to rely on the proposals of a health minister who was commissioned to negotiate a plan for changes in social protection laws that would be considered specifically by the laws of the law on official DG regulations and government authority rights. Using a letter, dated August 26, 2020, the prime minister requested that Dr. Páll Hreinsson assemble an opinion on government control measures. As a result, Páll returned a report to the prime minister and to the work group mentioned earlier, much of it was supported. In the opinion of Dr. Páll, the above - mentioned authority documents were addressed by a carer and health minister, taking into account documented and unsolved principles of administrative rights and human rights regulations in constitutions and international contracts. It also takes into account the interaction between the authority of the police and the other authorities in order to carry out such measures. The bill, as mentioned earlier, is intended to deal with the situation in society today and to sharpen the health - care minister and carer's authority to manage and reduce the spread of infectious diseases, such as Covid-19. In discussing the matter, the commission received a number of reports and was contacted by medical and curative experts, lawyers with expertise in administrative and administrative rights, as well as stakeholders. It is proper to say at the outset that we are dealing with certain changes in the treatment laws, but here, Mr. President, this is not the full reexamination of the social laws that have been called, and I will only enter it later in my speech. This is shown in the next chapter of the committee's opinion. The committee found that there were details to be clarified, and later the reviews also show that there are certain points that may especially need to be looked at at at at at. The Commission agrees with these views, but it also points out that in the middle of a pandemic, it may be normal to make the changes in disease prevention laws that are considered necessary to explain authority, but it is then possible to use the experience of the epidemic and, as it has been said, to run the disease laws once before we have an overall review of them. That's what we're going to do. However, the committee reiterates that it is important that this global review begin as soon as possible, wind up in this project as soon as possible, and not drag it too long. There are certain factors already that need to be revised, and they can be applied right now, even though not all aspects of the event may be fully understood right now, but many are available. There was a great debate in the Commission on the value of administrative law and how the treatment laws relate to that law and are actually related to the basic rights that we as citizens of this country see as we have. This discussion is of great importance, especially when it is noted that the laws of the disease limit in a certain way of rights, certainly in a temporary way, as citizens, in a sense self - determination. Therefore, it is so important that they are examined in this context. There is good reason to thank especially for the discussion that discussed these subjects on the committee. This deepened the discussion and undoubtedly helped more members of the committee than I had to consider the matter in a somewhat larger context. I think it's very important. 12th degree. The bill is proposed to change the 14th floor. The Act on action due to the risk of spread of infection by individuals. Is even suggested for 5 mg. The article will state that prior to the decision of the administration for an operation, an attempt should be made to cooperate with the partners on appropriate and moderate measures. If such co-operation is not achieved, a disease - control doctor will decide to disqualify a court order of law. It's set for 6 mg. The article will tell you that a psychiatrist can take the administrative decision orally if he feels that a delay in handling a case is dangerous. A review of the legal committee of the legal body is suggested to be taken care of in the legal text in which the administrative law applies and when it does not apply. Government law should generally be followed regardless of whether a administrative decision is written or verbal. It is therefore wise to refer to the Law's handling guidelines for administrative legislation and to what extent, when the decision to isolate or disinfect and delay handling a case is considered dangerous. Obviously, such a decision may need to be made in a very short time, and it is unlikely that it will be practical to comply with all government regulations, such as the rules of investigation and protest. A report by the Ministry of Health points out that according to the word "12. " does not have a administrative decision in the sense of 2 mg. 1st par. administrative legislation can work with the partner on appropriate and moderate measures. However, it is clear that, according to Article 2, when a ruling decision has to be taken, it must be taken into account. Section 12. The bill, the government law. The Ministry notes in his memo that it was not right to eliminate the legal security laws that the government laws provide to citizens in these matters despite the need to make decisions quickly and with few resources, i.e. That he should take the right of the city, because there is no will of any man. The rules of the administrative law are generally appreciated, and their demands vary according to their individual decisions. In this way, there is less demand for an investigation in situations where there is an important rate of speech and vice versa. In view of this, the Commission does not believe that it would be a reason to respond further to society's comments on this aspect of the matter. The committee stated that there are exceptions to governmental decisions taken orally. In accordance with the careful management practices, these decisions should usually be confirmed in writing as soon as possible. This is very important. The committee recognizes by the wording of the law that oral decision on the basis of it will only be made when it is urgent to take immediate action, and if the decision is delayed, it may be dangerous. There was also a lot of discussions in the Committee on Study responsibilities and an average evaluation and no wonder. I'm referring to the fact that this is where we deal with the link between what we would call the rights of our citizens and that we are defending the public from infectious diseases. The nature of the matter said that it is very important that every decision to prevent disease prevention is moderate. I think it's safe to say it here, Mr. President, that there's no big disagreement about this on the Committee. However, I'm just as sure that there may be a big difference between the committees what they call an average coin at any given time. It's okay. It's okay. It is normal and even has simple things, such as a sense of speech. I believe that the committee agrees well with this, even though there may be some differences of opinion. The committee agrees with the opinion that such measures need to be taken very carefully and that it is important that governments, no matter what their nature, never go beyond what is absolutely necessary at any time. It is also clear that the action proposed in the bill should be removed as necessary, or according to the events, to offer to others and to reduce the intensity of the situation in which they called relief. The proposed actions in the bill and authorized by the rules of rules on the basis of these are generally short term, compared with other government rules. As regards the evaluation of the rightness of the decisions made by the government at any given time, the Committee considers that the bill clearly requires the equality and that the measures proposed will be made only after evaluating whether less measures will achieve the same objective. The same is true of decommissionation. This is very important in view of the community discussion that has been involved in this epidemic. In my opinion, governments have endeavored to explain their decisions, whether we call them in a public way, as in the information meetings of the trienium called or through information on websites, etc. All of this is very important for the public to feel that it is not going beyond the basic goal of protecting the lives and health of the citizens. In terms of the justified use of measures against certain sources, groups, or professions, this also results in the clear requirement of the Constitution for equality as well as documented and unregistered principles on the average of decision making. This needs to be there. Government average estimates should always be carried out in a way to determine whether the measures taken conflict with the rights of others and also to determine whether less measures will achieve the same level. They also consider it important that, as possible, society's overall interests, including economic, social, and public health issues, be taken into consideration. At the same time, objective standards will be considered as appropriate, and the actions of the government will be as predictable as possible at any time. A discussion of objective standards was carried out on a certain aspect of the committee, but there are certainly certain factors that are very difficult to set on a measure. How much is it, for example? that one suffers from a certain illness? It is extremely difficult to appreciate, since it can vary so much from patient to patient, as an example. In fact, the scales and standards will always be much more gross, much more measured, how many samples must be taken, used by some hard standards, something that can really be measured. However, since this is possible, the Commission points out that objective measures are used as appropriate. The Commission recommends that the decision taken on the basis of the cross-cutting process always be met, and it is important to emphasize it, on the above average judgment, and that they will be relieved rapidly and effectively as possible. It was a conversation with the committee, and it may not have been strange because transmissions such as these have been practiced in Iceland may have been one of the main factors involved in the epidemic. The concept will be defined in the law, if this bill is a law. One means that infection can be used, and this has been of great importance and has been shown to be effective in monitoring the spread of the crown virus and in many cases, preventing further spread of infectious diseases. Thus, it is a single link in a very important chain, and it is important that the authorities have this option in their toolbox, as it were. It was discussed only with the medical professions, including the medical professions. followed by a review of the Iceland Medical Association. The committee points out that it is important to try to make practical use of knowledge where possible. The hospital staff's business discussed whether they should come directly to the disease prevention site. I appreciate it, as well as the committee that there may be more need for the practitioner to enter the Disease Control Committees of the Agency, where the institutions themselves are in the field of managing their advice with the best way to conduct a job in relation to epidemics. In this regard, it may be wise for many classes of practitioners to come to their home. Some of the Commission's proposals are tore up in the Commission opinion and are listed in a special Senate document, No. 807. First, there is a set of definitions. It was noted that the definition of the word disinfection was not sufficiently clear. The committee agrees with this, making adjustments. It was noted that the definition of epidemics did not cover the concept well enough, and after a considerable discussion in the Committee, it was agreed to change that definition, as indicated in the modification process. There was some discussion of the fact that the concept of a diseasehouse really did not exist. There is a law text available but there is no definition of it. I think it was useful to get that discussion into the committee and discuss, and we suggest that the new numbers be added in this respect to put a little more involved in this concept. During this epidemic, the senators are familiar with the natural practice of work. In addition to installing this change, we put in a proper source for a disease practitioner to suggest that such measures have been implemented in a pandemic. That is something that was not clearly stated in the Law. We also discussed whether this definition should be changed. It is clear in the committee that, in itself, the environment can be explained in one way, but then it can be explained to a disease - control doctor or to a carer or to a minister after an incident, that there are fewer restrictions for the environment at any given time. Of course, it can depend on the nature and nature of epidemics, and the committee shows this in her opinion. The role of the Jordan River was discussed in the committee's discussion. Several members, both in the reviews and on the committee, pointed out that this was not clear enough. In itself, the committee agrees, but we are aware that the change proposed in the bill is not really enough to place a proper weight on the role of the Jordan River in the future. That is why the committee suggests that 5. But where this is being discussed, it simply goes away. The role of the disease prevention team will be specifically drew time and work in the general review of the law. It is very important that it be done. About 10. G., in accordance with the Constitution, there was a considerable debate. In the 10th. has been proposed to make changes to Article 12. involved in the treatment of disease because of the national risk of epidemics. Is even suggested in 2 mg. Section 12. if a minister's authority is specifically required to make a decision, to obtain the motion of an aesthesiologist, to stop the job and to outlaw. At the same time, it is suggested that we at level 12. The law adds to the law that measures should be used according to this article only if it is absolutely necessary to protect human health and life and that the implementation of measures, as well as their delinquency, should be moderate and equal and equal, taking into account the protection of the interests of others, particularly those who have special protection under the Constitution and human rights contracts to which Iceland is responsible. A review of Iceland's Legal Association points out that neither rights nor rights of employment can be impaired except by law and provided that public needs, such as 72th and 75th C.E. are required. The constitution. The order of the judicial action was interpreted so that the general legislator is forbidden to hide the European Commission's decision on these matters, rather than to recommend principles for which the scope and limitations of the rights considered necessary must be met. The Legal Committee considers it preferable to measure the limit and extent of the loss of employment rights and rights in the law to be recommended in the bill. Ordinarily, the legal committee suggests that in comments on Article 10. In a bill report, such cases are discussed to some extent. It tells us that the retirement of job drivers has so far been used by the current authority to state a ban on meeting and has focused on activities where many people meet or are in close proximity or where the nature of the action requires touching. It says that to date there was no curfew in this country and that because of the burdensome burden of such a arrangement, there may be a need to give a warning about its application. Only outposts will be used in extreme emergency situations. A health Ministry notes that some comments are made by Iceland's police society, though it is noted that there may be a number of safety warrants for job stopping only on the way in which Covid-19 disease is infected. The Ministry believes that it is possible to respond to the comment in this way to add a new case to the D- force 10. The bill. Similar comments are found in the account of the Association of Professionals. It concluded that the importance of the restrictions on employment and property rights must be clearly supported by law. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the 10th par. The bill will be further developed, and it will be specified that only to the extent that the work involves the risk of the spread of disease, such as the number of people in it, or in close contact or contact. Then the Committee also suggests a change in the 10th paragraph. the bill and at the same time the definition must be 1st paragraph. the curfew canceled. The committee noted that there was no need for a curfew in an ongoing epidemic and that it was unlikely that such a ban would come. The Committee believes that a discussion of such a major intervention in the Constitution of people's rights as well as curfew includes the need for detailed coverage that will be found in a better location on a total legal review. At the same time, if dead bodies do, we can guarantee the quick payment of the bill. In 1 1. will be discussed on the border. It was done quite a bit on the committee, discussing arrangements, and perhaps one of the greatest things that have been spoken about, which is the authority to be given a mandatory vaccination on a border. It's like the curfew, it's a pretty big decision to make, for example. in the middle of an outbreak. It is also a big decision that humans can be obliged to treat one just because they are entering the country. Remember, we cannot have different rules depending on whether the tourist is from a foreign country or someone who lives in Iceland. This is very important. It cannot be set as a requirement, or we view it as a matter of great discussion at least, and it needs very strict conditions to bring about this divorce. So we decided to refer this point to an overall review of the law and take it out now. Then there is a further adjustment to Article 11. spind e.g. that by improving the rate of recovery under the so - called double screening on the border. I think it's important. It then explains that screening in such a way that you can take e.g. a loss of mucous membrane or any, which may be called a negligible intervention, falls under what might be called a medical examination. There was a considerable discussion of the announcement of the minister's announcement, and whether and in what way a minister should inform the Parliament on the progress of the epidemic. The Commission takes into account some of the announcemental activities and puts in place a separation procedure for the pandemic for two months or more, the secretary should report to the council at least every one month. The Commission also points out that other information sources for the council can arise, such as memos for committees or other recruitment agencies affected by the epidemic. Fellow directors of the Center for Disease Control were somewhat discussed. This arrangement is adjusted. The bill could be understood as it was that a psychiatrist himself or after an incident had to be a candidate in such cases. It says that such activities may be a legal representative of a surgeon's office. There were also some discussions on the subject, and it is important, especially in terms of the commitment of the city's rights. So, as indicated in the 8th stanza of the revised document, the Commission will agree that the sufficiency and the application of any of these procedures follow general guidelines for personal lawsuits. Finally, only medical examinations were discussed for indications from the Icelandic nurses that the nature of the matter as described above could not be expected to exist at the screening of hundreds or thousands of people on the border, or even more medical professionals who conducted such clinics. The committee agrees with this and makes adjustments, i.e. that there is a medical examination, which suggests that this examination may be performed by other staff other than the medical staff. With the reference to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbönóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, and Sigríður Á. Andersen would sign this in advance that they planned to explain in a talk. Other members of Parliament who are believed to sign are Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdótttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. A respectable president. I have concluded my case in this very important matter, and I look forward to the discussion that will take place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. I've only got one question, and it's got a 5th count, paragraph 1. It says: ▪ Infusion: Skin perforation or incision, or application of any unused material in the body, or a study of the body cavity. Invasive procedures do not include medical examination of the ear, nose and mouth, ear, mouth or skin temperature, or temperature imaging, physical examination, hearing, external palpation, retinal endoscopy, urine, faecal or salivary biopsy from outside, blood pressure measurement from outside, or ECG. An infusion is a hole or cuts in the skin, or application of a barrier or alien substance in the body, or a study of the body cavity. There have been comments, I know, that in this case it is authorized to put a chip, which is probably made of metal or such, under the skin. Well, maybe. A senator considered it to me whether this is a concern, whether it is correct to understand that it is a source for various scans of microchips under the skin? Are they the anxieties that have been torn against me regarding this fact? It would be good if it were. A senator could cross it, and this team especially, what it involves exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u69	Mr. President. I can assure you what. A member of Parliament that is not in any way understood by the 5th common definition of Article 1. in such a way that people can be put in parts and left behind. This is not in any way understood in such a way. That's definitely not true there. In order to do something like that. A senator speaks of the need to break the skin, which is something other than to escape e.g. cotton sticks after mucous membranes or a cotton gauze after the transdermal patch. No, no, no. Senator, we don't have to worry about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. In this regard, a senator for a clear and clear answer. This is where it comes from the public speaker's office. Some have been concerned that it was allowed to put some kind of chip under the skin, but there is absolutely no reason to support and to get it clear because I know that there has been nothing about people worrying about it. But, hey. A senator explained it very well, and I thank him for it so that there's something people don't have to worry about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the committee's opinion and excellent speech. I'm going to agree with the Committee that I think it's a good decision not to reinvest a full review of disease laws at the time we're living now, i.e. in the middle of a disease crisis. I mentioned it to 1st. that there are both benefits and defects in discussing this matter in the present situation. The problems are obvious to them that we are so preoccupied that we may overlook some of the other factors. Nevertheless, it was important to react, and we had been told that we would need to ensure that the resources provided by the resources that we could normally provide in the epidemic we have been dealing with. I have two questions for you. Senator. The first has to do with oral government decisions. Now I have to admit that I'm not legal, and I haven't often heard of such decisions. I wanted to know what. A senator whether there were any examples of such decisions that one might predict. The second question concerns our neighbors. In a talk with a man about 1st. So I directed it to what? The welfare committee that she would consider what this was like in our neighboring countries. I was then referring to an example I'm sure to be from Norway, i.e. ... thata minister can putauthorship in place, but it needs to gain approval at the council. I realize that our administration isn't exactly working, but I'd like to ask you why. A senator how the discussion on this subject was handled by the Committee. I have to admit that I haven't been able to read myself through all the data in this case but are there any such summarys and information about implementation in other parts of the North countries regarding the disease control issues?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir for the answer. First regarding oral government decisions: There may be events such as when a decision is to be made quickly, e.g. If there is a large transport vehicle to the country, whether it is a plane or a passenger ship, and it turns out that there is an epidemic on board. It may then be important to have authority to make a decision, a government decision, that the passengers should be allowed to land only after A, B, or C. Such a decision may need to be made on very short notice. However, the committee made it very clear that when decisions are made, they will then follow a written argument as quickly as possible. It's very important, and I agree with it. A senator that such a strategy should not be used except in absolute exceptional circumstances. The committee is clear on that. Regarding the fact that the council stamped out government decisions, several discussions were made on the committee and on the other hand. brought a number of lawyers to the administrative court. I think it's safe to say that the general line of this discussion has been that our government ship assumes that the Council establishs laws that set up the European Commission frame, and then the council is not breaking in stamping control decisions afterwards. On the other hand, we decided to take the lead that when such a situation had continued for a long time, a minister would be obliged to come to the council and open up a press conference.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u73	A respectable president. I need to digest it only by the verbal control measures because my initial reaction was that I was a little afraid of it. I reiterate that it needs to be too clear that it needs to follow along with written reasoning. You just need to process this phenomenon. But only with regard to the other factor I talked about: I'm just gonna think about it because we're having this sort of thing going on right now about Iceland Bank sales. There is a legal warrant, and for many years, it has been a minister to sell the share of the State. We have a special law on how to deal with such a sale. Part of the process is that a minister should seek the information or opinion of the Economic and Business Committee and the legal committee. I realize that it's not that a minister can write a regulation, and it will take effect immediately, and we'll stamp it out. I realize that things aren't exactly going right in our administrations. But that's why I'm rolling it up and maybe more about a full reexamination on the CDC. You see, I feel that some part of the community discussion of the treatment laws was a bit misleading. When we as political representatives have considered how far we are going and how far we can go, they do not mean that you are not in favor of disease prevention and that they are being dealt with as it has been done, but the question is where decisions should be made, just so people realize that the discussion is about it. During the council, we have demonstrated that we can react very quickly. Here has been the law for a day--I'm not saying it's absolutely good that it does, but it can be done when law has to be passed off in one day. Although there are tools and tools that we may at some time need to be kept in the environment of the disease, it is not necessarily a reason to write it as a warrant for government officials to use it, since the council can always respond to that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u74	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, there are examples. ...re.,authorized to sell financial institutions. Unlike it, however, it is reasonable to assume that there is almost always enough time to do that work and make a decision and send out some comments and such. It's a little different. It's a matter of redundancy. Then we may come to what the senator was saying, that there are times when the council is very selective about doing things, and that may be appropriate at times. But I believe that it will be better for the council to have a chance, and it is a separation that the council is allowed to discuss these matters with the secretary who will finally make decisions, make comments with them, and thus influence the course rather than directly allowing the council to work out of an epidemic from day to day. I think it's a better way. If people want to look at the other, there is even more reason to deal with the overall review so that we are not changing the administrative department in terms of a pandemic ◯, if we can talk like that, i.e. in the middle of an outbreak. I think that might be it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u75	A respectable president. We will discuss the treatment laws or parts of the review of the SEC, but I would like to sign on this subject in advance. The discussion on the committee was of many interest, and I think it was one of the most remarkable things for all of the lawyers who came before the committee to discuss the matter and all the lawyers who worked with the Commission in addition. I was, in effect, shocked by how much you can stretch and pull and talk about simple things, and I was completely done with all of this, but then I might have concluded taking one word or one sentence out, and it was all come true. This may show us how complex law is, but I have a feeling that if there had been empty lawyers on the committee, it would never have been settled. That may be unnecessary concern, but somehow I got it. Happily, we have reached this issue out of the committee, and we would have had to do it long ago. A year ago, when the virus started, we were taking a new step, we didn't know anything. Sadly, some wrong decisions were made, and I have to point out specifically that in all the discussions that took place, the theory soon happened to the head of Fox People, Sæland Goad, that the border should be closed, just not allowed to enter. At that point, it did not belong to the platform, and it ended with the complete Caste Light factor centered on its historic idea. Today, however, we see the right choice. We saw in spring that we were able to get rid of the virus by standing together as one when we saw the situation in the hospitals and the pressures of the medical profession and the nurses, and thanks to the wonderful performance of those people in a difficult situation. We know the consequences. We know that there are about 30 people who have died from the virus. If we had closed up in the spring, what would be the situation today? Just think about it for a minute. I've heard the word that the cost today is one hundred and twenty-three billion. Predicted if the land had been closed at that time, if a minister and a government had only had the power to close the border so that the virus could not get in. Then there would be full - time sports, sports events, theaters, ballets, musicals, and outings. They thought it couldn't be done. Yes, it was possible. This was accomplished in New Zealand, but the virus did get in there because people were traveling abroad. Once we're in this delicate place, we're supposed to make sure that they're just completely in the situation that people go from country to country. It also troubled me when I saw a recent example of an individual in New Zealand who left for 14 days in a quandary and two screens and had a negative response, diagnosed with infection two to three days after he escaped from a contagion. It may tell us how pathetic the nature of this virus is that I saw in the past that Chinese are taking anal exam, that they would have found that the virus lives a lot better life there than its throat, whether it is a mutant variant or whatever. If it's the next step, I'll just say, "Guð help us." Let's stop and don't let the virus get through. There is another factor that shows how well we have done in spite of everything. We are considered to be in the seventh place of the nations in terms of success and escape from the virus. But we're an island, and we could have been in first place. Sad to say, death is a serious problem, and it is also necessary to take the pressure on the hospital functions. It's enormous, and we'll see how it is abroad, where the virus is grassing. All we need to do is look over to the United States or to Germany or to the situation that is sadly faced in the Netherlands, where people object to alcohol provisions and protest outposts. I say for my part, we're going to do a full reexamination on the CDC, so we should deal with these things. We need to be ready. This virus is teaching us certain things, and I also think we have to learn this lesson from the fact that it's the first of many of them that would very likely affect us. We can only tell how fast the virus is mutagenic, how many strains there are of it, and then there are tools on how a vaccine works. We need to take into consideration the fact that we have a responsibility to protect our most vulnerable people. We have blessedly been able to do so and far better than most nations the worst has ever done. Fortunately, we're on the right track, and I think this bill is the right way. I'm on board to make sure once and for all that we don't let the virus in. It's just a basic thing we need to focus on. Let's not let the virus in again. The benefits are awesome. I know there's going to be pressure. Travellers, airlines, wants to let tourists in, likes to relax. We've been so successful, now it's time to relax. But I sincerely hope that these laws will do so and give Ministers the opportunity not to let the virus in. All common sense tells us that we shouldn't relax on the border, we shouldn't let this virus in again. And we can do that. We can keep her from getting in here. And the benefits will be so great that they are totally worth it. I'll give you an example of a sickhouse. As the situation is today, it is in itself easy to make sure that the virus cannot go outside the airport if people come in contact with the country. There's a hotel at the airport. You can use a facility at the airport, you can make a cartel, you can have a isolation facility. We're supposed to use it. We are to take care of it in every way, making sure that, despite being under surveillance, it is not possible to enter the country without going into an environment. I met individuals who knew at first that the people went out of Christmas, went on Christmas holiday, and came home to work; they arrived at the airport and planned for a six-month terror, but they were at work the next day. In one case, some were even driven home. It tells us that what we were doing isn't working. What we're doing now, and can do, after we've already agreed to these laws, hopefully will work. We're supposed to contribute, by all means, to the fact that the virus doesn't come here. So I give full support to the bill and thank you for your cooperation with the Committee. I'm glad that we have settled a committee and that the matter has been discussed. I hope the bill becomes a law as soon as possible and we can just drive it through and finish the case so we can work by that law. I hope that this work makes sense so that we can stay here in a country that doesn't have to have all these restrictions. There is also one thing that has been forgotten about this matter. A large number of people have not been able to exercise or swim, people who need it. I'm also a physical therapist. People have become seriously infected with the virus, and side effects have caused a large number of people who have been infected to need physical therapy. How sad to know that the latest reports of physical therapy are the price of a 500 - year price! For each session of physical therapy, which was an additional charge because of lack of contracting with a physical therapist, there is now 1,000 dollars, 1,000 cents. extra charge for every class of physical therapy. For some people who are unemployed, who have lost their jobs, or for poorer and older citizens, there are 1,000 dollars. A little extra for every class of physical therapy. A lot of money. If you need two or three hours a week, we will see how much this amount is over the month. It is not good to be unable to negotiate this in the middle of an epidemic. One night in the hospital costs 100,000 dollars, not below, but the cost of physical therapy for one year is only half of it. It must be natural for the government to stop throwing the crown and save the money, making sure those in need of physical therapy are not swept away. I know of individuals who say that since they were three hours in physical therapy last week, they can be just one hour this week. What are the consequences of these people in the middle of Covid, when people have been pressured into out of exercise, cannot practice physical activity? It's been squeezed so that some have even been shut, e.g. a certain number of disabled people, inside a year, just locked up. Since we must make sure that we are not unnecessary in causing suffering, we are under obligation to make sure that things work once and for all time. I hope, when this becomes legal, that it will be handled, and that everyone who needs help from Covid, who has followed it will get help and without having to go over paying physical therapy or other medical services that people need. If the virus disappears, we can also open the exercise. We can open for swimming, we can open for concerts. We can open up our society, and we need not worry that our most vulnerable group will become infected but we can also receive the vaccine and finish vaccinating the most vulnerable group. Then we're in good shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He got a lot of talk about events that lead to this virus epidemic entering the country and how it could have been handled, and all of that. Yes, the senator may be quite right when he says that looking back and looking back may have been helpful at some point, saying: "It might have been better. However, it is important to consider this in the context of what has even occurred. It has been discussed that in this epidemic, the disease - control authorities have repeatedly said that it is not really possible to establish a condition in which we have an unsuspecting virus. There are growing tourists in the sense of the law of both countries, Iceland residents who come to Iceland for travel abroad, and in the traditional sense, tourists who come here to visit the country and stay for a short time. I can't quite see how it would have been possible to stop them or to stop them from going into the country with some closing in the country. There could never have been, it's naturally very twisted. I would like to ask the senator in the light of general laws and international agreements that we are in: Do the senator believe that the country could have been completely shut down, as he calls it? It seems to me that it might be quite difficult, considering we can't stop people who live here who work and are citizens and prevent them from entering the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u77	A respectable president. As far as I know, countries have been forbidding people to come from Britain, forbidding people to come from countries where the virus is in that kind of growth. I don't know any better than even Danir stopped on her border. I had it myself that summer, and they just stopped. Sweden stopped trips between Denmark and Sweden. They're setting a ban like this. Why can't we do the same? I'm just saying we don't have to go all unnecessary. We know that there's always something necessary to do, but it's also the Center for Disease Control, making sure that the person is being watched, that people aren't saying, "I'm just going to take a six-month tour, but I'm never going to keep it. We know that as soon as we relax during the summer, the virus had come in. Fortunately, double screening and infestation seems to have been effective. Why not stop the people at the place, at the Cheflavour Airport? I've seen and heard that people are coming to pick up individuals at the airport, although they were advised not to do so, and even half the passengers leave like that. We know there was a one-time plane where 10% was infected. So we must be able to do this. If other nations can have such limitations, we should be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u78	Mr. President. I don't know the laws or constitutions of many countries other than Iceland, and I don't know about them, but it's quite clear, as I understand the Icelandic constitution, that we can't forbid the Icelandic citizens to come in here. I think that's absolutely impossible. We can have some kind of limitations about how they may enter the country, e.g. ... withanxiety, as we have, in fact, been in the law. We could have them undergo a medical examination. But there is no sickness or physical examination of Iceland's citizens or Iceland's citizens who may feel discouraged that we exonerate them from across the border. It's never possible. I hope the senator isn't calling for it. In terms of what is necessary and unnecessary trips, this epidemic has almost automaticly lost out on unnecessary trips because there has been so much decrease in the availability of trips. But I think it would be very difficult for the authorities to consider what would be necessary a journey and what would be unnecessary. I think we should be looking for a closer look at those who are under a district, though taking into account a moderate measure, because there is also no need for authority or police or anyone breathing into the neck language of the citizens. It doesn't have to be like that. I think it would be a better way than to try to stop people from coming into the country, and I hope the Senator agrees with me in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. No, I'm not about to put total bans on us. I'm talking about how, hopefully, we'll be able to legalize such laws as these put a great barrier to moving between countries so that the person's thinking twice before he goes off. He will do so only for some very necessary purpose because the easier the journey is at this time, the more people go, we know. We know that as soon as people were supposed to pay the cost of a sample, and one of them fell down. We can steer this thing, and we're supposed to control it. We are to try to control it as much as we can because the benefits for us within the country are so great. We're a small island, we can and should see to it, since we can have it on the other side, be pretty much free of virus. And say that it can't be kept free - we forget that since the time Covid came, there's no other flu and all kinds of sicknesss have vanished, we're on the move, this year. It appears that at least flu, we've managed to completely eliminate the flu during this period so that there's a possibility, we can have an antiviral country, i.e. after we have rid ourselves of this Covid virus. The benefits of achieving it should be so great for us that I am absolutely convinced that it would pay many times for us today, that says itself, because we have everything stopped and that we have to have a lot of people on the pay from the state that could be working on if the virus wasn't there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u80	A respectable president. I'm at a committee party right now. well - being committees in the topic under discussion, which is about changes in the treatment laws. I had the pleasure of working with the committee, which I do not do in equal terms with this case and to thank the members of the committee for their happy relations. I would like to start by saying that I am glad that the bill has changed positively in the administration of the Committee and, as it were, will be with this committee, even if I sign it in advance, as noted in any case. The manager of the opinion. My model to the committee deals with various factors. Of course, I agree with the views that have recently been heard here at the council, and I may be repeating myself from the beginning of this epidemic that has soon lasted for a year. But I've talked about it almost from the beginning, and I've called for parishion procedures to be discussed in the Senate Hall on the part of Congress not only in the form of a secretary's report or a hearing period, but in the form of Congress. I have pointed out that prior to action, some of which are so highly concerned with the rights of the citizens in a number of ways, governmental rights, is a clear legal license. There have been a number of disease prevention measures in this epidemic with reference to current disease prevention laws, but it has been observed in the past that the permissions of existing disease laws to the competent authorities may not be completely clear and in situations where they are clearly insufficient for the measures used to prevent disease. That is why I have considered it necessary, and so I have this committee to support the measures to prevent the disease that men believe are necessary to perform. The discussion of these matters has been presented in support of the current treatment measures. It may, in fact, move as far as it goes. I'd like to be taken into account, so no one is unconvinced about it, that pillars are not followed by measures that have been assessed as not resolved before. It's not done backwards. There is nothing very important about the legal legislation for the treatment of disease because of the need for various measures to be taken, and it is likely that the General will take care of it. A report written by the Páll of Hreinsson and Health, the current judge at EFTA, suggests that the need to reevaluate all the disease prevention laws is more important than in the past, but it also notes that it is even more necessary to provide the more sensitive measures at that time. So here it is used as a way of dealing with disease prevention and crowning epidemics, with changes in disease control laws, while having a complete review of the law. I took note of my view on the Committee that I thought it would be better for me to set special treatments for the treatment of this particular epidemic, a special measure of action for him, as we have been doing in various areas of the economy. It has been set up on specific measures, not a change of the law on the rights or the like, but a series of special requirements, and the council has failed very rapidly and definitely in government planning on these matters. Through this time, a large number of laws that are specifically developed in the economic sector have passed. I would have thought that it would be better to enter the council for the treatment of disease prevention procedures instead of cutting down existing disease laws in this way. A committee article suggests that the committee encourages a general review now or preparation for it, and I agree with it. But I would have considered it more desirable to have specialized. It would have been better for many purposes to have special provisions for disease prevention, special laws that just take on this epidemic, and then to end when we are exposed to this danger. It would have been better for civilians, I think. It would have been more beneficial for more efficient legislation and more clear - it would have been better for civilians to identify the measures used to prevent disease. It would also have been, I think, much better for the CDC to have such legislation that would give much more flexibility and be able to act quickly to change the law as they felt necessary. There is no doubt in my mind that the Council is well prepared to respond rapidly to the changes I referred to earlier, we have an economic example. It would have been better for the disease - control authorities to receive special laws on this, and it would also have been better for the Council itself, the legislatator, to overlook any form of disease prevention procedures authorized by law and better for the General Assembly to monitor their activities and, as I say, take them into account in a number of ways in which they are more clearly established. It's even one of the defenders I'm covering with this case. I think a full reexamination of disinfectant laws should assume that in such situations, which hopefully will not be back in the next few decades, it is especially expected in general resources that specific laws on how to react to such an epidemic are implemented. I take as an example this work at the Land Hospital, where there is always a schedule, a schedule of action on how to deal with epidemics. However, specific work programme or work programme and processes have been implemented in connection with this particular pandemic. It should not be forgotten that disease control laws are intended to apply to many diseases, including all types of disease, and not just this particular crown virus. I think it's shocking, and I think the council needs to see it over the next few years. It must not be that a person starts using a work programme from this epidemic automatically if there are other infectious diseases that require a different kind of practice, just because it has the authority to do so in the law. This is a danger and it is important that the lawgiver closely observe it. Then I'd like to mention that even if epidemics ride over and every year we can always expect, financial collapse, and so forth, the court will have to stand up in an upright position. This means that rights are by law at all restricted. If so, it is not enough to have a general law, making sure that moderate behavior is being taken care of, and not just legalizing it. It does not even have to be stated in the legal sense that decisions should be taken moderately, that is, a principle that applies in the European Court of Justice and in most places where moderate action should be taken against all decision making. It also needs to be noted that even if there is some solution that might be deemed in the course of such a year, there are limits to authority and authority. Some that have, e.g. being presented as a biohazard procedure in relation to the Korean virus epidemic just isn't effective in the light of the Constitutionary rights. As an example, I'd like to say, an action on a border that wouldn't allow citizens of the United States to come into the country unless they're doing some research or some kind of action. This would not last, nor would it pass a constitution, no matter how noble the purpose and well - will of the Lawgiver, be allowed to pass disease prevention procedures. This won't work. This should be kept in mind. In view of this, I do not have to speak of any specific treatments in relation to an epidemic, as I have discussed that there had been a clearer, very clear definition of such legislation, i.e. at any time it is a disease that can warrant action. Not all epidemics can give cause for severe disease prevention. The exact scope of the action authorized must also be determined. The scope of the matter needs to be defined. These measures need to be restricted too. That's what I say and I want to be a coach. This does not mean that I have a horn on the side of a disease prevention operation, not at all. From the beginning of this epidemic, I have been underscoring reminders and urgent measures of every kind of disease prevention, especially personal disease prevention, which I agree with a pathologist, to make a major difference, as was done at the beginning of the epidemic. Each one of us thinks and appreciates, who is sensitive, and those in a more delicate position may be, and the rest of us may be careful of those who are in a more delicate position. However, I mention it because it is not allowed to happen when a person compromises the principles of the legal state. In this regard, too, I would like to mention that human rights are not just the question of granting posetive freedom to action but, rather, of having it built up or built up that human rights are difficult to deal with. It is not enough for some form of psychosis or panic or time pressure to break free from these fundamental reasons. Now someone might ask if I thought this bill was in an acceptable form and my answer to it is no, I don't think it is. I think it could have changed it more and made certain rules clearer, e.g. For details on the scope of action that the competent authorities can take. Although I'm an expert at a committee meeting about all moderates and that measures should not last longer than necessary, and until the streets, it may not be sufficiently well considered in my opinion when it comes to basic rights that are intended to be set aside, if there is not directly in the law text itself laid exactly on the scope of the operation, the time limit of the procedure, and the limitations of the procedure. I'd like to have seen more changes in the bill. Of course, there are positive changes in important matters. I would like to mention, for example, that the committee agrees to issue the authority of a psychiatrist in order to state the obligation for cross-border vaccination. In fact, I'm quite moved by the fact that the Ministry should suggest it on the bill, don't talk about in the light of the lack of a vaccine. However, there is still some evidence that the current disease - control laws still include the provision of a disease - control doctor to recommend general vaccination in other traveling elders for other factors. But it was a pleasure to hear at least The current psychiatrist expressed himself that he had never thought of the obligation to be vaccinated in Iceland, but he rightly pointed out that Iceland, our fine nation, well-informed, uniformly and so forth, accepted vaccinations as other medical advances. Thus, there has been no need for such harsh measures as that of the nation's obligation to immunisation. But this may change, of course, the viewpoint of the disease - control authorities at any given time, so I certainly believe, at the total legal review, this needs to be examined specifically. But that law was, in effect, carved out of the bill. Another positive change is that authority was dismissed for a pathologist to state curfew. Perfectly unprovoked warrant, in my opinion, on the land. It was also a pleasure to agree that the committee would not interfere with current disease prevention standards that work under the current health - care laws and should provide advice on environmental policies. There was some amazing change placed on the position of the disease prevention. On the other hand, I agree with visitors who came and called for the role of a disease prevention stake to be identified and defined better. I think it's more likely to fit into an overall review of the law. That's the kind of thing I wanted to say about the bill this time. The protection laws of all northern countries have changed in recent years. They quickly changed their disease prevention laws at the beginning of the epidemic, doing so again in the fall of the season, and before the dance council, there is a debate about the changes in the Danish Centers for Disease Control. In Sweden, there was a significant change in the treatment laws in a country where the council decided to take it directly to him at least overseeing these materials and all the anti-pyretic measures authorized by the competent authorities will be subject to the Council within one week in Sweden. Other changes have been made in Norway and Finland. I think the council needs to look at it, so I'm going to point it out. The welfare committee to continue to examine this and the changes made in the North countries because they have raised a great deal of debate about the authority barrier between the legislature and the Commission under these circumstances. There is no perfect solidarity in that subject, neither legal scholars nor elected agents. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andersen for an excellent speech. There are a few things from a talk. A senator I'd like to come in on. The senator mentioned in his speech that she was not at all in the welfare committee but that she had participated in the work of the Committee now in the processing of this case, and I think that there is a great improvement in the situation. The Senator came to the viewpoints associated with special law, and I would like to ask for it to go a little more on the depth in this regard. Was there anything in the early stages that prevented the approach? Now, as a member of the council, the senator is a member of the largest board of directors, so I am giving myself some debate over how this would be handled. Then, at the end of the issue in Denmark, the senator came in handy. The senator wanted to explain to me just how she had seen this practical impairment, and if she felt that she had any explanation for why we are now, at month 11, in this situation, but we have not otherwise approached the matter in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u82	A respectable president. When this epidemic struck, or when we realized in March that he was riding, I agree that the current epidemic laws provided certain authority to the CDC in a particular emergency. I don't think there's any difference that a situation can arise where it is necessary to respond quickly for a limited period of time. When that epidemic followed, and I don't talk about it at the end of the summer, I realized that this warrant could not go long and maybe not go on April, May, and I've been speaking about it in a talk and in a publication. The Senate didn't get much together, so a man didn't have the chance to discuss it here at the council. I was surprised that the council was not meeting to discuss this specifically and that the government had not used any specific legal procedure in these matters, which would also allow the opportunity to go over and discuss it with the council how men saw various scenarios based on the way the epidemic would develop. What happens, e.g. If in Iceland the next five, ten, 15 years are always detecting a total rate of 5 to 30 infections per month? What, then, will they do? All of this debate remains, and I think that it would have been successful to bring it into play right at the beginning of this pandemic with special laws that will allow the competent authorities for a certain period of time and that these laws would have been recycled or renewed or extended in some way but always in the presence of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There are two things I want to come on in a second answer. First, it is whether there has been a discussion of the Commission's viewpoint on the Society's Association of Economic Effects of Disease Prevention, which I have actually lost a lot over the entire period of time we have been in this fight, starting now for a year. How was that aspect discussed? Then there is a problem. A candidate merely entered his talk and turned to the meeting address and authority on such decisions. Counts 'em out. A member of the program or the approach suggested by the council is acceptable? There was an excellent interview at Cast Light, I believe, with former president of the Legal Society, Reimar Pétursson, who described that he did not experience any special meeting when he went to the barberman. I would be interested to learn in the way these two factors were discussed within the Committee, on the one hand, the evaluation of the economic impacts that I feel have been too little done so far in the present state, and the point towards the definition of what may come under the term of transport ban.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u84	A respectable president. Hv. A candidate will consider a very important point to take up a special discussion, but this is just a link to control measures for more than the underlying infectious disease, including the aetiology. In terms of public health in general and economy, such as labour. A senator came in. I do not recall a discussion of economic assessments of the disease prevention procedures in particular. Of course, there is a memo from a fall on the economic assessments of disease prevention that leads to that conclusion - and then, in fact, it was proposed to shut down the country in the fall, since it could have a normal life here and the economy would be in bloom. It has naturally been found that, despite these closes, there has been no normal life within the country, and there is good reason to renew only this memo. I will do my part to encourage further evaluation of the treatment measures in economic terms, but discussions about this need, of course, to be carried out at the council as well. Whatever the threat of a job may be, it is only right. A senator points out that this has been done with reference to a meeting ban and is in a very gray area, so that I don't take more deeply on those topics. The bill, as it is now done, is assumed to have special authority to stop the job if certain cases arise that are well defined, including if you have a high level of work, high risk of infection, high levels of presence, and otherwise. There, however, I felt that there was no need to limit the source and that I needed to see which other means are best, including the fact that I was not able to do so. It's the contagion. This will not lead to a closing effect, e.g. Precipitating work, such as in barbershops, is easy to trace. [[The president calls.]] There, other counter measures can prevent them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u85	Mr. President. This bill to correct the conversion of disease laws has now received a good consideration. The welfare committee. I'd like to start my speech by discussing it specifically, because there was some weird fly-off saying that the case had been whistled, someone would have been causing delay. ...and I come up here to correct that narrative. There was great loneliness in all the committees to finish this work quickly but also well, not to throw in the hands, but to add additional meetings on the committee so that this work could be handled properly, and I believe that it was done. The committee received a variety of visitors from a variety of sources with differing views on the subject, and that is exactly what is to be mentioned, try to look at things from all available sides, recalling the authors of the bills to the committee, receiving a variety of tips or answers, or whatever comments were received, etc. No one is aware of the need for measures taken to prevent disease during a pandemic, such as the one present. In many places it is also necessary to make changes in the treatment laws. Why? Yes, because we must make sure that the measures taken by governments, health authorities, are cleared up because of the extreme hardships of the basic human rights of people. We're talking about the government's right to the public, about freedom of travel, about privacy, about employment freedom, freedom of meeting, freedom to get along, etc. There are no small issues we've been discussing at the moment. A health committee as to this matter. Therefore, Mr. President, I am slightly sorry that I have not been able to pass through this time of change in the social security laws concerning the introduction of the public. As a matter of fact, the overall re-examination of disinfectants will be waiting for a better time, and everyone agreed that it was inadvisable to have an overall Pandemic review, and I completely agree. When we clearly see how a power penetrates one or two people and really just one, I would have thought it would be better, more advisable, for the legislature as well as for the executive, to give a clear law on it here and out to the public that power distribution is already such a burdensome operation. What am I talking about there? In a committee study, we will discuss the announcement of the minister's announcement. There it was decided that it would be important for a health minister to be assigned to inform the Council regularly about the development of infectious diseases and the measures taken, and therefore the changes to the highest degree are proposed. Healthcare Minister to the General for Disease Control, which has lasted more than two months. In my mind, a Congregational report is conducted here without premeditating its contents, even if only the evening or the morning before, and they are expected to react, insufficient to explain the legal authority for the action he administers. V.E.G. A health minister at each time has a legal warrant, but I believe it is important that in the face of such burdensome actions, who dance on the gray line of the Constitutionary rights, it is necessary to obtain the access of the lawgiver, the democratic General, in which all the people are engaged to such action. I don't think there's a need for all disease prevention procedures to confirm this. I don't think it would improve the delay. When it comes to a decision regarding business ventures, which has significant consequences for the general public, for those working there, for owners and the like, and for some other seriously burdensome measures, closing the border, where there was earlier curfew, etc., I believe that health ministers should take it at least one time, but within a week this decision should be confirmed by the General Assembly. This is not going anywhere, Mr. President, because it's being practiced in the countries around us. That's exactly how it's being done elsewhere. It even involves the smallest detail. I don't think it's necessary. I don't think there's a need for a masking duty that you have to go to the General. I don't think it's such a burdensome operation. But in the case of action that significantly affects people's daily lives, and significant economic impact, it is important both for the general public in this country and for health ministers at one time that the democratic ideals for a meeting come to such an operation. I would have liked to see the change in this case, but unfortunately, the majority did not agree that we were going the same way as other North countries, to bring final authority or confirmation into this council. I think it is also important for a minister not to stand alone on the bridge with all these very burdensome decisions. In some lands too, it is beginning to be that there is not only one minister to confirm such decisions but at least one minister. Two. The committee also discussed whether this might be the case. But then it was the song: No, we have a variety of governmental powers. But they're gonna bring it in here instead. The General Assembly of the Icelanders needs to be quick at times. During this epidemic, we have seen the General Assembly establish a law where a bill has come in in the morning and the latter part has been delivered. We've seen it here too, e.g. the law on a workaholics, when laws are passed on to strike, that they are handled here in a few hours from the General Assembly. A general assembly may react this way, and such disease - prevention measures are, of course, only during times of disaster like those we have lived in. I would've thought it was the perfect key. There's a better time for the law's general review. A review of the management board will also allow for a better time, including changes in the control area. The proposals available in the bill, to change the path of disease prevention, which should shape a policy in the cross-cutting policy to be a sole consultant, are removed, and I believe it is good. But then I'd like to set it up and encourage the health authorities in Iceland to go to the preventative law because it says that the disease prevention prevention is in place and when it comes to preventing disease prevention. But that happened before then. The welfare committee that the disease prevention has not been called to the table in less than a year of the pandemic, where a number of treatment measures have been required. In such times, a legal form of disease has not been called together for such action. I can't quite figure out if it's allowed to leave the disease line so completely behind, at least not according to current law. It is very important to make it clear that the administrative law is valid and, of course, valid. But I also pay attention to the authority given to a psychiatrist in this case, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir came in against this day, to give oral obligatory omens. In 2021, it takes a few seconds to send e - mails from telephone or text messages. If the electricity and all communication are out of the country, you can dump things on paper using a ball pen. It will take no longer long for such an arrangement to be copied by e - mail, texting, or just knocking it down on a napkin. I find it quite unlikely to give authority to oral administration decisions because in the case of such an urgent situation that there is a need to act under oppressive measures, it is better not to question the possibility that this has been done. There is usually no self-employment doctor in all calls and when it does. The spokesman for the case, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, argues with this by arguing that a ship's coming to the dock I just have to say that it takes a hell of a time for a ship to come to the dock, that's just the way, and to secure the landline. At all that time, a disease - prevention doctor will have an enormous amount of time, countless opportunities, to send a short e - mail with administrative instructions. I find this to be a lack of sufficient reason for making such a decision. What if someone doubts that this happened, a word against a word? However, it was quite a conversation, and I believe that it is important to discuss the importance of people going to a place of disease. There is no longer any authority that obligatory workers in a cartel are being assigned, but authorities are being offered to explain more carefully how to open such homes to local authorities. I would feel that it is important to have clear authority to the government that if they put people in such a house, they must be held outside a cartel. When that situation has come up, a recommendation is made to go to a cartel, a clear authority on governments to have such a house ready for use. There are now mandatory vaccination and curfew procedures. There are other sources of authority. It seemsit is possible who is already allowed by the Disease Control Act to allow the prescriber to require a mandatory vaccination course. He himself argued that this authority was already in the law, but he would never have considered applying it. The bill spoke of mandatory vaccinations on the border, but it was abandoned. I have to say, I'm not this authority in the law. I see the authority in the law that a minister can set up a law on immunisation regulations, but this is not a requirement for immunisation. And I think such a law must be absolutely clear, that it is not just immunizations, it is, for example. the current activity, i.e. Regarding the sequence of vaccinations, etc. With curfews and things, I believe it's better to have things in law than not to have them under law. We've managed a little bit about the need, when it's being taken on duty as in the border of double screening, that there is a clear law. It was so remarkable that before the committee there were a number of jurists who are directors who strongly doubted the legal rights to some of the action being taken today. Similarly, Dr. Páll Hreinsson in his report said that there was no legal warrant for action. When it comes to a double screening, the above claim was not a law, but laws were suddenly found. I don't agree that there was a legal warrant for it and not for the lawyers who came before the committee. Of course, I'm glad that we're going to set laws on this matter to support the measures that have already been taken, but we have to worry about making a decision not to take any other actions that are taking place in the world. Of course, we have been very lucky recently not to have to take those actions, such as. curfew. However, I must say that I like to have things in the law, even though it is no longer necessary to apply them, rather than to make a decision to use extreme action without a legal warrant. I'm just like that. Finally, I'd like to state that there are many good things here, they're being cut short, they're better explained, etc. But the time has come, so I have to call it a good one.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for his speech. There are some things I would like to ask. A senator about. Where the senator, being president of the day. I would first like to include in the statement of the Association of Employment for the need for evaluation of the economic impact of disease prevention. Hv. A senator has even participated in a meaningful discussion of the support of sports funds, for example, at earlier levels and in various specialities that have been approved at the council for the Covid situation. Regarding this global assessment - certainly a financial minister's memo was available some time ago - it was decided not to go deep into it or see why. A member of the body feels that they will be considered on the committee later or in some other matter? I don't really think that we understand these laws in a way that assesses the economic impact of disease prevention is somehow ◯afs◯, so to speak? In case of a moment. In a previous comment, a senator wanted to review whether this would be discussed with some depth and would be part of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the question. Here we are working to improve in the form of a number of pre-communicative measures that have already been implemented. We are extending a certain angle, in my opinion, the lack of improvement for measures that have already been implemented. The evaluation of the economic impact of their actions is just concomitantly. That food is already being done. We will not allow the legislation to wait for such a assessment, as it is carried out in another Ministry, continued, and as we have received information, it is already going on. Like what? A member of the council, as it were, has already been performed and continues. But I did not believe that it was sufficient to delay the treatment of this case to investigate the economic effects of existing action. I think much more important that this procedure improves.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer, and I agree completely with it, as it were, here in a pontta that this groundwork of action should have been fixed much earlier. We're about to, I think, 11 months ago, this situation is going to knock on our door. Nevertheless, I still think that the economic and social consequences of disease prevention must come back into all this assessment. In addition, I would like to ask why. A senator on two things that were released. The Senator only introduced them in his speech, but there were two points in the bill issued by the Minister of Ministers, on the other hand, the obligation to immunisation and the curfew. Was this settled on the Committee? In terms of these two factors, what was the main view that the council concluded the matter as the minister originally suggested?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Regarding these two factors, curfew and mandatory national vaccinations - to make it clear that there was a mandatory border vaccination - a very small debate on the Committee because the first page of the Commission, which came from a greater part of the committee, probably after a camp discussion, had been taken out so that the discussion did not really take place. It had only been taken out, and the opposition was likely coming to them for the first time, yet there was a lot of discussion about them and a number of other things that changed. She had nothing to do with these two excommunications and related vaccinations on the border at that point because it had only been taken out. But there were a number of other things that were adjusted, shifted, and the like, and it was just in full agreement and a lot of work that went into it. So these two points had gone out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u90	President. We're here to discuss a change in preventative law. The purpose and need of the law of the person we discuss is to explain the current treatment laws based on the experience of a pandemic crown virus and to prevent the rightfulness of government protection measures. In the opinion of Dr. Páll the Hreinsson of Cleanz, as the bill was based on, the authority of a psychiatrist and health minister is discussed in the light of written and unskilled principles of administrative rights and human rights in the Constitutions and international contracts. It also takes into account the interaction between the authority of the police and the other authorities in order to carry out such measures. This bill has now been removed from the welfare committee. The Commission suggests that rules allowing curfews and mandatory vaccinations on both borders fall out. This is in the opinion of the person here who has an enormously important change, and I'm glad that the arrangements are removed. In view of the discussion that took place just before I got up in a talk chair, where it was asked if these issues had not been adequately treated within the committee and enough discussion, I consider that the committee had actually taken up a discussion and that it was about the very fact that these principles were controversial and were not directly part of Páll the Hreinsson son's proposal for change and the needed improvements immediately. So for my part, I am completely satisfied with the way these regulations were handled by the committee and I believe that perhaps. if this led to a conclusion that the issue was controversial. President. It was a long time before that these changes would have been needed, and I would have found it more difficult to get the case done sooner and immediately without these debates, on the one hand, the required vaccination of the border, and to consider, a respectable president, that it can also apply to Icelandic citizens on their way home to their home, and the other about curfews. The matter was late, and it was not made the top priority of the government classes to pay for Christmas vacations. It was long ago clear that the measures taken by the authorities have seemed necessary to intervene because of the present pandemic. Sometimes it's said that you don't know where you're headed, you're bound to end up somewhere else. I have been in the presence of the Parliament and the Committee to promote this criticism of the delay and lack of clear priorities of the government in this important matter, and I have expressed myself as adamant in this regard. However, as noted earlier, the case in my opinion of cleaning was that these controversial regulations were added to the end because the root verses were to be based on Páll's Hreinsson - son's opinion, which made it clear what must be done immediately in order to put these refinements underneath. And as we have seen in the discussions here today, the overall review of the law is waiting for the conclusion of the present pandemic. At the beginning of this month, a situation arose at the border that called for early government intervention. Only a few people who chose a 14 day field of screening were not exposed and created a greater risk for the public good, especially because the situation was flammable abroad, a new and highly contagious version of the virus was playing our neighbouring countries, and a disease - control doctor recommended that it be performed immediately. Of course, under the commission, the fever grew as a result of finishing the case, and the greater part pressured that the matter was being run through the council quickly. I have promoted my criticism of this process, and I allow myself to stop only the criticism here again. With regard to these controversial issues, the law on mandatory vaccinations and curfews, I have clearly explained my position, and I rejoice that the Committee reached a critical conclusion on the treatment of the terms of agreement. I mention again and again that I have been vaccinated with Covid and that most people should accept a vaccine. " Criticism has turned my attention to the idea that the duty of individuals to vaccination, that government authority can oblige people to accept medication, healthy persons who could be forced into medication or medical treatment. This is coming, to say the least, very close to the Constitution of each individual's rights, bearing in mind that the Constitution is human rights. It is very important to keep it in mind with all the legal procedures involved in a certain umbrella needle on the community that these rights belong to us, individually, and must be very careful when discussing the legal procedures involved in these rights. Similarly, in the case of a disease - control doctor over the head, it has been found that it is far more appealing to teach people than to force them to obey. If the goal is to vaccinate as many people as possible, it works against the aim of forced vaccination, the disease - control doctor has said. The other is that there is also an increased risk of resistance and polarisation, which, of course, works against the goal of vaccinating as many as possible. It is always more exhilarating politics to seek the informed consent of the citizens by each action, by education and open conversation, and when the willingness to convince as many as possible about the same thing for the public good, it is important that it is based on open, honest, enlightened conversation with the nation, not harsh legalization. I think, and let me hope, that most of us would agree on that, which works here at the General now. There's a similar argument against my curfew. In the original version of the bill, a health minister said that there could be a curfew because of the community's risk of transmission. The writer of the bill has adopted the view that such things were burdensome and needed further discussion, both in the General Assembly and in the community, and agreed that it would be more reasonable to wait and go over it rather at the total legal review of the law, which is said in the committee's opinion to have to be done. This is an enormous burden and needs discussion. It's a road to the Constitutions of the citizens of the country. If a discussion of this again, to form in the overall legal review of the law, we Piratars, whoever sits here at the council and only Pirats over their heads, of course take a critical stand on them, but it has not been necessary in an ongoing epidemic and it has been clearly published by a psychiatrist. The reasons why there has been no need for a curfew in Iceland, unlike what we've seen abroad, are widely written on Iceland's creation to be different from that of e.g. ... bigcity on the mainland. Our life - style is different, our cohesion, and our own organization is different in Iceland to form big cities. It can also be pointed out, and it has been shown, that a multiplicity of infection results have made it possible for in the event of infection to respond quickly and safely, not to the same dangers as travel and many other places. It's not just like fire through an entire city. We have a contagion and can give strong evidence that by means of a carrier, which works so well and is quick and safe at the time of infection, moderate risk is being taken rather than by e.g. A curfew. I'll only come back on curfew later and how burdensome such an arrangement is. The opinion of Páll's Hreinsson, on which the bill was based, was presented in September. There Páll set out the points that he feels are necessary to attack now and then, by permission of a president: After testing the diastolic tolerance of existing disease control laws in the EU, it is reasonable that the cumulative experience is weighed and evaluated and that the necessary changes in the law have been made so that the disease management board is better equipped to meet the next epidemic. Prior to this overall re-examination, the key issues of the law should be immediately corrected, including to ensure that all necessary authority is given by the competent authorities. It's, in my opinion, the most critical point in all this work. This is an introduction to the bill's contract, and this should always have been the course from start to finish and done fast and fast. But all is well that ends well, and we have reached the point where we are in the long process of firing needed improvements under existing preventive measures. Hreinsson's son, however, naturally says that an accumulated experience is weighed and appreciated, and I want to agree with that view and to address the need for it. That, a respectable president, is so important. In some cases, the effects of disease prevention have been very difficult for individuals, families, businesses, educational institutions, and art and culture. It is safe to say that the entire area of daily living as we know it has been affected by the burdensome effects of disease prevention, which have been required to protect the lives and welfare of Icelandic society. The results of the day's news are surely to be celebrated, and it also indicates that because of the results we are reaping, there will be a possibility of cutting down the limit of society sooner than expected. But I want to emphasize how it has worked. Why has the presence of a contractor been successful in controlling the virus? Because there has been open and honest conversation with society about these things. People have been kept informed. It has been difficult and difficult to face the consequences of these necessary actions. Among the very side effects of disease prevention, reports for domestic violence have been increasing since the epidemic began. It comes back on curfew regulations. We can see that in a foreign country where curfew has been imposed, the figures have been even higher than here, when domestic violence and such have increased. Similarly today, a whole generation of young people who are temporarily deprived of certain factors, educational opportunities, social factors, to form sports, which, in fact, have enormous reserves for the development of drug abuse among young people. This will keep in focus the plans for the overall re-examination of the law and the importance of looking to the impact of disease prevention, that cumulative experience is weighed and evaluated, that we can view this globally with the greatest and best information to be able to make objective decisions in the future, since all are likely to develop another epidemic sooner or later, hopefully later, hopefully. This afternoon's program has called for an increased assessment of the economic effects of hard work. I agree with that. I agree with the importance of being examined at the same time and that most of the people are placed at the table so that we can have a good view of how things will affect our community without having anything to do with it, and some of the elements of interest begin to pull in different directions and weaken the barriers used to prevent disease prevention. Similarly, the longer the more efficient measures are, the more likely the balance between protecting the lives of a nation by disease prevention measures and the greater risk of problems threatening to develop when people hold back from seeking medical help, even the closer they can be identified and the slower they can be found. Motion is also an important factor for health, and we have seen that older citizens have been isolated for longer periods during the past year. So the fact that social connections are vital for man and for young people and children, it is vital that we look at the balance of these factors. A respectable president. My manager also turned to what was stated in the review of Iceland's Medical Association, which made a note that it did not include in preparation for these changes. In view of the role of a disease prevention stake in existing disease control laws, this must be considered a strange mechanism. Of course, the original law on this bill has been removed. That is a good change, for it contained a measure of authority. But it has to do with what I'm talking about, it needs as many people at the table as possible. other medical groups with other expertise as time goes by, although you have, of course, full sympathy that this was a time of crisis in the past year and you were trying to get ahead in a certain darkness. But now we need to start talking as a community and society about these things and how we want to see the future. I find it important that the recruitment role of a disease prevention stake be respected and that as much expertise is at the table when making decisions. The committee that I post my name on in advance, which I have now made aware of, speaks of an intertrial requirement and an average evaluation. I'd like to remind you, too, that moderate behavior is something we always need to promote in a discussion. Sometimes there are other ways to reach the same goal, but those that first seem to be logical. Remember, the legal arrangement is that although the current government is secure in society, we do not know who the future rulers will be, and it is important that all laws that go so close to the rights of the citizens are taken to earth with caution. But I'm glad it's this far, and I thank you for the work being done on the committee. She only rattled, but everything's good that ends well and I'm glad it's a more objective kind and come to this place right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Actually, I didn't quite reach the beginning, but I sat up here and heard the big talk. On the other hand, I am thinking about these thoughts or speculations, " Some people want everyone to be vaccinated. ' Now I can't remember if there are precedents in Iceland that we set such a rule or decide that people don't have a choice whether they are going to be vaccinated. Hence, there may be no precedent for this even once. I just want to hear from the senator if there are any risks that may involve not all having to be vaccinated and at the same time that it might be a little bit more aware of the view that people are supposed to have a choice. There's a perfectly cool view, there's nothing wrong with that view. However, it is important that we also hear the evidence for the reasons why people should not take the vaccine. I'm going to have a vaccination myself, and I've decided on it. In itself, I feel that a person is carrying out certain responsibilities. But you also need to understand that some may be afraid of this, that some may not believe in it, and that some may be afraid to get sick. There are natural examples of this. Then you wonder: " Is it too far out with the idea of putting it as an obligation for all to receive vaccinations? It would be curious to hear: If the senator believes that this is not the case, why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u92	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Over the counter, Gunnar Sveinsson Sjörnson, and I'm glad to explain my position on related vaccinations and vaccinations. We have been vaccinated here in Iceland for decades against many very dangerous diseases; measles, meningitis. Perhaps the head of the committee is better, a professional physician, about exactly what diseases we will be dealing with in Iceland. In the past, the idea has been made that parents should not be obliged to vaccinate their children against these problems, but a psychiatrist has said that unfortunately this is not the goal. Because it has been tried to have a mandatory course for vaccination, it has worked against the objective. In any case, it seems to me that in any case, there's an enormously powerful argument for the legislature. If the goal is to obtain as many children as possible to have or to vaccinate before Covid, the vaccination course would interfere or reduce the likelihood that the objectives would be met. That, of course, is just a reasonable view. The rest are these constitutionrs our rights as individuals, as I entered them. They belong to us, and it is extremely difficult to get close to them. Yes, there may be times when that is the case. I may be able to answer this point better when I come up here later. I'm going to tell you more about it then. Time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u93	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is well on his way to explain this to me. In case of a moment. A senator has a later answer only to tell me more about how he can work against his goals if people are obliged to do so. Will there be some disobedience in society? Do people view their rights as being trampled on and therefore choose to ignore them? It's like this. It was also this, whether we are, if we are under obligation to go to vaccination, to violate their right to a constitution, or whether we are giving all the others the benefit of the doubt, whether we can say that some sort of moderate conduct is going on, that by obliging all and following it closely, all of us are being protected, as well as many as others, would become ill and could be hurt by some sort of harm. And if the time comes, I began to think, " If there are any viewpoints that are dealing with, there are some groups to be required, I don't know, depending on age or social status, i.e. importance? I'm not talking about position. I'm talking about priorities or those we can't stay without; doctors and nurses and things. They are to be vaccinated but allowed for e.g. Councilmen Choose? Granted, few people claim that we are essential. It's that kind of torture, but hopefully we'll have a chance to discuss it a little bit later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u94	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the second questions. I'm gonna cut this down a little. Every time, it is the natural issue of politics, where this line lies. We have this community covenant, which is the Constitution of our rights, individually. This is what we have agreed on as a work plan based on what we want the legislatator to think. Then, of course, there's an emergency and an emergency. In the present pandemic, we have seen that we have had to go outside our community covenant. It has really been necessary to go beyond those rights that we want each one of us to enjoy in our community. As for the required vaccination, this has been demonstrated abroad - and we received a memo on how it is in neighboring countries, whether there is a mandatory vaccination. The short answer was no, they have not been taken care of. Yes, there is a risk of resistance and that those who had previously accepted a vaccination would resist it. I don't think it takes much ideas to see where it can lead. As I say, it reduces the objective and the protection of the life and health we want to protect. In fact, what now enters the border may be the best example of such. A legal decision had to be made on two counts, and a psychiatrist did so because a few people were going beyond what was desirable for our community. But they need to take a dramatic stand on this matter, and I expect it will also be done in the overall legal review of Covid, in terms of world-class epidemics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, in my opinion, the longest law should avoid the obligation to medication in healthy subjects at any time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u95	V.E.G. President. It's a good discussion that will take place here today where we will discuss the treatment laws. We've had an excellent job on a welfare committee, and there's been quite a number of problems that I believe are a good knowledge of. But when I read the committee opinion, I sometimes feel that I am moving the problem forward, that since we might want to complete this legal procedure, certain aspects of the matter are being directed into the phase that they will be taken into consideration for a complete review of the law. I recall asking when such a review of the entire law should be carried out. That reminds me that the answer was the next fall. Yet, it was not intertwined in time. We got quite good reviews, and it seems to me that most of the people have been given a place in the Committee opinion, e.g. A local hospital for immediate reexamination to help ensure that management and the role of a psychiatrist and surgeon would be more clear as well as the role of hospitals and other health institutions. I feel that we have handled several aspects of this element in particular. Yet, there is still something left for further work in a complete review. According to the National Medical Association of Iceland, it was hard to believe that it would not have been consulted in the treatment of disease prevention. When the council presented the committee, it stressed that it had not been called in the process of doing this. It hurts a little bit. We usually feel that it is better for more people than fewer people to come along because of a better view of things. I don't feel clear enough about the dating role of a D.A., so I didn't mean that there's no doubt as to which dating role it should play. The commission says, with permission of the president: According to Iceland's Medical Association, the Society, for example, points out: should have considered it normal to maintain and support the dating role of a disease prevention device. Medical organisations have received indications that in the present pandemic, there has been little use of aseptic advice for counseling. It is important to highlight the recruitment role of a disease prevention centre as well as for the prevention of preventing policies in the cross-examination process. That's where I would have liked to speak strong, but I understand that more than my own viewpoints are being met. The committee also emphasizes the goal of developing a change in the role of the Council in consultation with the partner in the proposed overall review of these laws. Somehow, the role of a disease prevention team is to be changed from the current level. My point is that this advice should be strengthened rather because of what I told earlier that I felt better when more people arrive but fewer. I also feel that it is a little blow because in other places, we feel very important to have more medical professions at all. Our nose is an example of a nurse who is one of the most important links to the system. That must have been a good discussion. There's been border action, and I'd like to mention only that most of those who come here to the country will come through the Chefavour Airport. I don't know if we have to fix it in some way that there's a place where people can take their own contours there, even if only in part, so that people are not obliged to continue their journey exhausted. I only know the Poles who work here and come back after Christmas break. They have talked about their behavior in a somewhat uncertain way. They have even stepped up on an internal plane to get infected elsewhere because at the time of their previous screening, they are merely digested by their phone that they don't have Covid, and they just keep going. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind and try to spread that message. Although we may find this to be clear, many people who are not completely clear and order their domestic flights think they are just completely safe and will not infect others, since they do not have Covid. When I point out that it is important that we have a place for people who come, you can also bear in mind that many people have already driven a long distance to an international airport in their own country. So they sit on a plane, but we know how tired we will be of it, and there we need to drive again in all kinds of move to the end zone. But that was it. I just thought it was important to get in. I'm on the committee's opinion in advance because, as I came in earlier, I don't think it's right to reduce the number of people who make decisions as I think they're headed for. I have to say, I would have liked it better if we had taken this step earlier and had specialized the outbreak of crown virus. I'm having a bit of a hard time seeing how to handle this now that we're sort of getting out of the code. Perhaps it would have been better to start by putting the law sooner and then add to it or to act on what had to be done. Because we've only talked about curfews today, I'd like to bring up another runt I've got. The commission says, with permission of the president: The Committee gives the Commission an overview of as extensive an intervention in the Constitution rights of people as does curfew require detailed coverage that will be found at a better site on a total legal review. We are again wondering about setting rules on curfews, and we are discussing these laws. I think it's something special. I also say it's important that we change the law so that we have a clear improvement for the action taking place. However, I would have liked to take care of the specification of Covid earlier. It has only been discussed with the required vaccination, which I am naturally opposed, and it is not set down here. People can have various reasons, underlying diseases, and other causes. Also important is the fact that we have done an amazingly good job in preventing the disease. In the past day, we saw that a psychiatrist was thinking that the rules and restrictions could be relax, even before February 17. I think many will celebrate if possible. I hope that it will work, but not so that people start to relax much that we need to tighten in two days later. I also agree with what you say. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter, who mentioned and well understood the consequences of the effects of domestic violence. She discussed social development between children and young people and economics. I just want to add to it and talk about mental health. We know that trauma later takes place in the spiritual field but in the physical sense. More important, people are taking longer to deal with the spiritual harm they experience. It is said that it usually takes three times longer to recover spiritually than it does physically. Then I cannot allow myself to mention only a consequence of what I think is due to the pressures of the whole system, the more serious situation that now seems to be up - to - date for cancer screening in which accusations are cast. I think it's very important that things get to the right place as soon as possible. We have both women and men who now have complete and complete uncertainty about how to get it right. I think I'm gonna make this work for a while, but I'm gonna say it's important that we set these laws. I'm on the committee in advance, though.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u96	Mr. President. We are here at the end of a discussion and work with the government's bill on the change in social protection laws, which include permission to improve under certain government control measures by restricting people's freedom, freedom of movement, and employment freedom. The objective, as noted, is to explain current disease prevention laws based on the experience of a pandemic crown virus and to prevent the trial of government protection, uncertainty about their authority. That's good, and it's fine. The big picture, the last weeks and months, and to simplify the film, the discussion has been about the need to get it over with, i.e. These legislations, especially to the point that visitors on the border may be required to make double screenings in between, that the law is unconvinced, but a psychiatrist has for some time stressed that this route will be gone and given good evidence to his case there. However, the debate has then turned to the fact that this massive change in disease - control laws, which the bill does not mean is timely now, not until the full impact of the Korean virus epidemic has been evaluated in Icelandic society. We're still in the middle of the code, though the end of it is grilled. These voices are then aware that such dramatic changes are more likely to take place on a global inspection, a public examination of disease laws. Hv. paritaprevir In her earlier speech, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir noted that such a review would be made on the first, the next autumn even. It's very important to sound, i.e. the obligation to double screening of the border, based on clear corrections. The possibility of an interaction, if we're flogging this particular point, was of course there, i.e. to provide temporary adjustments in current disease prevention laws, changes in these sources, and then to wait for further changes in the law. But this is the course that was decided to take, so it came to the top. Healthcare Minister this bill until the end of the year. Because of the nature of the matter, some were quite specific, for many people were consulted. On the one hand, they rejoiced that the law was being explained, I think we all feel that way, and it is important in this unprecedented situation that we now live in. But then each with his nose pointed to a problem on the bill, and many came to realize that the extent of the change in this particular matter now, the change being made today, would not be directly correlated with the need in some way that would be more specific. The Commission's proposals are a great improvement, and I have been described by an audience as having agreed with the Commission opinion and I can't see anything else when I'm overrated than to consider their comments, those committees, and am convinced that in some way if certain aspects of change are not taken into account. But that's quite a number of adjustments. However, it still needs to be noted that by law a specific rationalization and a thorough assessment of the effect of the government scale that limits citizens' freedom, especially employment freedom, before changing them, guarantees that limitations will not go beyond the necessary limits and that full reforms will occur. This law may have gone further, and I assume that this may be one of the main points we take in our major reviews, so we know how this has really affected. I also believe it is important to ensure that there are more ministers than the highest. The health minister comes to such decisions as this, that the Ministers to which the community's branches are represented are involved, e.g. that the Minister of Education comes to decisions that affect and impair school or sports, that financial and economic ministers, and after the events of a professional minister, will come to decisions to stop the work. That's the way you keep counting. Hv. In a speech earlier today, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson stated that the experience of the epidemic would have to be used before we make a complete review. I'll agree with that. It is important that there is an overall assessment before a larger review, and that will be expected to occur, and I can only imagine that we will all agree on that. The changes achieved by a welfare committee are in my opinion not merely for improvement but simply absolutely essential, since there was a willingness to go into this massive change at this stage. Without a list of all the changes made, some have been well considered here today. But the most extensive - and I may have come to the end why I specifically specify them, why I don't just say, "It was different, and we're good." But in a medical bill, a total curfew was reported. Such a warrant would have given the minister unprecedented authority to limit the basic rights of the citizens without the criteria and support or monitoring of this authority. Happily, the commission gained solidarity in removing this warrant. There is also a law, which was in the original bill presented by the minister, by which a minister was authorized by a decree that he obliging tourists to submit to immunizations. This was canceled by the Committee. And then there is this special authority to stop the job without following detailed guidelines on what is involved in such a need, how to evaluate and what is right to repair the damage resulting from this. These are the limitations of job rights and the limitations of property rights that simply involve the governmental rights of people. When the State takes the value of possession, law guarantees full benefits, not when income volumes of individuals and companies are stopped on the basis of cross-cutting laws. Here, the welfare committee proposes an important modification proposal, which, however, extends as far as it reaches, by permission of the President: ▪ Business management should only be stopped to the extent that the operation carries a risk of outbreaks such as the number of people involved or close to it or to touch them. These factors are that, at the same time and very important and positive, the welfare committees have agreed to stop them, there is a certain concern that this was on a bill submitted by the government minister. Because of the fact that it is and the way all the welfare committees handled things, I intend to use the opportunity and the importance of the meeting's arrival when it comes to government authority to cut people's freedoms, especially professional freedom of movement and freedom of movement. It has been said that while no cases have been mentioned, the council does not have to deal with these matters. I don't think there are other examples of how quickly and well this has been handled. However, it has been said that there is a delay in going through the council. And here we are living with a school textbook example that if the council had not been more comfortable with this matter, would the Senate not have agreed to take these regulations out, we would be on a very dangerous path in the time of violation of people's freedom. So if someone doubts about the importance or talked about something better, that individual ministers would have legal rights, freedom to act themselves to impair the freedom of others, I hope that by means of these community welfare committees the same would make it clear that the council plays an important role in protecting people's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son before the talk. I was on that committee one meeting the other day when this bill was being discussed. It's a big deal, it's fragile on the way. There have been a number of talks that have been presented today. Congress officials are concerned about overlaps, where politics should be introduced, and then the Pathologist, or Disease Controller, and so on. But there is one thing I'd like to mention that may not directly involved this bill, but we politicians have been concerned about and carelessly many Americans, i.e. how much it takes to get on the economy side. We ask ourselves, " What is the day when I can get the wind, so my business bike begins to return? ' The situation today is said to cost a billion a day. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I assume the senator is concerned about this, whether she can look into that prophetic ball, and tell when we're going to see the wheels spinning again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u98	Thank you. A senator for the answer and the question, which, in fact, is a pretty wide question and a giant case and is indirectly related to the case we're discussing here, i.e. sterilization procedures. If I let myself look at this as wide as it is. A senator would like to say that I think the big issue is - I'm going to go into the treatment of disease because, of course, we're discussing them here -- that I sometimes feel that I'm forgotten by those who have been more critical of disease prevention because of the restrictions they put on employment, that the enemy's not the disease prevention procedure, but the Korean virus. I am convinced that even though these resources, with the right restrictions on employment here on the country, could not see the light, they would be lifted. We can see this only when we look at the conditions in the countries around us and when we appreciate the value of tourism and its impact. To tell you the truth, I have no sense of when we see a country. We can go that way, and they sound, that we can keep our little, shut up, and open some little places, as far as it reaches. Some got their weapons, but they'd only be camping for one night. Well, we have everything to do with the world, the big community, getting their weapons on this case and getting our tourism back up and other natural foreign trades. I think what we can do best is to be prepared here so that our little economy, our community, will be all right when it comes to it. [[The president calls.]] We may need to focus primarily on this now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u99	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It may have been a little unfair to ask that question. For my sake, I have to say that I have often enjoyed listening to what I had to say. A senator discusses politics and sees how a member of the council watches life and life. That is why I trusted the senator to ask himself that question. But what has been said in this discussion, and even something before, is whether governments should not have stepped in earlier than always hiding behind the authorities. In so doing, the council or politics could have come to these other delicate issues sooner. I want it to come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u100	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his good words to me. That's how I interpret it; good words to me. It's a huge question, and it's no smaller than the other one. First, it is a little easy to look back and be wise afterwards. Similarly, it is difficult to stand here and take some view of matters when the fact is that you know better than before. If I am to be completely honest, I feel that in many respects we have done well. I find it a lot easier to bring up the objective criticism of government conversation with the council when it comes to economic procedures than with the insistence oftractive treatments, just so I say it for myself. I would have liked to see the council arrive there and that the strength of the council was used in that process, but I'm not necessarily sure that I would have liked to see the politics in general take more on preventative measures than they have in the past few months. [[The president calls.]] But it's kind of a discussion that needs more space.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u101	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for her fine speech as well as thanking her for her cooperation during the course of her visit. The welfare committee on this matter. As the senator came in, there was quite good talk in the committee about all sorts of solutions that we had to deal with. One subject mentioned by the senator was compulsory vaccination, or authorization for a mandatory national vaccination. I agree with the senator that it was wise to keep this point in the bill to examine matters carefully. But then it really comes to the question. Now it's like 1 1 1. The bill is largely based on comparable regulations from the World Health Organization for Iceland, which stipulates permission to immunisation on the border or government authority to require immunizations on the border. I'd like to talk to the senator about this. Are we here in that much different position, i.e. Our general attitude as a country, as a nation, as a community, and as a group, is that we should have other views than the other nations? Or are all the rest out there somewhere?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u102	President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, everyone else is out there. But for any pleasure, there may be two things I'd like to mention. First, I am personally against such responsibilities. I'm aware of that as a dog. A senator enters, these suggestions are very similar to those of the Regulation. I believe, however, that we are a community in a much different and better position than there are a lot of other communities to use education and other methods, at least Before we take up this strategy that must always be our last resort. This may not be the least of the reasons why I say that this law should have always been contained in a much larger pack of revisions that would not be taken up at the times we are living now because it is a huge question. Now, it is said that we are just beginning to see the first round of very dangerous disease that will make the world cry, perhaps the dark vision of the future, and we will be here in a decade to talk about everything else and more important to protect human life. But we are here now, and we should take such large questions that concern so much fundamentally in a much more thoughtful way than in the middle of the code. That's kind of the thing. On the one hand, I think we are better equipped to reach the goal in another way. If not, we need to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u103	Mr. President. Just so they say, I agree with the senator, I agree with her as far as she's concerned. I find this step very burdensome, and it's a major change in how I at least feel about it. I've thought about these matters so far, we can't take it lightly. I also hope that the senator's pessimism predicts that more epidemics will not go on. But I don't know. It's just that way. I then wanted to cross-examine the coming of the council, whether it is normal for the council to arrive at it, let's say that the clock of the executive action in the Commission, or that it may be just a very burdensome procedure or special case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u104	Mr. President. I am a very optimistic person, and I was here to recite the pessimism of others, just to be maintained. My crystal ball is much brighter. But with this question about the council, I'm not entirely sure that I've reached the point. A senator, then, is governmental action that includes burdensome intervention and, in my opinion, denounces the very nature of the council's need to be made available to him. Government action by other sources, I don't know which existing law - I'm having a bit of a problem answering this. I would have needed more than an example from what happened. A senator to get into it. But I like this job so much that she's already built a little route, it's been an example of how Congress has both come and needs and can come to. [[The president calls.]] Voices about other things are a little, of my knowledge, laid in place by this example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u105	Mr. President. I thank the senator for an interesting speech. I took note that the senator spoke very gently, but in fact, he usually does, as others might be able to learn. But what I'm wondering is this compulsion -- I don't necessarily use that word, but I have a certain English word in mind that I'm trying to translate the ◆tendency, or tendency, there it came, the compulsions are so ugly. [[Taken out: a bow.]] The tendency to use violence or power is very rich when it comes to problems. Hv. A senator came, even you will start thinking: Wait, there are hundreds of people who have lost their jobs in this epidemic all together, others have lost their assets, some even shut down now, etc. Do we agree that there should not be a full compensation when the reason for business shut down, people being dumped, is the government's decisions, even when they are taken with good intentions? I'm just worried about this, that maybe it's not completely clear, maybe it would have been necessary to clarify it better, and maybe it's the goal of doing it with other laws or in the big reexamination. I also wondered, " Would it not have been closer to include a special bill with this whole matter to make sure that if we were making burdensome rules, we would also be saying that some compensation would come back, the full benefits that come to us, as it does to the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u106	Mr. President. I thank the senator very much for the counter, and this is a very important point. This is the complete key and clear result of these measures and the damage it brings to individuals and companies, whether it is a property damage or a loss of employment with subsequent property damage, it is important that procedures taken as evidence and should always be considered to be taking action to protect more interests, that is always so, knowing that, on the other hand, benefits are involved. This is exactly one of the reasons why the evidence was not that this huge change was being done so quickly today. Rather, it would have to be developed because we are a little in new territories. Now I need the word. In other words, we are following an unsettled path in this regard. It's just that way, we're there. This can be reversed in some way and say: We also need to be careful that government obligations are not so great and rich that governments are afraid to take action that will truly protect people's lives and health. This discussion has not been taken sufficiently, and when it is standing up and the dust is settled, we look back, and if the conclusion is that there was a very burdensome procedure that would not have been needed in the light of the situation, it is something that will not be considered readily. I'm having trouble answering this in another way. I'm basically in agreement, and I think this must be the basis of an overall review of these laws, that we go over it, and it's absolutely certain that we don't walk too much, though nothing, but we'll always have to do it in some way if we're going to use these laws, on the rights of this matter. It's a huge project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u107	V.E.G. President. A man was a little surprised when this bill appeared, surprised and not surprised, the tone was a bit meddled, if it can be said so, in the bill. I'd like to move on a little bit, maybe not a direct question, but I also wondered when the state or state agency does not stand up or make some decision, we know a good example, surveillance, or preventative measures failed in one of our major clinics, so many people got infected and died. Later, action was taken. Who is to suffer the loss of action against the caterers or when the land is closed or something like that? This is a decision that was made because some sort of mistake or accident. To simplify this, we need to explain the responsibility of the state, where it lies, and at the same time where the benefits are due because these decisions taken can cause considerable damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u108	Mr. President. I couldn't agree with you more. It is a project of interest that takes place not only in the past but also in times where we may not necessarily have access to the information we need. In part, decisions are made by understanding, in part by pressure, in part by fear and some part of the willingness to protect the lives and health of the citizens, the first obligation by the government. I might want to, because there wasn't a direct question next to him. A senator, coming back only to what he said at the outset, i.e. that in the days of our lives, some authorities are tempted to go further. I was a little different when I first saw the bill. That may be what is especially learned, and we need to be on guard, which is that the council has this approach. There must be commendation for the conduct of individual diplomats in this matter. I'll just say it here. We in the smaller part, and we what. A senator well knows this, would not have had much to say in our comments on this matter if the more part had come together. [[The president calls.]] This shows the experience and it's positive, i.e. that this was the case with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u109	Mr. President. I think there is good reason to agree with the thanks that has been shown during this discussion. well-being committee who's done a good job handling this bill here at the council. This is an important bill in the sense that it involves both important interests and was time, sort of a long time. I can say right away that on the autumn days, I was starting to worry myself that the sources of disease laws were relatively weakened under many of the measures taken by the government. I can tell you that in spring, when I and maybe more people had hoped that this was a difficult situation that would happen over a few weeks, a man would think less of these things than when it started to happen to a man in August and September that the forced action would have to be repeated and they might have lasted much longer than we had realized in advance until then, a man began to examine it differently. I think that in mid - August, I wrote a magazine article that called attention to this and spoke on other occasions that in some way the laws that the government provided would be strengthened in the decision - making process that made it important to do so. So, of course, I was immediately rejoicing at the highest. In November, a health minister gave his bill, thinking that it was long time for these details to be revised. My opinion has not changed that in many cases the current disease control laws contain relatively weak sources. It refers to certain authorities and health minister's permission for regulations in the regulations of the current legislation, which are relatively open and generally expressed, and in some cases provide very limited support to some of the measures laid down in the regulations of the Ministers and have been included in the Member States. magazines are being discussed in the last few weeks. Then I'm talking about cross-border measures, and I can also mention actions that are subject to cutoffs of business management and such conditions as infection. The government responded, the government responded in the fall, and it moved Páll Hreinsson, a law professor, and a judge to make a certain assessment that was beneficial. She did not answer all the questions, and Páll did not, of course, say, "Is this a legal function? " But his good report contained many indications that could then be taken further and appeared in a bill. In fact, the U.S. Marshal of the Council may also send a reminder to the government or a tip like this in October, which must also have been a failure to encourage people to marvel at the review of the regulations of disease control. As mentioned in 1st. about this bill at the council, I was imprisoned and personally didn't quite agree with all its features, and I made comments to individual factors. I had the opportunity to do some committee work. I think I was a deputy of two or three committee meetings, but I didn't come to the end of the commission or the adjustment. However, I agree with the members of the committee that the discussion on the committee was quite good, and I think the committee discussed most of the factors that were relevant to the transmission of the bill. With this, I think I can say in a measure of good conscience that the bill that such a thing has largely involved improvements from current legislation and the changes in the course of action. The welfare committee suggests improvement from the bill. We can say that this would go in the right direction, from my point of view, although I did not deny that I would have wanted to go further in some ways. Let's just leave it alone. In order to reach such a conclusion, compromise may have to be made, and while the main policy is improved, you may accept that all the views you would like to voice are not met. What I wanted to be able to do especially in this regard is a factor that's been brought up to a considerable extent here. First of all, it is about the way things get better under burdensome action on the part of the government, and second, how to ensure that principles that should be respected with such burdensome decisions will be best carried out. I agree with the views expressed by several members of the council here today, that although there is not a complete solution, at any rate it is positive that the council, such as it, has more to decide on these issues than has been. It is different for a minister to propose to the council that certain measures should be taken than to take steps and come back to the council to support it. There's a difference. When a suggestion is made, if we can say so, about using burdensome measures, it needs to be reasoned in more detail and other ways if the matter is offered in any way before the council. It's different. If a bill is submitted, logical support must be provided by that bill. This is not required in accordance with the regulations published. It is published without going through a discussion in a democratic field. Rulemakers are often presented in the government, and there may be talk about them in closed doors, but this is different from the debates taking place at the council. Such discussions can present comments, criticism, and episodes that are relevant to the final outcome. I believe it is generally better that such discussions take place before the decision is made than after it is taken. This is my general approach to this subject. So I believe it would be beneficial if the coming of the council was ensured in a clearer way than it is now. It is also simply about what should be in the law itself and what should be in the Regulation. That is a question we need to consider. I believe that in a law that involves a violation of the Constitution rights, what can be decided and how and on what occasion. I think it's making some changes. The welfare committee is to some extent opposed to comments on this point in the treatment of the case on the committee. Whether that's adequate, I don't know. Perhaps I would have wanted to go further than that of the bill because it is, of course, that when the Constitution says something should be done by law, it is because of something. In the case of a violation of various basic rightss, whether it is personal or professional rights, or what is now, that is tested in connection with the implementation of alcohol control measures, it is quite clear that the Constitution requires legal action. Then, when it is passed into law, in my opinion it will not be enough to say, so I allow myself to witness freely in the current law that a psychiatrist can recommend to the minister in the Regulation any restrictions that can produce results in the prevention of the spread of epidemic disease. It must be better defined, better defined. The bill certainly involves improvement from current law in this regard. I think that's the right way to make changes in the welfare committee's proposals. However, legal violations of governmental rights are fundamental. It is not only, as I mentioned earlier, that the matter be given the needed discussion before making a decision. But it also, in part, rests on the thought that the only ones who can impair the Constitution rights are those who are democratically elected representatives of the Allied Council and then have a responsibility to voters. That's what I wanted to mention in this relationship, and without taking any further into consideration, I'm glad to hear it. The welfare committee has only taken steps to better determine when certain measures should be applied. I think it might have been allowed to go further in it and further explain in the bill text or the song text itself when it would be permitted to take burdensome action, what the scope of such action should be, and what their limitations are in time and bed. I think it would have been good to go even further in that regard. There are also improvements in the bill that it is required to uphold various principles of both the administration and the administration rights of our administration for moderate and equal measure and the like. This does not change the legal situation to the point of taking a moderate rule, a system of equality, and other such principles today. This is not to say that while the text of the Law is plainly written to be moderate, there is a new rule to be made. The average value is equal today as after this bill was approved and with equal talk. Writing into the bill text to watch for equality or moderate honor does not make a new legal rule possible in this regard. It is good to make a decision so that those who work in the law and work by law are constantly reminded that these principles need to be taken care of. Also important in this regard may be the fact that when it comes to applying such rules, a person needs to be able to reason on how he or she is moderate and to reason on the need to argue that equality is being taken care of. It is not enough, as it has sometimes been said here, that people just say, " Of course I had an equal situation. ' Of course, I had in mind a moderate degree. It is important that there is little logical explanation for how these principles of administration and administration were followed by the decision-making process. But let it be. This is positive about the bill, and it's good that it's also deserved. The welfare committee. There is one point, following a discussion that has taken place here, and there's concern that sometimes arises because it is so heavy in the water and hovering that it needs decisions or rules for the council. It has, of course, been suggested that in recent years we have had to intervene, for example. strike with legalization. This has even been done so that such decisions have been made throughout the council in one or two days, legal returns that have resulted in the discontinuation of strikes, and subsequent treatments. It's been possible to do so. This has resulted in the democratic election of the Allied Council making decisions on the deterioration of the constitutions of rights that are being impaired in those cases. We also have many examples over the past few years that if the interests have been in the way of something necessary, they have been passed through the council by the legal products that have included economic arrangements or other such measures in a relatively short period of time. After the collapse, we carried countless legal adjustments through the council in a short period of time that was important, protected great interest in many, and had to take place quickly, sometimes so that it had to be settled from the financial markets closing down at the time. Four and before they opened again. Nine the next morning. The Senate took on that task and was able to finish it. But the advantage of making such decisions with either administrative or administrative policies, a Minister's Regulation, was that although it took only a few hours at the council, the bills or the suggestions were being discussed were given on a particular discussion here. They were discussed in a committee. There they gave the opportunity to call for different viewpoints. One who offered the suggestions, a minister, or after an incident had to preexamine what he was going to do and why. That's what I think is most likely out of this matter that I don't feel that I'm sufficiently careful with the assembly. I think those who have agreed that the law should be very public and within the regulations, as I understand. issue of the Ministry of Health, overemphasis the problem of passing the council. I think people are overemphasizing it, and I am impressed that it is always so time - consuming or difficult to make certain decisions for the council. And when I talk about decisions in this relationship, of course, I'm not talking about some special government decisions that need to be made day by day. I'm talking about rules, when changing rules for weeks or months or things like that. This can be handled lightly through the council if it can be demonstrated by the need and importance, and it does not have to be worried that the council will stop it if there is real proof that it is important and necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u110	Mr. President. I apologize for how long it takes me to get into a pit, it's a long way to my seat, and after yesterday, I don't think any Middle House senator will run anything for the next few weeks. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir man of the Ármannsson is very eager to give him an excellent speech. I was trying to figure it out from the committee's opinion and then asked why. Our member of the Central Institute of Health, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's Daughter, and it seems to me that comparison with the Norwegian court may not have been much of a practice in the process of this case. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress whether he believes that there might be improvement, for the sake of the case, that the committees merely look at how laws have been performed in the North countries last year, which have a law system similar to ours, and where humans have responded to a situation similar to ours, we are dealing with late and eventually. It may not be particularly appropriate to make such comparisons now, just in view of the intertwined situation here, is the situation in which we so often compare ourselves with those nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u111	Mr. President. I think it's always useful to monitor legislation and discussion on legislation in the North countries, especially in those countries that are inclined to like law. Legally and properly, we are responsible for the Dana and Norwegians in these matters, but they can provide helpful suggestions, ideas, or suggestions based on the experience of Swea and Finn. While I have observed in detail the details of what is going on in these countries, I do know that this week is Denmark, and the last one, was about changes in disease laws in the dance council, and after my information, there have been a wide range of views similar to those presented in the discussions here. Now I don't know what the situation is today, but I've been talking about a prime minister in Denmark about the change in social laws, just a discussion of the meeting's arrival in decisions. When the first few articles were presented there before Christmas, it was criticized that the assembly had not been expected enough. This had changed to some extent when the bill was submitted and expected that, in certain cases, it would be carried out under a panel to determine whether certain measures should be taken. I think it may be useful to enter the discussions and viewpoints presented there, without any single model in these areas, and there are different paths in different countries around us. It opens my eyes to the fact that the discussion here is not unique. There are other countries where regulations in this field have to be met, e.g. to be limited in some way by consultation with the council, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the answer. Hv. In his speech, a member of the body was able to understand that with the changes made by the committee in a committee program, various aspects of the bill were being done better, but there were still things that the senator would have done better to move to a better source. There's not much time, but I pray. In short, a senator explains which points are best considered to be better handled in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u113	Mr. President. I made it up in my speech that I believed that the bill made progress from the current law and that the change would occur. The welfare committee would improve according to the bill as it was submitted. I think it's all getting up in the right direction, just to be said. I mentioned in my speech earlier that I thought that there might be a reason to better determine when certain burdensome measures could be taken. On the other hand, I realistically believe that the conclusion expressed in the opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee is a certain compromise of some viewpoint, and I do not intend to run away from the compromise that my members of the Committee have participated in. But if I was to mention one thing, I would say that there might be a better way to determine when action might be taken that involves burdensome arrangements for the Constitution of the rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I'd like to ask him a little bit about the fact that it has come out, including... from sectoral organisations, the need for governments to conduct an independent study of the epidemic in this country and how to deal with disease prevention, what the consequences have been on the economy of people and businesses, social and health consequences, and especially how to deal with similar events that may occur later. Now this study may not be designed to find someone who is guilty, not at all. However, there are questions to be answered in this relationship and to take full measures on the epidemic and its consequences and on the economic effects of the whole environment and then on the effects of individual disease prevention measures. Let us not forget that unemployment has been massive, has increased dramatically, and has had a major impact, and the consequences are serious. So here's the question: Is it safe to go to such an independent study? It will come, for example. in the review of Business Associations, it is reasonable for them to wait until the outbreak is over and the results of this independent study that would then be triggered. I'd like a guess. The senator on this, whether he doesn't think it's a reasonable way, so we'll learn from this and see what has worked and what doesn't work, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u115	Mr. President. I think maybe it's two separate cases. On the one hand, the question is, When do we feel it necessary to change current disease prevention laws to improve the measures being taken should be reasonably adequate, and then some form of follow-up or follow-up check which may result in the overall re-examination of disinfectants. I was determined to attend a meeting at a welfare committee when representatives from the National Association of Business Life came to explain their reviews and I could not understand their representatives so that the organization opposed the development of a targeted change now in order to solve the possible legal issues that exist regarding the improvement of individual disease measures. I understood a representative of the Labour Association that didn't come to a welfare committee so that they would resist any changes in disease laws now because they simply felt that they should have some overall reviews later. They were asked about this in particular. So I think it's two things. On the one hand, when indications have been made that there is a need to strengthen the improvement of some current measures or to be able to communicate, the task needs to be rapidly reached. But then I can totally agree as a future mouse that once we are out of this storm, it may be important to make a clear evaluation of what was successful and what was not and how we can learn from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is, and I'd like to come to something else. It's in the bill itself, 11. Article 24 of which says that if a non - Witness foreigner is authorized to dismiss measures authorized by a police officer from abroad, he may arrive in the country or up to seven days after his arrival. mg or it turns out he didn't follow them. We've seen news that, for example, this time we've seen it. Norway is just closing the land almost. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if he considers it sufficient to close the country by e.g. There are certain groups of people. For example, when there were very few tourists who came to the land, I mention that a small number of refugees came to the land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A candidate of adequate authority in these laws to shut down certain groups or countries, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u117	Mr. President. I think that's where we've entered a language that involves the interaction of foreigners and disease - control laws. I think what would simply happen in the present legal environment would be that under such circumstances we could not dismiss those who sought refuge. Then we'd have to go to the law code that fits it. But I just wanted to say, without me being an expert on conditions in neighboring countries, that when it comes to the news that this or that other country is closing or closing the country, it's not really that. Danir made a great announcement that they were shutting the country off because of people's trips. But then perhaps on two pages there are many exceptions. [[The president calls.]] As reports often found in news may exceed content. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a fairly clear and fine speech. There are two, three questions I began to ask myself under each speech. Senator. The Senator says that in some ways he would have wanted to go further, and then I think I understood why. A senator would have to explain the law, i.e. to go further, in effect, to say what you can say and what you cannot say. He later came into contact with his talk that the dissociation of the state's authority would need to include that. To be lighter. If we believe that there are grey areas in this area, that it is not completely clear whether the state is getting clearance or that its sources are clear enough or their delinquency, you ask yourself: " Is there any danger that some government might take advantage of this inexplicable limitation? Is it not better, then, to work out a little better and explain the matter further? This is what I'm wondering. Second, if there is any interpretation, we are opening up for the possibility of some sort of legal conflict, judicial issues, and the like, because of decisions based on these laws, i.e. if the result is not clear enough? Maybe it's the main thought that hit my head when it hit. A senator did well, and he has a very good overview of the whole matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u119	Mr. President. Of course, we must accept that it will never be totally black and white. It will always try to determine whether or not there is adequate authority. I believe that the bill and the modification proposals of more part make the sources clearer than they are today. We can say that certain limits to free food are tight. But we will probably soon reach the point where the law is so clear as to all the occurrences that may not be possible for legal differences. I don't think we'll ever reach that goal. But in view of the present situation, I think it's an improvement and improvement. I think we're reducing the number of legal opinions by putting this bill down, with the change in mind. The welfare committee proposes. You're right about what you're doing. In my speech, I felt that there was a possibility that I could go further in assigning these sources more fully and improving them. I think it's quite possible. As I have said before, I do not oppose the fact that the situation in this form is going through to fix what we are dealing with today. I don't mind that this is going to be over in this picture because it might be possible to do it a little better, just so it's clear. I would have liked to go further in some ways, but I can accept the compromise I see in the Committee to Help.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u120	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, I agree with him that it is very difficult to care for everything in the law. Of course, our role is what we are trying to do, to keep things as clear as possible. My knowledge was that there were basically two types of action waiting for us when the outbreak struck. On one hand, preventative measures in which we had to take the final steps, since we had to take action because of the epidemic. However, the resulting economic actions are involved. I may be getting this on the brain, I don't know, but I'm only busy with whether or not we've discussed well enough whether the government's actions may have caused unnecessary negative effects on the job, on the business, and as a result, possibly produced some damage to the State because of taking too important decisions, too vague, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u121	Mr. President. They're as cheeky as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is here with the nature of it that it will probably be out of the question only in the courts. If someone believes that he has been unjustly injured by government actions, such as. If adequate recovery is not supported, it will only be decided on trial. This I think was true of Páll's Hreinsson Purge and, actually, of the Generals' agent also regarding such questions. I myself, as I came to the beginning of my speech, have mentioned it in various fields since August, September, that there was a need to strengthen legal authority for the action being taken. My position in this matter has already existed, that it is at least In various cases, there are weak legal requirements. [[The president calls.]] I believe that the bill and the conversion proposals of the Committee are falling toward strengthening these sources, although there may not be a calmness in the whole of that relationship or of all doubt solved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u122	Mr. President. I'd like to speak briefly to the 2nd. the change in preventative law. There are a number of interesting issues that have been presented during the discussion today, and thankfully, members of the Parliament agree that the cooperation of a welfare committee has been successful. I just want to take this opportunity and wish you what it is. Congrats on the excellent work that has been done there, well. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. You can hear that here are members of Congress, which, as we may say, have been overstepped on certain factors but quite accept the implementation on the grounds that this is an improvement and a step toward what the person believes is satisfactory. In that case, it may be that some factors are on the lookout and that have been identified as a source and in what way to apply them. The only thing that surprised me perhaps about the committee's work is what I came up against it. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson earlier. It was just because I hadn't figured it out until then and it would be good if it hadn't. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson would take the time to return, but I can, of course, respond later to his speech. It would be interesting to hear the viewpoint of the prominent writer of the case as to whether it had not been reasonable, especially in view of how much agreement seems to be on the work of the committee, a small diagnosis of the Norwegian court, and how it has developed into the treatments of the past year. It is so common, as we know, to look to the Norwegian picture when working with new laws or reviewing current laws here at the council. If the case is to form a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. To examine this, it should not be hard to deal with or to delay the final payment. There is an end to the fact that there is a bit different but not money whether this case, which is now in progress 1 0, 11 months after the outbreak, will be completed a few days earlier or later in the final payment. In addition to this comment, I'd like to introduce to another point that we have discussed in the Committee, but I can't find a place in the Commission, on the other hand, in view of the views presented in the review of Einar S. Hálfdánarson-suspector of the Supreme Court and a legal accountant. With the permission of the President, I'm going to read a brief chapter from Einar's comments on exposés to the Commission: I am deeply concerned that such an extensive supply of power to the executives would be legal for the Republic of Iceland. Wll's. section of the Constitution is an arrangement for human rights, such as in the 67th paragraph. that no one can take freedom except by law. When reference is made to this authority that limitation is required, a law is passed by the Council. Seems to be a court of law, the Lawgiver imposes a very strict restriction on the expansion of such authority to the European Commission. Then there will be the legalization of such sources to take a moderate measure. Then, in his review, Einar S. Half - Hálfdánarson says that he believes that such a moderate measure is not covered, as the bill was proposed by a minister at the outset. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. It's the same thing. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of a year ago, in response to my counter, that if there was one point he thought might have been better off, it would be that the source, expeditation, and forced clearances that are being delivered to the governments by this legislation. I'm gonna give myself a break. I feel that after much discussion on the committee, the conclusion must have been, not to agree more with these views than to what is being done. I understand why. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, led to the conclusion of having a good name in this regard and to suggest that it would not be defined or defined more clearly than it is now. On the other hand, if the conclusion arises, there will be a committee between 2 and 3. environment, of course, is a very living environment now, the environment of the environment of the environment. I think it's been through, if I understand that correctly, two relatively large law columns in Denmark already. I can't remember a specific date when the first change was adopted, but it was relatively soon after the epidemic began. In contrast, in the best sense of the word, small medicine, we have been in much more here. We have been dealing with very specific matters, and most of them have been in the economy. The government has allowed itself, I think it's safe to say, to interpret very much the sources they have under current law. It takes no more than to listen to and look at the viewpoints of the various lawyers who have pointed to, without great objections, that governments are stretching it and pulling it deeply into the present state. Hence, it is a bit surprising that we are in this situation, doing this work now so long after the epidemic called, and so it is. If the matter is addressed between the 2nd and 3rd. I think it would be interesting to think that this work produced a leading committee list, which I would most likely expect to be accepted by the committee's work here. Am I not correct in saying that all committees are the ones who sign? Yes, all are, but five are in advance. They've all explained their warning. The majority of the committee is on notice. It's all right. I shouldn't have read it. But we must be confident that it will turn out well. An prominent chronicler, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, will succeed in bringing everyone along with him on the leading committee, which I believe would be an important part of this matter. I'm not suggesting this to create any wolf spray on the Committee or to strike political cones, but because of the growth of the case, I think it would be good for the council to have more evidence of why men draw the line where it is now drawn in terms of the separation and access to innovation and then to have this comparison with the North American court. I think this would be part of a great improvement. I got it. I got it. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson to take the initiative. I'm pretty sure the end-of-the-view party's gonna be off-limits from today's. This is what I wanted to say about these factors. Of course, in general there is nothing more than an update of this rule, though it is bad to approach it that way, closer to the reality that we see today. It will surely also enable them to resist, those who are under pressure from the governments, and often for financial loss, especially those who are involved, the drawing of a new line into the sand of which the sources are clearer, although they may indeed be much clearer than they are today. I hope that this will follow a degree of resistance to those who have thought that they would land, as it were, on the reverse side of the spine when it comes to the definitions of the current disease prevention and implementation of the oppressive activities of governments that have caused business, management, and individuals and, in fact, the nation all major financial losses in the whole of the past year. I think it's an improvement. And even if the case was taken to the Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. To examine these two factors, I think that a few days or so may not be all that matters after the first ten, eleven months of the outbreak. The last point I'm going to mention is what has to do with the entrance of the Generals. It seems to me that it would have been better to expect the arrival of the Generals to a greater extent than expected in the bill and the committee, so to speak, emphasis and frames in. I'd like to mention it here. I don't expect any particular changes in that subject, but I don't think that when it comes to the overall reexamination, which I hear now that most people here have discussed it will see the need to take place within a very long time, although it will probably not be until the epidemic has passed, then there will be a chance of improving the situation. But I'm going to finish this for a while, and I'm going to wish all of us senators good luck on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u123	V.E.G. President. I can't let it go. I can't let it go. I'm just going to talk to you about this Covid thing on the way. I think it's about time, so I'll tell you now, we'll support operations and other things we've had to take care of. I agree with anyone who says this case needs to be done, of course. Happily, people take time and even have, like a whale. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said earlier, taking a little more time to finish this case. Before I go on the matter myself, which I'm going to swaddle a little after, I'd like to say that me and the Icelanders have been a little lucky in all of this. We're lucky that we're few, and we're in a pretty big country where it's easy to keep distance. We are usually law - abiding, we usually go, at least most of us, by the rules we are meant to follow, and we often respect the authority when it tells us what to do or ask us to do something. So we've had a lot of work to do with this. I believe that in at least many cases, the measures taken to prevent the disease have been correct. We can talk about some kind of action and stuff. I can't imagine saying that I know about plans, models, and all that stuff, but there is, of course, a measure of frustration in all of this as to how the epidemic flares up again and again, how the individual accidents have occurred and what their consequences have been. Then it is the economic factor, or factor, that focuses on the economy in the country and the role of the government. I haven't liked or enjoyed to experience all that uncertainty, and I'm just gonna say it; this mess in government information about this epidemic, the lack of being able to tell people and companies, or their managers, what things will be like, that if they look like this, then, etc., this is going to happen, so that you can make plans. Long off, until late last year, has been responded on short notice and did not have much hope for the future. I also plan to criticize the fact that the Ministry of Health does not themselves have the prerogative to share with the generals the agreements that we had requested. In answer to this question, do these contracts seem to have been publicized and published, have gone into some way out of the way? We have an excellent skill here at the council to provide information that is confidential. Of course, such agreements should not be confidential. They may contain information that touches the vaccine manufacturer or something that is normal for coloring black or for which it does not appear. But in general, I don't know how to keep a secret about the contracts. We saw it here a few years ago when the general councilmen had to pull almost with thousands or at least hundreds of pages to try to find out what was actually going on in this so-called Icezave language. The government should not keep such evidence from members of Congress. Then I'd also like to say that I've felt this way, and I've given it many times, that, just as the collapse struck in 2008, we should have resorted to huge measures to make a defense about a company and a home in the country, - armoring city isn't a good word, it doesn't have a very good image - to take all of this into our arms and make sure that people don't lose their property or homes while we're working out of it. I still think it was right. I'll keep it. Maybe I'll get back to it later. I'm going to kiss the committee's face. It's very legible and very well done. It's easy to walk through it, and I think it's pretty true, if you can say that about this. So I'm going to kiss it. There are killings, contaminants, disease prevention, and so forth. I'm gonna come in for a little talk. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir spoke exactly of the role of a disease prevention stake. I'd like to agree with her that we have a clear line that these parties should have this role come up with a situation like this. On page 5 of the Commission's article, we learn that Iceland's Medical Association considers it important to maintain and strengthen the policy-making role of a disease prevention network. I'm glad that the committee decides to extend the body's life but also that its role will be defined better by total legal review. I think I've seen there, by permission of the President, the modeling policy in anti-airway defenses. - I'm fine. Let's just talk about it. At least I'm glad the committee has even. Listen to Iceland's Medical Association, and probably more, on that whole. Mr. President. We've had our infectious barber for months, which is just for sure when we're dealing with these situations. At least I do. I think it's true that the route that has gone, although, of course, is selective, on a solid foundation. The concept is defined here by law, which is important. I studied only the reviews and, among other things, the comments of Iceland's Hospital Society mentioned here. I'm glad the committee agrees with it's tips. Then there is a list of whether this is in harmony with the constitution. It is, in fact, there. quote the Justice Department of Iceland's Law Association, Health Services, and so on. I rejoice to see the end of this discussion in the Commission opinion, on page 6, that all talk about curfews fail. How important it is that we discuss the authority to limit individual freedoms! It would be something special, I'd say, to see the curfew arrangements. In fact, I'm concerned with the idea of putting it into a bill like this, as well as with a considerable concern that pretty freely the decisions made were made that can touch the national rights when it comes to business, that men decide and choose for themselves the way they go about themselves and the business of their companies, so I'm just saying. I also agree that it is a pleasure to see that the Council is woven into this. Of course, the General has shown it in this case, as we have seen here, in both the council members and the government opposers, that it has been quite able to address such matters as this and has shown it in the past. Fortunately, this situation came in this way. There was a full need to resolve the matter, as the committee surely does under the supervision of the prime minister of this committee. This will also discuss health checks. This, of course, is a natural matter. When things have changed quite quickly and much, and there are more doctors who check us and prepare us, or doctors, or that we even see a doctor in some cases, I think these terms, as they really are. The proposed changes are quite numerous and are presented in a special document. I'd like to stop at Unit 10. gro, which is a fairly large and important change. The committee is, in effect, trying to explain better as to when a person can stop a job. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Add to the d- team a new case, as follows: Business management should only be stopped to the extent of risk of outbreak associated with disease, such as the number of people involved or close to it or touching it. I won't tell you if it's clear enough, but I think it needs to be clear that business will not be stopped unless it's absolutely necessary or necessary. In that case, some type of job management may be needed when it comes to making a decision to stop the job. The claim may be that if a business is stopped, it is clear that the person will be fully improved or improved for the loss to the individual. Of course, closing a person's business where there is any service or sale or what it is can lead to not only losing his business but also losing his own home and everything, even for a reason that he cannot handle. In addition, there may be cases of ignoring or being careless. At the very least, I think that if the project was to have authority like this, then there is some way that it would need to be considered very carefully, for example. the use of these ends and such. How important it is that we do not unduly limit our job freedom or our activities! I realize that it is difficult to define when it is, but we have to do an attempt to get as close as possible to make it clear where the restriction is. It showed up in reverse at what? Birgir Þórarinsson's request that professional organizations have discussed the need for an independent investigation. I agree with that. A senator that it is very important to do so. We need to learn from this, of course, and we need to shape our environment, our rules, and our actions so that there will be little damage, of course, for people's health and lives as well as for the economy and society as a whole. Not to do so, not to ponder over these things, and to examine them with the goal of learning from them would be most irresponsible. Even if you don't want to say, there's nothing in your hand that this or something else won't hit us. Then it is very important for us to be at that place knowing, knowing and learning, being able to make decisions sooner, knowing that we need to show people more into the future, to show them what they want, to put down the guard, to set down limits: if we go there, this happens, and if that happens, the other one, etc. This is what has one of the most basic deficiencys. That's the big uncertainty that's ever been. Besides, you haven't always been able to make a sound and you feel a picture. You have at times wondered, " Who really is responsible in this matter? ' Are the officials, the fine officials trying to do their best? Are they the politicians? Have they somehow referred the authority to the officials in these matters? We need to get this straight. I would so much like to come to the end, Mr. President, that we also need to do it now, and certainly should have done it sooner, but at least now that we have seen how the European Union has held these vaccines, to be very careful about jumping onto the wagon with the European Union. There seems to be a lot of paperwork and a mess going on there, at least for a time, the hand was against the hand, and the hand was driving a toe, wanting to produce medicine in its own country, etc. This is not a club we live in. It's a huge cage that has distanced from both European people and politicians. Somehow there's a way of living a life of its own, I'm gonna let myself tell you. So if it's better, not just jump on the wagon and say, " This is the easiest way to do things. ' At the same time, there is a lot of concern that reports that Iceland is not a knowledgeable person for evaluating or testing complex and high levels of drugs. I admit, Mr President, I don't know if we have any knowledge and ability to determine this, but it would be very interesting to find out. But I wanted to state that I think it was a mistake. It's always and needs to change, it's not necessarily the first option to get on the train with the European Union. We have seen that many are doing very well at vaccinations and getting the drugs in their subjects. That, of course, is great. On the other hand, we have rather vague evidence of how this will work out in our country. There are things people hope for. They have hopes and plans, but they might need to show us the plan. How exactly is the plan? There's a little hanging from those contracts that haven't been seen yet. That's how I've understood it, Mr. President. There's still a fight to fight this wower. Hopefully, we will succeed in overcoming him until there is evidence. Much depends on how many people are vaccinated, how many are vaccinated. However, it remains that if we become the very best part of this year, much of it now seems to be being used for building up. This requires review of various government expenses and such. So there is still much work to do, Mr. President, that I hope we can unite in the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u124	A respectable president. At the end of the discussion, I want to thank you very much for the fine discussion that has been conducted here. Many speculations have come up and many probings have come up. Without specifically identifying who they are or who have been present with them, they have turned to factors like the coming of the council. As I mentioned earlier, the committee responds to that viewpoint, not to the full, but to anything. The main reason why the issue is not advanced at this point is really in what I may not adequately explain to my previous talk, that it was on the committee that at this review or on this pass, it might not be a reason to make decisions that directly alter the management of this epidemic. It was the test, and it was correct to explain this point a little better. It was also in my understanding, and I believe most members of the committee, except those who have specifically expressed themselves to be alert, that the statements from the jurists and experts in the administrative rights, were more reasonable to have the legislation general. That's why it's gone. Also, people have wondered why we did not take steps to change the work of a handout. It's not done, for the same reason I mentioned earlier; the management board of this epidemic has been like this. However, in the committee's opinion, we make it very clear that this needs to be considered more carefully, and I just agree with those who have mentioned it. I can see that the Center for Disease Control has a position similar to that of a screening council today. It's not the day - to - day work, let's say, but the broad lines. I can see that there's more to this kind of preventance. But this is something that needs to be discussed, and we thought it would be better to do it in an overall review. A few of them. Councilmen have mentioned a place of disease prevention. The Committee suggests that it is simply a decision to define a disease - control facility on the other hand and the authority of a psychiatrist to predict its establishment. There's more to seal up and the sources in this case from a psychiatrist. Senators have identified a comparison between the northern countries and the legislation there. In fact, I think that was mostly a problem. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year and Bergþór Ólason, who specifically named it. The committee considered only the source of authority in such legislation as mandatory vaccinations, closed borders, and more. We even got one. A memo from the International Assembly of Parliament about that. But again, including. Because the legislation in the North countries is so flux, if that is a word, it was assessed that it might not be a prevention now but rather as to what the situation would be like when the epidemic was over and a complete reexamination was at hand. I think I've got them in big trouble killing on the issues that are directly involved in the Administrative Law. Once again, I thank you. Special committees for the work being done in this case. As I mentioned earlier, all members of the committee came to correct the matter, which is exactly what is to be done in the council. I'm pretty comfortable with the conclusions we've come to, and I'm glad we came to this place with the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the Committee's opinion of an excellent summary at the end. I just wanted to form better, but I may have made my speech wish to include the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. In conversation outside a child, it has been most acceptable to us who are not members of the Committee to receive some product that explains only the Norwegian views that I and I have. paritaprevir He's got a Birgir's Ármannsson coming in especially. This is not intended for any political riot. Rather, I think all members of the council are more comfortable with this matter, the better the more any part of the subject is considered. So I just want to bring it up here and hope I get some good planning at it. A pilot.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u126	Mr. President. I'll try to be a rider. I don't make any comment that the case is called in to a committee, like a what. A senator was suggesting, between the 2nd and 3rd. It's a private court of Congress to ask for it, and I don't make any remarks about it. I mean, about these things. In particular, I think that it is not difficult to mention the documents mentioned earlier from the council's information field, and I don't have any reason to comment on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u127	Mr. President. We have just arrived at the brief talks, which, in fact, are new to the Council, and I hope they are good. I'll have this brief speech, but I'm going to present a committee opinion with a bill's motion on changing the laws on nature protection, which are from 2013. The committee has discussed the matter and had 11 guests and seven reviews, and they have been handled accordingly. The bill suggests changes to laws on nature protection associated with the terms of peace descriptions and forms of terms of peace. There is also a new arrangement for scouring wild lands. There are three chapters in the committee's opinion, and the first is a proposal to reexamine a natural memory file. Two. The bill is submitted to the change to 36th paragraph. The law on the advertisement of the proposal for implementation of the natural memory file that, instead of the publication of the proposal in the press, it should be published on the websites, in a law-engineering newspaper, and in other ways as appropriate. It will therefore be obliged to advertise in a law-engineering newspaper and on websites, while the publication of advertisements in other fields depends on the EEA's assessment at one time. The committee points out that it is important that advertisements be published in a real way and in a field where most interests may see it. In view of this, the Commission feels that advertisements are published in all the main media in the affected areas, in addition to the general publication of a law-engineering newspaper and on the websites. So much on the advertisement is a suggestion for a revised naturemin file. The second chapter first discusses a plan for peace, which says that according to Article 38. if a minister is allowed to determine a peace description with the approval of the land owner and the local community, although not expected in a natural-memployment programme. However, prior to this, the peace reports should be presented in accordance with Article 36. The law. It recommends that the deadline should be no less than eight weeks from the publication of advertisements than the bill's report that this long introduction period is based on the introduction of a revised nature calendar, which is much more than a single peace description allowed by a minister, according to Article 38. Does the bill suggest that there will be a two-week shortening period for the presentation of plans for individual peace reports. It came to the point that a two - week extension might be too short, including a two - week extension. Pointed to the fact that the speakers are a variety of people who are prone to act quickly. There was also an opinion that there were no clear statements of the cases of peace in which possession studies are considered. The committee points out that the plans for peace are a prelude to the development of peace conditions in the area. In cases where a plan needs to be advertised, landowner and local community will also be agreed to the state of peace and, therefore, all likelihood of agreeing on the case. However, it is important for the Committee to ensure that all members, including smaller parties, have room for careful reviews and therefore suggest that the deadline be minimal for a minimum of four weeks. The Commission stresses the need for a minimum deadline, and there is no basis for the Agency to oversee the need for it during the long term. The committee also points out that the process of peace is clear in the laws on nature protection and that include: The right of landowners to improve if a declaration of peace prevents land use or limits it beyond what is considered to be a general limit of possession rights. Then a minister has a warrant for the application of ownership according to Article 43. The law of Law and the execution of ownership and the decision to improve according to general rules. Here is also a short chapter on the matter of peace conditions. According to Article 4. The bill is suggested to postpone commenting on signs that the terms of peace will be reduced from three months to six weeks. It was observed that the time could be too short, since the prevalence of peace conditions could be enormous. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the bill's report that the three - month delay is unnecessary and that it is urgent to ensure efficiency and that the process of peace will not be reduced. Various suggestions, such as planning and reporting, such as evaluation of environmental impact, have a six-week introduction. It is usually more extensive than the national peace conditions. This suggests that the committee considers that six weeks to make comments sufficient in length. Finally, there is a section on the mapping of uninhabited lands, and I'm going to, with permission of the Supreme Court. To read simply this chapter: Six. The bill is presented with a new plan for the mapping of wild areas. The secretary will be permitted to set a regulation on the maping of the wild beyond. This will stipulate the criteria and grounds for the mapping and should provide guidance for the government on the protection of landscapes and other land use policies. It was noted that it was not clear who should be in charge of the mapping, how her treatment would be conducted, what the right effect she had, and what manner of living things she had at work. Then it was said that the mapping should be done more strongly and that it should not be done solely for government guidance. The commission is not expected to have the right effect on the maping of unsettled lands. The map, however, will be useful for rural society and other bodies in decision-making and land use. Since the map is not intended to bind the hands of the planning authority, the commission suggests a change in word, rather than the direction of the map for government authorities to guide it for information. The Commission then points out that further arrangements, including those who will handle the mapping, will be implemented in Regulation. The Agency has already proposed the mapping of wild areas in Iceland's highlands and has produced a report on the classification and mapping of landscapes. It was a national projection in Iceland ◯ classification and mapping of landscapes in Iceland, and it was conducted by Efla and Land Use Consultants in 2020. This document can be useful in mapping the widest. Thus, it may be reasonable to believe that the organization will continue to carry out the work of other professionals and professionals, including those of the EEA. Iceland's Natural History Institute, which has also been involved in the maping of the widest regions. The committee suggests a slight adjustment of the 6th bill. And now I have taken it; it is now called Map of the Wild. Also, the adjustment proposals are that rather than the word '-two' in a-team 3. Come on, four. That's four weeks. We're also at 6. ......, instead of the word "salvation. " Paragraphs come to you: information. Under the written writings of Bergþór Ólason, president of the river. Environment and Transport Committee Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, executive producer, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. In that way, Mr. President, I have completed a brief talk on this committee opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-28-50.u128	President thanks a lot. A senator for short wording. That's very pleasing to the president.
