ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-117.u1	Honorable generals. The work of this council is now completed, which is the last time in this termsable period. General elections are scheduled for September 25th. It's interesting that this is the first time since 1908 that is elected to the General Assembly in September, but I wasn't running at the time then, but that year was chosen September 10, and the elections were historical because it was the first secret election in Iceland. This assembly has been effective. During the council, 133 members of the Parliament, 11 members of the Committee, and 6 members of the Parliament have become legalists. Thus, 150 laws have been passed. In that case, 21 administrative proposals, 7 committee proposals, and 6 members of Congress have been adopted. In all, 34 parties have been approved. A 261 written query has been answered to the minister and 18 verbal queries have been answered. At that time, 7 members of Congress were referred to the government. There have been 26 special discussions, and 10 has been the highest. Healthcare Ministers report the state of the Korean virus, the premises, the vaccinations, and the like. It was March 15th last year that the Allied Council used its response plan to the Korean epidemic. In the 15 months since then, about one third of the season, the pandemic has set its mark on the work of the Parliament, and many of these have been in unusual ways. No one would have, for example. I wondered last March that committees and other conferences of Congress and staff should become telecommunications for the next 15 months, let alone the assembly meeting area would cover four more side halls. What stands out is that we have been able to keep the Allied active for the entire time. In this regard, members of Congress and staff have agreed on one thing to do such a thing, and I want to thank you for that. At the same time, it is clear that large amounts of telecommunications technology in this pandemic will have lasting effects on the activities of the Generalis. There is a new leadership here at the council to determine how the General can benefit from this experience. During the last two legislatures, 57 laws and two terms of Congress have been adopted linked to the pandemic and are clean in addition to the normal activities of the General Assembly. The need for abdicate of these many pandemic issues underscores the importance of keeping the International Assembly active throughout the time. Thus, the General Assembly has played a significant role in the response to the epidemic, and this may have contributed to a significant increase in overall confidence between February 2020 and February 2021; from 23% to 34% between years of age, it also had a significant increase in the previous year. In this regard, I want to reiterate what I said in kitchen calendars every day, that the trust and respect of the Alliedis are a winning phenomenon. On the other hand, as normal as it is to be faced and to criticize something that is critical, it is harmful and unsatisfactory to call out the Allied Council as an impossible job, which it certainly is not, and to speak down one's own job on the way. Let's do it. However, these words of mine I would also like to say that, of course, the Council has to look at its practices, its organization and its conduct with critical glasses on its nose and constantly have its reform plans in place. Under these circumstances, the work environment of Congress and staff is certainly responsible for family relations. The General Assembly, the nation's oldest and highest agency, is to have a great deal of ambition in their behalf and to want to be exemplary. There should be no harassment or excommunication, no sexual harassment or violence, no sexual discrimination, no racialism, no disability or aging disorder, or any other form of conduct that would not be suitable for a civilized society. The work environment here has been under way over the past three years, and the General has been aided by external experts and counselors in this regard. I give my name to those who come to direct matters in the coming years, not to let the mass drop on those materials. Despite the fact that this ideal period will become memorable because of the crowning virus epidemic, much more has come to pass. A second and very important event occurred when the first shovel was introduced into an office for the General Assembly of February 4 last year, over a month before the full weight of a pandemic. However, the Koran virus epidemic has had a negligible impact on these projects and is completed at May 1, 2023. The plan is to implement the building prior to the assembly in September of that year, which is about my next election period. This office building, or core structure for the General Assembly, has been a long - awaited dream for decades and will be completely equipped with local working conditions when all the activities of the Parliament in this respect will be placed under their own roof. At the same time, large sums of money are saved at the most expensive place in the city. I congratulate those who come to benefit from this building, both staff and members of the future. I can start dealing badly with the meeting's housing without referring to the dramatic milestone that on July 1, 140 years have passed since the members of Congress entered the first meeting in the newly built Assembly Hall in 1881. This was at that time the most magnificent building in the country, and although many beautiful buildings were then raised, there is no dispute that the Assembly Hall is one of the pearls of architecture in Iceland. It is important that the International Assembly Hall be a living part of the operation. This is the opening point for the discussion that is being conducted here within the council on how to restore the Assembly Hall so that it can continue to serve as fully as its members. During the election season, there was also another long - awaited goal, one that may be said to have been delayed over a decade ago, and this is to add to the luxury of council service. This is the biggest step ever taken. In three phases, 17 new workers were appointed in addition to the eight existing ones, and the financial foundations of the Senate were strengthened at the same time. At the same time, the council's office and committees were promoted by the recruitment of four new experts and were put primarily to the addition of services to the financial and surveillance services of the committees, as well as the expansion of the council's legal office. Honorable generals. An election is always a milestone. By the end of this reign, many members of the council will be eliminated from the council. Some have decided not to re-elect themselves; others have not been advanced in re-elections, parties, or configurations; and others may still not be re-elected, as is the case, and we know. In a direct way, over one fifth of the United States, 22%, has decided not to seek reelection. Among them is the first vice president of the General Assembly of S. Brjánsson, 6th. Witchest. "but he's been at the Council for five years. Then two other members of Congress who have once served as vice presidents of Congress. It's the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. N., and Jón Þór Ólafsson, 8th We're out of here. A Helgi has been at the Council for seven and a half years, and Jón has been sitting here for seven years. Then departing from the council of two members of the council, Gunnar the son of Sveinsson, the 6th. We're out of here. , and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Engels, the fourth. That's the north side. Gunnar Bragi has served at the General Assembly for 12 and a half years, four and a half years. For eight and a half years, the Þórunn has been a member of the Council. I would like to be on behalf of a body of Congress to Þórunn the benefit of the sickness that she now faces and all good in the future. And now, after the fourteen and a half years, Kristján the Þór of Júlíusson, the first. That's the north side. and aquaculture and agricultural ministers. At that time, Sigríður Andersen, 1st. Smoke. A., who has spent six and a half years at the General Assembly and for a while on the Ministerial Class. We also salute Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, 3th. Smoke. So and former vice president of the United States, who has been at the General Assembly for ten years. Besides the members of Congress I've been referring to, five others have a bad time. Senators decide not to seek reelection. These are the members of the Council of Elíasdóttir Fräðurfjörðurfjörður Elisdo, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Páll Magnússon, Smári Mccarthy, and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. All 13 members of Congress who have decided not to allow themselves for further Congress, I would like to thank them for their work in behalf of the country and the nation. I would like to thank them personally for their good cooperation and good introductions, and wish them all the best things in the future. Since I am one of the members of Congress now of Congress, I would especially like to thank my traveling companions here through the years for their good relations, although, as in the general life, there were no rains and rains. I've dedicated politics and the General Assembly of the greater part of my days and I'm content, perfectly satisfied, as I look back on my ways. I've had a great job here, so I'll leave it to Congress with fond memories of a lot of people I've had that I've had a longer and shorter way of working with, and it's, I think, without exception, meant at least One thing in common, they've wanted their country well. These people may not have necessarily had much more in common, but they are much less common. I have enjoyed over 38 years of age at the General Assembly, in almost every role at different times in politics. I'm going to miss the Generals, but I'm happy to say so. Before I speak, I'd like to thank the Prime Minister for his cooperation in the terms of the election and the first vice president, the Godfather of the Guðjón of Brjánsson Brothers, especially, who is a very strong and kind man to cooperate. The committee has made several changes during the election season and has improved the variety of people and has contributed to the work, but each has its own. I also thank the presidents of Congress. One of the most important factors in ensuring the success of Congress work is the cooperation of the president with members of Congress, and that it is good. There, too, among the presidents of Parliaments, there have been several changes in the terms of the election. Most of all, my friends Pirats have been very busy bringing their men in and out of office, and sometimes you've had the right to know who was what you've been doing. But all of this has worked out well, and I appreciate all of you very much for your cooperation and good introduction. It has often been wrong for the chairman of the largest council, Ármannsson, son of Aargian, to hold a job on the table of the council classes, and there is reason to give him special thanks. It'll be late to say that Birgir's chaos of conduct, a very stable man with experience, which is better than none at most when we have, as we have, as we have. I've been able to get to know each other for the past few hours and days. And it also stood to congratulate Birgir on her birthday, which was true yesterday, but all good birthday parties are often a part of the night, so I congratulate him on his birthday. This won't be the first time the Council finishes its work on Birgir' birthday or near it. I would like to reiterate my gratitude to the Generals for a good cooperation during the time that I have had the privilege of fulfilling the work of the chairman. I wish the outbacks a nice return home, a pleasant return to you, and a blessing to all of you. During the years I have served as president of the Governing Body, I have enjoyed a particularly good cooperation with the qualified, hardworking, and resourceful staff of the Generals. For this I want to, as we move on, thank you for the Council's office manager and special staff. This thanks to you, beloved staff of the Generals, on our behalf of all of us. Finally, I want to call all those in charge to wage an honest campaign in the fall of a future. May the whole assembly of the Syrians prosper, the land and the people of the land for good, for many years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-117.u2	V.E.G. President. I would like to represent our general council members to offer presidents and vice presidents the best thanks for the cooperation in the season. Most of all, I'd like to thank the President for our cooperation with the council members. This council has truly been unusual because of Covid-19, and it has been very difficult to test the president and staff of the council who have shown great courage in seeking new solutions to keep Congress going. Among the general members of the council who have decided not to seek reelection is the senator who now has the longest career in the Council. 2.m. That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, president of the Generals. It is certainly a turning point when the president of the Generals and a senator of the 38th century makes a decision to the General Assembly. Hv. paritaprevir In less than four decades, J. Sigfússon's work has certainly made his face evident in the work of the Generals. He has always enjoyed the reputation of a speaker and has been an expansive and effective senator and minister. He also enjoys people's pleasures in good times, much sawings, and stalwarts. During the 12 years that I have been serving at the General Assembly, I have cooperated closely with the highest level of cooperation. President, both of the government and as chairman of Congress. I thank you personally for that. I know that I speak for all of us generals when I thank Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for his work in behalf of Congress and nation and wish him and his family all good in the future. I would also like to thank the people of Generals for their good work, of ease, and of a willing spirit. I ask members of the Parliament to give good wishes to the president of the Generals and his family and thank the staff of the Generals by getting out of their seats. [[Senators rise from their seats.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-117.u3	Thank you. 6th. South, Yiddny G. Oddný Harðardóttir, for warm words and good wishes to me. Thank you. All councilmen for accepting what it says. I also agree and repeat my thanks to the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-13-117.u4	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the prime minister to postpone Generalist meetings of 151th legis, from 12 June 2021 or later, if necessary. All units, 12 June 2021. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the General Assembly, I declare that General Assembly meeting 151 is postponed. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the generals and the staff of the Generals and the Supreme Court. A president for good cooperation, not just for winter, but for this terms. As mentioned earlier, the election for the Council will take place on September 25, second or more months before the election period of Congress expires, and therefore I will consult the President of Iceland to break up a council that will be announced on the first of the 12th of August, the second with a letter to be published in Government News. - Happy summer.
