ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u1	The president wants to inform us first that the Presidency Committee agreed at its luncheon meeting that the 151th legislature program would be canceled. In fact, it is in accordance with the usual circumstances, such as those toward the end of the Senate that the preparation of both committees and meetings must be determined by the circumstances. The committees are still working and handling matters, yesterday and today and possibly tomorrow to some degree too, so there is a far greater chance that something would have to be added to the Senate beyond what the work plan expected, that the council would complete next Thursday. On Thursday, June 10, we are expected to discuss a budget bill. Conversations are taking place, as it should be between the council officials and other parties on the end of the council and the importance of their success. Things will probably get clearer in the hours and hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u3	President. It's like the highest. The president brought attention to the past few more of this council, this last election season. Many large cases are unsolved and unsolved. One of the bigger problems, so to speak, is the bill of a highland park that has been highly criticized and for good reason. It has been noted that by means of the bill, much of the country is being taken away from direct democratic rule, and it may even be shut down in a certain way for the people of the country. I don't have to explain the nature of the case here, because the question is simple to the highest. Prime Minister: How does the highest figure seem? A minister succeeds in ending this matter now? Is there a theory that the greater part is going to bring a new assembly case at this point, making a conquistador to the establishment of a highland park? If that is the case, then it must be normal for the council to be informed, end only within three days of the staff program, at the highest level. In fact, the president was evading, but there are few days left of this council. The Parliament must demand to know what is involved in these biggest issues and whether the majority of the segments intend to present themselves at this point in a new case in a highland park. Or it's right to send them a message. The Environment and Transport Committee, to simply return the case to the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson questioned. You're right about what you're doing. In his case, a senator said that this bill, which came in, in fact at the time of the year, is a big case, and there were many reviews, on a second hundred envelopes. I'm aware that the Environment and Transport Committee has been working on this case, and I'm familiar with the comments received that included very extensive comments. It has been my view of this case in a government contract that I believe a highland park is an enormously progressive case for Iceland. I think there's a big contribution to nature protection, not just at home, but on a international level. But because of the magnitude and importance of this matter, I have also felt very important that, as far as I'm concerned, I would be able to reach out for it. This means that there will be a great deal of work to be done; there will need to be careful reviews of the reviews that arise and long - term solutions to the opinions listed there. Because I see a central nation as a matter of longer standing. I'm afraid I can't tell you exactly who will be landing the environment and transport committee, but I want to make sure of it. A senator tells me that I realize very well that this case is big. There are a considerable number of opinions, and it's important, if we want this case well, because I believe this is a big progress for Iceland, that we'll take care of it. This has been my message to the members of the Environment and Transport Committee. Finally, I can say that of course you're right. A senator says that we need to agree on what matters should be concluded at the council. I expect these matters to become clear in the near future, like the highest. The president put it in a very open way earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u5	Mr. President. That's a bit less than an answer. V.E.G. A minister repeatedly declared that this was a very controversial and difficult case, which is certainly true. But it can't be at the top. Prime Minister, director of the Left Motion of the Green Pronunciation, does not know what has to do with one of the biggest priorities of its own party. So I reiterate the question, What's going on in this case? The Congress needs to know that we have some idea of what's going here in the next few days. If it were, it'd be the highest. Ministers more than that the matter simply came up or would come to the highest degree. The minister prefers that the committee dismiss the case, or did it come back to the minister in a formal way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u6	Mr. President. The media seems very concerned with the introduction of various new matters of Congress, and I realized that the director of the Environment and Transport Committee introduced this new matter in the news that has not yet been published. I'm just gonna stick with the points of this matter. I don't view it as a difficult thing, and I don't see it. I see it as a matter of particular debates, even though there are conflicting issues to deal with. However, I view it as a matter of progress. We're gonna go for a second. In the past, a senator has had a word exchange about the vision that ruled when the Þingalva National Park was established. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that we had not wanted to have any other decision then. But it was controversial, and it took years to get them out of the country because there were conflicting issues, including some. Protected bait and other factors, exactly as is now discussed in the middle of a highland park. I believe that this park's establishment, because it will exist, will be a progressive step for an Icelandic nation. At the same time, I believe that it is important that we be very careful, and that is my message to those who are working on this matter at the council scene. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u7	A respectable president. I come up here to have a good conversation with the highest. Prime Minister, who I am now going to address as chairman of the left movement, ◯ Green offering, because we worked largely together to make the Constitution changes where we met as presidents of the political parties. There is now one issue inside the administrative and monitoring committee. I'm not going to dwell on the mistake that I think the Chairman of the Left Green made, to have united four things in one case, because we are facing the end of a council and we see the end of certain cases, not the constitution and the changes there have been made. I want to reiterate that restoration has not exactly approached this issue based on government/management, but has taken a prince's decision to support the changes that make sense. I still think, and I'm not going to play any political battles in that relationship, that it is wise to take some part of the constitutions through the council and show that the council can change the constitution. I would have liked to see bigger and more steps, for example. There's no secret that we disputed the balance of votes. But there was an agreement in the beginning to discuss this. But when the reasoning survey was made, clearly it demonstrated the people's willingness to change that arrangement, I would have liked to have it done. But all right, that's not gonna happen. My message to the highest. Ministers are at least repairs. does not partially prevent these changes in constitution through the council. However, it is also more important for the government to press on to the resource policy. All right. If it comes here, I'm also going to say I'm not going to file a lawsuit about that miserable law, but I'm simply going to let the people take their stand on it when it comes to it. But I'd like to encourage the highest. To impress VG, Prime Minister and Chairman in this regard, I do not see that this matter, this important matter, is not a part of the committee. I think we should try to do everything we can to take steps for this purpose and handle at least Part of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for recording these big cases. I recommended the bill in February, and I want to state that I thought it was 1st. about my bill is a good discussion. I thought she was a businesswoman. I reduced the debate that there may be some of the changes suggested in the bill, even though there are obviously no consonants about all changes. Of course, I don't agree with what. A senator and her score on the resource problem, which I think is exactly the principle we would like to set for resource use in the community. I think it's a good set. I realize, however, that it is not a solid agreement. I know it's been called after. The administration board and the monitoring committee, whether or not there are any regulations to be met. Though not all of them, members of the council who are sitting there feel that it is a flat area to be joined together. Of course, it is easy for the committee to settle the issue in solidarity and to leave other matters in order to do more work later. I've encouraged it if there's such a thing. However, I would like to say so here, in view of the republic's constitution that once the Constitution has been completed, it's necessary to interrupt the council and give an election, so it's a law in the constitution that I don't think it's a good law. I think that the pressure created here on the payment of the Constitution changes in the success of elections makes it very difficult for people to get together on issues that could be met even under other circumstances. So I'm just going to tell you how I feel that, with this vast conglomerate and a number of categories, this project will be difficult for us if we want to make changes in solidarity, which I think is the will of the vast majority of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u9	A respectable president. Again: That is a fundamental difference between us in this resource problem. I don't just think it's lost, it's dangerous. I'd much rather encourage the highest. Prime Minister and senator of the Left Motion, Count Katrín Jakobsdóttir, to use her political involvement to get her dear friends in the Independence Party to change her mind, say to them: My friends. Let's change this and make it absolutely clear, that it takes temporary contracts to have access to the nation's resources and resources. Let's make this plain, my friends. But she doesn't want to use this account, okay? I would like to stress that I think it is very important that we have the opportunity to continue discussing the constitution here in the chamber. I think it's an opportunity to take a certain step. Yes, certain factors are going to work, and I would have felt better about it if the committee had gone further. But I still think there's still space and still an opportunity to take some steps in the constitution, and then I'm talking about the Icelandic principle, the environmental principle, and the recently named II. section of the Constitution, which is taught by the President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u10	Mr. President. It's not up to me in this matter, and I've told it many times more that I think it's very important to achieve some change in the constitution, and I believe many of the changes put there so that for them, they should be mutual. It's sad, of course, that Iceland's Constitution is, for example. Keeping quiet on environmental and natural protection, one of the Constitutions of the North. If a board of directors and monitoring committee agreed to implement such arrangements, I would be fully available for the discussion as well as for the changes. A senator refers to this, and not all of them must come to a vote if they are not all intelligent. But I have heard that there can be considerable harmony over the changes suggested in the chapter of the president, not all, fine. I have encouraged the head of the case and the chairman of the Committee to work on the very thing so as to determine whether there are some rules that cannot be met, so that this project is moving and the constitution, for example. Do not keep on silent about environmental protection and protection, which is one of the biggest issues of the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u11	A respectable president. Recently, a report published on the ideal pensioner Stefán Ólafsson and Stefán Andri Stefánsson were working together with Edda at the University of Iceland for the trade union. The report clearly highlights the effects of a decline in the social security system. Every 100,000 bucks. In addition to earnings from a pension fund, a pensioner usually receives some 26,700 dollars. In its share, the state receives taxes and reduces a total of some 73,000 dollars. Generally, the tax burden of pensioners, especially underpayers, has been greatly increased. Social security spending is no longer enough for the minimum cost of a single pensioner in the capital area. A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance spoke word for word, with the permission of a president: We've increased almost half of the support we've received from the social security system in less than a decade. [...] We have never spent so much money on these lawsuits before. I believe there is every reason for us to be very proud of the enormously powerful social security network in Iceland. If you have a 1,000K set. in the chain-mortem system, they flow through micro-elders and older people's pockets and about 750 bucks. of them going straight back to government funds or more, up to 100%. The only thing left in 4 K's. is at most 1K. in their pockets, if they're so lucky. I'm not talking about high-payers, I'm talking about people with 400,000,500,000 bucks. in monthly pay, $200,000 a.m. The amount of money paid from a pension fund may bring back a total of 50,000 to 60,000 thousand. To them, even less, not at all. It's under the roof. Secretary of finance this is all right, that the damages are all right, to 1k. 1 out of 4 puts in the pockets of those who need it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u12	A respectable president. Here's why. A senator once again on the agenda of a complicated and complicated subject. What I have noted is that over the past few years, we have achieved tremendous success in making the least of those less fortunate. I still draw attention to that sleazy device, the business story.is, the income story where we can see how much change we've made on the disposition of all Icelanders. We can look at especially a pensioner. For example, in the lowest income of those 66 years of age and older who live in their own real estate, we are looking at a turnoff listed in multiples. People who are at the lowest level of income for the period the history of income has not only improved their terms but, in fact, multiplied, we were in an impossible place. But this is a huge project, to ensure more and more people in sensibilities adequate living, especially for those who have not been able to use the working days to build up rights in the general pension system. It's a huge project. Well, here's the question. A senator to see if I have enough work to do. No, we're not done. I'm just highlighting the results of the emphasis we've been using. They have paid in better terms. If there is one thing that stands out from the report by Stefán, son of Ólafsson, it is the overwhelming progress that has been made in the purchase of the provision of the group as a cause of distress. There's a senator here. Consider, for example, the increase in riches on the disposition of this group - this is really historical. [[The president calls.]] It is historical how much money money has grown. [[The president calls.]] But the task is not over. Now we put 10% of all the government's income into it, and we need a bigger cookie to do better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. I just have to disagree deeply with him. Average V.I.I.L.I.I.E.L.D. This just doesn't tell us a story, says nothing about the experiences of people who don't have housing, are renting, or are desperate who are in this situation and getting out of a pension fund. These people don't get quirks. These people are trying to live at 220,000 or 250,000 $300,000. paid for a month. These people are exposed to chain-mortem impairments. These are the people who only get 1K. of every 4 it puts into the system. As a result, our system has grown dramatically, 5 billion each year, 20 billion. That's because it runs through the pockets of the people who need the rest of the men. This may have increased in those who do not need it. But it hasn't increased in the worst-cased guys out there in a rented market, it's perfectly clear. I've seen one after another. These people are trying to score at 220,000,230,000 bucks. paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u14	A respectable president. In the first answer, I turned my eyes toward sensibilities, but whiskers. A senator here is talking about all those on social insurance. I feel like he's doing a little bit of a job on which he's putting on a schedule. Hv. A senator is talking about a system that costs us Icelanders every year 160◯180 billion. It's the numbers we're talking about. At the moment, state funds are fired with a 300 billion-point pitch and a sledgehammer. A senator and his team speak of tens of millions of cost in changing this system as if it were just a matter of course. We're just supposed to get this out, not just in monotonous operations, but every year forever. Who's gonna pay you, huh? Senator? Who's going to pay? Hv. A senator has spoken of tens of millions of loans every year to pay himself because it will eventually come out so well. [[The president calls.]] We have a tremendous social security network. We can do better than that. That's my cause here. But we have to afford it, boy. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u15	Mr. President. On December 8, last year, the highest claim was made. Environment Minister for the legal bill on the establishment of a highland park, a long-standing bill for law, as one of the main issues of our environmentalists, both inside and outside, for decades. So it was a joy to see the blessed bill finally enter the council three years after the government's government covenant and two years of consultation and covering all over the country with different parties. The establishment of a national park in the central highlands of Iceland would be an enormous step in expressing the uniqueness of the uninhabited and uninhabitedness of the central highlands, thereby showing respect for the areas they deserve. The goal of the bill was perfect and noble, although I had much fear for various things. So I have to admit that seeing and hearing the chairman of the Independence Party and the forwarding party shrivel this huge case off the board with their declarations recently in the highest degree. The secretary of transportation and rural management even said so. Just a few days ago, he thought that it would be impossible for a nationwide bill to become a law on this council, and a supreme bill in his present form. The secretary of finance said four days ago, with the permission of a president: I don't think it's impossible that it will be done as it was ordered before the council [...] But the matter will not be over as it is at the council. Those words fell in spite of the extreme postmortems at the height of their life. Environment Minister to those forces that view the central highlands as energy sources and for energy efficiency in place of protection policies, which should be the primary objective. And it literally opened up on the construction of the new fortresses in the vulnerable perimeters of the central highland park. Mr. President. It must be an exceptional defeat to take such a controversial step to directly open up new fortresses at the edge of the park and lose general support for a central national park so thoroughly that general support went from 63% in 2018 to 31% last December. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister whether this is not an incredibly tragic defeat, not reaching out to one of the major VGs in this terms of election. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u16	Mr. President. I must now say that I felt that this speech was a half-baked speech of my former partner from the left movement of an ◯ green supply and the environmental movement. Hv. A senator knows this bill well, hopefully. I don't know exactly. But as I went over the years, it is reported at a further hundred envelopes. As far as I'm told, I'm no longer on the committee as I'm told. A senator, who has failed to complete a visitor's assignment. I've often said it and reiterate it once again - because I care about it, this is a case that I find incredibly important, not for the VG but for Iceland, for nature protection in Iceland, and for natural protection in the world because here we have one of the biggest nonexistent European territories, one of which is completely unique in Europe, not just in Iceland - so important that it is so important that we try hard to work well and make sure that we take a good deal of the facts that may arise when it comes to such an important area. Hv. A senator, I know, gets a lot of talk about good tactics, and I think she agrees with me that we should be careful about this. Did the matter come too late? That may be so. We've been dealing with a pandemic here at the General Assembly and I know that the Environment and Resource Minister has delayed this last winter because the council was simply doing other things. He did so because there were other huge projects that the government was dealing with. I don't call it defeat. I don't call it an enormous pension, like what's-her-name. A senator chooses to call it that. But I have a feeling that this big mouth is what it is. A senator is also rooted in her former being in our movement. And I would like to say that in this matter, we environmentalists should put our strength together rather than bring up here a fortune.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u17	Mr. President. Now I have to admit I'm the highest answer. Prime Minister is disappointed. She well knows that supporting this matter is absolute and true and complete on my part; she should know better than anyone else. In fact, I find it inexpensive to blame the council for the lack of enough success during the council. Environment and Transport Committee. The case was late, yet it had been in a tremendous amount of preparation and conversation in many parts of the country, so the preparation of the situation should be sufficient. So let's just admit it right here, and now it's not a groundworker or a business plan. The European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee to teach that the matter is not achieved during this council but that the members of the administration conflict and opposition from the Independence Party and the forward party to the matter. [[The president calls.]] Let us admit that. [[The president calls.]] So I'm going to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does she believe that if the same categories sit here in the government during the next term, this case will pass through, during that term period, after four years of sadness in handling this huge matter? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u18	President has to ask. Councilmen to keep time limits in mind. It is not acceptable for humans to pass more than 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u19	Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks of my answers being cheap. That's where I'm at. A senator throws stones out of a glass house that speaks of a tremendous defeat. This case is huge. I know there'll be a national park in Iceland and I know it because it's the obvious right policy to take, not just for nature protection in Iceland, but for Iceland as a whole. If this matter needs to be taken more time to improve - I understand that guests are not finished in the language as I said before - they do not refer to the fact that they are being blamed, just not entirely, but to the council that they should do their job and that they are doing their jobs and that they do no comment on it. Of course, I would have chosen that the matter would be further off the committee. I don't sit at the table there and I don't know exactly how it's been going. [[The president calls.]] But it doesn't change that this is a huge case that will be on the agenda for the left movement, no matter what happens here and now, because this is a good thing for the nation. [[The president calls.]] It's a good thing for Iceland, and it's a good thing for natural protection in the world. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, we should unite with each other who wants this matter well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u20	A respectable president. V.E.G. Prime Minister has provided a bill for changes in the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. This includes a panel of resources that has been disputed, as asked briefly earlier in an unprepared inquiry. V.E.G. The prime minister then said that it was a law in which the basic principles should at least be in order for people to accept them. I disagree. There are two basics that do not agree. One of them is a receipt for resource rights. That's not what I'm going to ask the highest. Minister to here and now, it requires more discussion than I think it will receive. The rest is time binding or premature binding or permanent use of resources. The Minister's bill, as clearly stated in the report, is expected to be the most up-to-date resource resource sources, i.e. It can be taken back if the lawgiver chooses to do so, but it is not necessarily temporary. Now we've got a what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir proposed adjustments to the same subject, where there is a temporary sharpening of this and a temporary access warrant, to make it perfectly clear. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: To what material material reasons are the highest? Prime Minister for untimely accession of resources, even if reversible? You see, I can only imagine the only reason why there is a compromise in this matter, that is, to serve the financial interests behind the Independence Party. Other reasons I don't know. I'd love to hear the highest attitude. Minister in the hope that she can draw it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry where he gives himself that I put in here a bill to serve financial interests behind the Independence Party. I'll have to say that he's wrong. Senator. Of course, I don't think that's the kind of thing he's going to bring. I carefully reviewed this law and that bill when I spoke to the case at which it was actually similar, that I was serving other interests. I'm sorry that we really can't have a perturbing conversation about the constitution without suggesting that you have other interests to guide, because you don't. The richness of this law is like that of other regulations laid down in this bill; it is endeavoring to have clear principles and to see that the directive can withstand not only the effort of taking over very different resources but also that it can last for a long time. Therefore, when discussing these topics in a report with the bill, it is very detailed that there can be very different viewpoints, to form when discussing resource use on land, resource use on energy, resource use on water, so it is difficult to label them into a constitution exactly what to do with images, e.g. calls in a moderate amount of time, as previously shown in other resource requirements. I have made it clear that I feel that the meaning of this law is that these sources will not be given permanently, in the sense: They must then be temporary, or they must be indistinguishable. And that seems to me to give the legislature to deal with a wide range of resource uses in the way that more of the legislatator chooses at any given time. There's something that's been considered for quite a while, and I think that this law has a perfectly clear protocol to it. I'm just asking what. A senator treating me with respect not thinking I'm here on business in other ways. I'm really sorry he thinks it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u22	A respectable president. I'm really sorry it looks that way, but I'm just gonna have to pray to the highest level. A minister to admit that she is in cooperation with the Independence Party and has had to sacrifice less interests for more, as she has said, and to admire the media that had to be done. That's a speech for the highest degree. Prime Minister and justification for cooperating with this category, which must then be followed up on the issues that should be set out by the government, according to the nature of the matter. It was the time when I didn't believe that VG would be in charge with the Independence Party so that the idea of the highest. The prime minister is not merely blind to the merits of his independence party. V.E.G. Ministers can be offended over it, it must only be, but it looks that way. I noticed this in the talk of the highest. Prime Minister that there were no material arguments. I've read this report, I've been participating in this conversation. There is no material basis for having resources either temporary or indistinguishable. [[The president calls.]] Of course, resource access should be temporary. There's no reason for that. But if it's the highest. A minister has some reason to have the resource use at any point in time, although it is indistinguishable, I would appreciate most of it. A minister would argue with them here in the public square rather than take offense at the way things are happening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u23	Mr. President. I'm not offended at what I did. A senator, he can feel what he wants, I'm just sorry, and that's just the way it is. I considered that the nature of different resources is quite different, and that is why very few countries have set such regulations into a constitution because it is difficult to access resource use in a complete way. As we consider what other nations have done, they choose to go other ways than we have done by creating specific resource regulations, including: Because, for example, when we are talking about resource use on land, it may not necessarily be useful for a certain amount of time. We have an example of renting land to 99 years of age. We also have examples of untimely contracts on land. This will be discussed in the report. That's why I thought it was important that the basics were underlined in this directive, not that we were attaching ourselves to a particular resource in the Member State's resource directive. [[The president calls.]] This is likely a reason why it has been difficult to grasp this and why other nations have gone elsewhere when discussing resources in their constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u24	A respectable president. Knowledge of the human body's function, the causes of disease, and the means to prevent it are growing. At the same time, the healthcare facilities for screening, monitoring, and preventive measures will be improved. It is important that public standards and rules for access to health care take into account these changes and that all of the country sit at the same level so that Iceland's medical insurance is involved in transport costs due to such health care as others. The risk of a number of types of cancers is currently increased by the cause of changes in BRCA genes. With careful monitoring and/or preventive measures, severe malignancies can be reduced or even completely prevented. Women who are heterozygous for mutations are more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer before 40 years of age. Men can also develop breast cancer because of this. Women and men who live at risk for inherited cancer are deeply dependent on both physical and mental health screening. The importance of monitoring and preventive measures is therefore clear. Over the past few years, a high level of awareness has developed regarding inherited risk factors and have been identified and analyzed largely of those carrying, e.g. The BRCA mutation in Iceland. In my home country, these mutations are quite common, and individuals from there have taken preventive measures in recent years that require up to 82020 trips to the capital. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What rules apply to the reimbursement of travel costs for increased monitoring, screening, or preventive measures? How are up-to-date updates and reviews of Iceland's travel reimbursement policies along with the development of health care?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. For the travel costs of health care and their caregivers there are certain regulations. According to that Regulation, the physician has to dismiss health care to the inevitable disease management of public health institutions or other health care providers contribute to Iceland's health insurance costs. That is the principle. The terms apply to longer travel, i.e. More than 20 miles [20 km], and it shows that health insurance is involved in two trips every 12 months. A local doctor is required to apply for the trip and confirmed that the ministry cannot be obtained in the community. According to this same provision, in the case of serious medical conditions, malignancies, renal failure, serious heart disease, serious childhood diseases, serious psychiatric illness and serious complications during pregnancy, Iceland's health insurance will be involved in the treatment of repeated travel costs over two months. Hv. A senator asks here about a particular group. To answer, there are no special requirements for travel costs due to increased monitoring or preventive measures. Prophylaxis is not a treatment for serious disease, and the general rule that travel due to such therapy is the two common travel criteria allowed for each 12-month period. However, the fund is reimbursed in continuous reviews and also in reimbursement of travel costs, as presented in the Regulation discussed here. The reduction in health insurance payment is an important factor in equalizing the availability of people to health care, regardless of their residence. A respectable president. I hope that I can answer in my second, better with regard to the specific plans for this inquiry why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers and hopes that more will be added. It is not acceptable for people to be placed in the country to have to make decisions about actions or the frequency of screening in the light of financial status, or to set priorities for which health care services are applied during the two visits paid by Medical Insurance. Individuals diagnosed with BRCA mutations need to undergo a minimum of two trips per year, thereby emptying the right to reimburse. The cost of traveling during operations can be tremendous. There are eight or twenty trips, half to one million on trips, and the other, the cost of living is expected. It is essential that national travel costs be reimbursed as a result of changes in health care. And how can we make sure of that, the highest. Minister, that the Order will follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u27	A respectable president. Iceland's health insurance has proposed changes to the Ministry on 2 mg. Section 3. ensuing regulations, especially with the objective of reaching the target population at any given moment. A senator asks here. The reason is that the rendering of the current Regulation only allows repeated visits to be paid in case of serious medical conditions. In fact, it is permitted to pay for more trips than two in each 12-month period of treatment for the prevention of malignancies. It is, of course, the highest prophylaxis of subjects with a BRCA mutation. Cost evaluations due to this change are not available but are considered in the Ministry. I don't expect this to happen so quickly that there is a significant cost increase, so I believe that this kind of change will likely be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u28	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask for an assistant president because I've seen and heard from a group of women who have complained to an Allied agent because they lack answers about how their cervical samples were handled. This is a very serious case, and we're still waiting for a report on the cervical biopsy removal. We were to receive answers last week, of course, that would have been long before that time. But that's primarily why I'm coming up here, in order to wish the help of President in this most serious position.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u29	V.E.G. A health secretary has authorized the president to inform us that the report presented here is expected to be distributed tomorrow, if it may be possible to shorten a discussion about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u30	I thank you for the president and for the chief. Minister for the answers. But last week the report was spoken of that week. In the past, there was another deadline, and, of course, ten weeks were mentioned initially. A request for this report was submitted to me in order to obtain the basis and perspective of this decision by the health secretary. Now, somehow, this report, which tore up the views and views of the health minister itself, has become a tool for not participating in the conversation and not informing the public. She is working against her goal. I'm glad the report is finally coming in tomorrow, but it's all the information available at the Ministry and it's been in the past and it didn't take 12 weeks to submit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u31	A respectable president. I've come up here looking for a new President about how difficult things are going with him. A well - arranged committee to arrange for the minister of the seminars to appear before the committee. We've repeatedly tried to get the highest. In the last few weeks, a health minister will discuss the problem of cervical screening with us, but it's been a disaster. So despite having invited any meeting time, we have not been invited to get officials for the committee. We have also tried in vain to get the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs for the Committee to discuss child issues that have been discussed, and this minister has also referred to officials. Of course, this is impossible because it is a very important matter but it is also the political decision of a minister in both cases. [[The president calls.]] It is quite unacceptable, respectable president, when ministers repeatedly refuse to appear before the World Council Committee to discuss the necessary issues with members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u32	Mr. President. Talk about reports. That's the one from the highest. marine emissary, on the possession of the largest commercial industry, on the involvement of the large fishing companies here attending seawater, in the natural resources of our Icelanders, and in their involvement in Icelandic society through investments in Icelandic employment, in non-active or linked enterprises. Now I'm, and we who asked for this report, had waited for about six months, and there's little or no news. While this, I hope, is not correct, as I have wondered from the Ministry, that the work is not started, that no one is familiar with the work that is supposed to have taken place there. I wish for the best of the team. A president who's taken hold of at least Once, to inform us when to get this report, if not exactly what the job position is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u33	President. I'd like to agree with what. The head of the welfare committee on how hard it seems to get a minister for the committee. I'd like to ask the highest, too. President on advice. What is the responsibility of a minister when it comes to meeting with the Generals when it is requested? I think it's so strange that ministers can just pick up a few things and say, "No, I can't, I can't, they're too busy, they're not going to show up. Is this a tradition? Is that all right, Mr. President? I'm asking because I don't fully understand where to turn in this matter. It must be so that if the Council of the Council asks the Minister to appear before the committee, it would be in some sort of priority for the Minister to appear before the committee. We've had problems with a health minister, as well as with the Minister of Social Affairs in huge matters that I really don't think were taken out of committees and have come to 3rd. without our permission to speak to the minister. I'd like to hear from the President what we're going to do when ministers come out like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u34	Mr. President. If the President is here gathering into the sea, I'm also going to request an assistant president who will submit to the respect of the council's will when it comes to establishing the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. I've been looking for President's help in this regard before. Here is the resolution of the Parliamentary decree that a minister should submit its bill. I refer to the legal opinion of the General Assembly that states that Congress is binding on government. How is it that you don't hear anything in this regard? Is there a conjugal conclusion we agree with here just for decoration? Last I mentioned, the Ministers are executives, the legislature is on this side, and we've agreed to this. Why can't I get a deputy president to repeat to the highest power? Prime Minister coming up with a bill? [[Up front.]] - Minister of Justice, all right. I don't care if it's Prime Minister or Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice is part of your government, Supreme Minister. Minister. We in this hall have already said that the bill was supposed to be here six months ago. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The prime minister even approved it himself. Why is it that I have to come here repeatedly and call for this bill? [[The president calls.]] This is big. It's a matter that attracts the rights of disabled people. How is it, during the final days of the council, that there is no quarrel between all possible matters? Dear President. Put yourself in charge of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u35	A respectable president. I just want to agree with what's been going on here. I have one request for a report that would be due last week and maybe expect it this week. I don't know. Still, it is three months in advance, so you are beginning to fall short of hope that it will return at the end of the council. I'd also like to agree to get a minister for a welfare committee like Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs with four cases in there. That he does not want us to ask him is, in effect, incomprehensible. Also regarding cervical cancer screening, the appearance and response of the health minister. No question about it. I've never been able to believe that it was possible to deny that ministers could simply refuse to appear before a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u36	A respectable president. In view of the fact that it is now being reported at the top of the report. A health secretary for the change and the screening procedure is scheduled for tomorrow's council, so I thought it would be reasonable to request a discussion at the Senate Hall on the top of the report. Secretary of health. This subject has been toasted during the discussion. We have seen medical and health - class professional society conclude against these changes, declare their concerns, and have a measure of strong words and strong criticism in those matters. I think that the uncertainty of women and people about this basic health - care service is in a way that helps them to understand that the report is discussed here at the Senate Hall and that hopefully the answers there will be no cause for concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to take my heart for a moment. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir's Guindaldóttir that we are being discussed with a panel report before the spring council ends, especially because the request specifically requested that all members of the Parliament be consulted on which noncombatant experts would be asked to write a covering report. Despite the approval of the Generals and the fact that no comment was made on the petition. I think it's absolutely necessary that this report not only falls into the President's drawer but it's a matter of public discussion. That's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u38	A respectable president. I hope to the highest. The President will be provided with a summary of all these indications. This is a number of strong tips for a president on how the council operates and how we get answers. I'd like to agree specifically that we're getting answers to President Perps to get the report we've been calling and have waited for for for more than six months, to provide the oversight of the 20 largest marine resources in other areas of employment. But then there's the other thing, which I would like to agree with, and it came into question. paritaprevir Ágúst Álús Álafs Ólafur of Ágústsson that we would not be able to finish at the Senate before election, and I'm sorry, I find it sad, I feel that it is a lack of ambition, indifference, i.e. that we will not establish the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People. There's something that's been going on, one of the government's projects. She was literally assigned to make the matter known. It has not happened, and I feel that it is a sad comment about this government and its attitude toward disabled people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with this by establishing the United Nations Convention on Poor People, but I'm also coming up here just to apologize. The report is here that I was complaining about earlier, so I'm just gonna thank you for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u40	The president does not have to enter into that case, but he received a request for a number of subjects that the president of the United States tried to write down conscientiously. He is not going to try to be helpful regarding the fact that the council is given information and after incidents that ministers come to the council when it is requested but would likely have to have a significantly greater power than the government order would give it if he was to be able to fulfill all of the council's wishes by his own means in these matters. The president accepted a request that a report, unattracted, be discussed, and that will be considered. Then the president hopes that unless there are others who would like to discuss the matter, we will be able to make a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u41	V.E.G. Last night, the president gave an inspired talk about how hard he had been in promoting the council. I wondered what was behind it. I'd like to ask the highest. Mr. President, has he had this conversation with the Ministers about respecting the will of the council when it comes to the resolution of the council? Consuming is the council's will, in all the textbooks of government law. The president points out that he may not have power in this regard, but he still represents us all here, a smaller part and more part, and I ask myself, "What do you think? ' President: Has he had a conversation at the highest level? The prime minister in this regard when the council decided when we decided to the council, our executive agents, should present a bill that claimed to legalize a contract on the rights of disabled persons? Or is it just some showy show when it comes to the Senate smell? V.E.G. The president is a very experienced man, he's been here since I was six years old. I wondered, " Is he not willing to make his own svana song that this party's will is respected? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u42	The president has already discussed this matter, and then the president pointed in mind. Following the publication of a special committee report following the Grand Parliament's major study report, one of the proposals of the Council Committee was to improve the maintenance of the Council with the Commission to this extent by the Supreme Court. A prime minister would be required to submit a yearly report on the progress of the synonyms. This has been done since, and in this way the council has increased its maintenance with the European Commission. But the president must say so, and hope that it will not bring everything to a fire and a bar, that the President of the Generalis, of course, does not have the authority of counsellers. The panorama itself monitors the European Commission and has strong tools for this. They have been strengthened in recent years, so it is, in fact, that the council itself and members of Congress, and especially the administrative and monitoring committees, have actually been the direct legal instrument rather than the U.S. president of the Generals himself. Of course, the president may try to wield his authority, and he has. I've had discussions with a minister about such a number of such factors as these, in my opinion, in the relations of the legislature and the administration. It has been added to work in this terms period to improve their communication. These include, for example, to the maximum. The prime minister is now regularly meeting with the heads of Parliaments and a prime committee, making clear the status of the cases, with the Constitution, and so on, so that there have been some testings in these matters. Yet, the world has not yet been made perfect. Of course, it is important that the general will be respected in this respect and in all other respects. Then, of course, the end of this talk is that ministers are responsible for their legal administration. That's the way it is. There it ends, but not at the table of the General President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u43	Mr. President. I'm going to inform a nation and a council of something interesting. To be expected is a large international film with Kidman Nicole and Alexander Skarsgård in the lead role. This is a Viking movie that happens in Iceland. But you know what? It's recorded in Ireland. Icelandic caves and landscapes are created in Ireland. Why? Because the recycling system is better in Ireland than in Iceland. It doesn't really matter much, but it does. We can change it here with one line of pens. We can raise the reimbursement from 25% to 35%. That's all. [[Up front.]] This would be an operation that would make money. Think of it: Creates a coin. But it's like a government - I've had a lot of talks about it - I didn't realize that there's no cash coming out of the box until there's a lot more than that. I wondered: " A very dear member of Congress. Would this not be a clever operation in hours of mass - work, and would we then enjoy a good culture in the company? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u44	A respectable president. We've made changes, and we've made more coincidences in reimbursement because of production of films in Iceland. It's getting a lot worse. We're paying back billions of dollars for the production of materials in Iceland, but we need to be careful with each other's steps. I don't think so, so we'll always get more dollars from what we put more dollars in reimbursement. And it's not necessarily that our best model country is the one that pays the most, it's been a huge race between countries. Yet, what we can say is that we have much to offer. We have not had a lot of work to do. We have had a lot of excitement, a lot of planning to get to the list, and a need to set priorities. I think we need to consider, too, whether or not we've got all that out of this we've been looking for. We are now faced with larger questions, such as whether it is better to be more broader on the basis of attracting us to film production and to contribute, e.g. ... thatthiswillbe here in Iceland, a largely so-called studio.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u45	Mr. President. As an amateur for tax competition between countries, I have to say that much of the Irish do well in that regard. They thus offer companies taxation that they have drawn to them foreign big companies and have received short - term benefits, including some of them. from their partners in the European Union, for offering a much more favorable tax environment in general. I think we need to discuss these things together, and of course we can ask ourselves, " Can I look for role models? ' correspondent in Ireland I'm not ready to agree with what. A senator's regard for this particular point now is, however, a tax rivalry between countries is a fact. It is efforts on the part of various international organizations to keep it under control, as do people only know from recent examples. The fact is, however, that is because of reason. One member of Ireland notes that the Irish have been very cruel in terms of tax competition in a number of areas involving taxation of employment drivers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u46	Mr. President. In this case, my proposal is that we decommission the tax, thus showing that a body of Congress has a legal law on sexual autonomy, which was recently approved here. In the hope that solidarity will be reached by the Economic and Business Committee on the progress of this proposal for the 3rd Environment. I'll take it back at two o'clock. and hope that we meet here soon again and take this small but urgent step, which is so large for such a delicate and important group.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u47	V.E.G. President. We're the members of the Central Party behind this issue. However, I gave the matter a warning because the Quantum Community sent us to the welfare committee some suggestions for improvement. I would have liked to see that this was taken into consideration. One of the Corporate Community proposals was that a parking lot in the basement continued to be announced to an apartment, but it requires a special parking lot to be taken over by an motion - related individual if necessary. I would've wanted us to take a look at that tip. I would have liked us to have listened to the United States of America.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir said earlier. It is intolerable that there are special parking lots in apartment buildings for disabled people they have no right to do. Those who build can sell to anybody who's this parking lot. They go with the apartments, and if there's a disabled person in the apartment building, he doesn't have access to these parking lots. He has to start making a deal with the owner of the parking lot. It just sucks. It's like saying, "We're gonna have a parking lot for you," but it's all fake. We just have to be first. Not even the appropriate apartment for the parking lot to be thrown out of this disabled person, so it's a genetic system that we have to deal with and modify.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u49	President. Pirats and I agree with this. It's fine, but I'm on the same notice as the ones who've been up here before. There were comments from the Qualification Society that would have been nice to take into account, but as with many cases now that I have recently experienced - and nothing recently but for some time in the Committee work - it seems that there is no time or will to change the matter much materially in the committee work. This case is to be taken from the Ministry as it is and agreed to it as it is, and to take it out of the committee. I think that's the kind of work I've been doing. I'm sorry that we as the World Council Committee, let us not be more ambitious at responding to the comments that come to us and put jobs and time into changing them so that they come from us than they come to us from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the members of the council who have considered matters to be listed at a committee meeting with the bill, where it is directed to the minister that these cases will be examined and considered in the Ministry, and whether these changes should be made. However, they were not part of the bill here and are, in part, not completely connected. However, I would like to deny what has been presented here, that in some way the committee worked in a small way on this matter or did not give itself the necessary amount of time. So I disagree completely, and I'd like to use my chance to thank the committee and what. For the job, he's an executive in Halla the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u51	A respectable president. They did not lack time or will. As mentioned in the Committee, we tried to see how this could be changed by criticism that came from the Quantum Community. The commission says, with permission of the president: A stratospheric proposal would include the one - sided source of one retail property to take over the property of another population. It's a question of opinion and complexity in the field of property, and you can't change it just in this bill. A closer examination would have been needed. There are building regulations and other laws that must be considered, but we direct them to the Ministry to have it checked. That's where I'd like it when I was looking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u52	Mr. President. Yes, I am a follower of this case, but with the same in advance as this has been reported by other members of my section. I'd like to come up here for this occasion and tell you that I think it would be a good idea for the Allied Congress to live between councils. This has been observed regarding the changes made in this way, where it would include a specially marked disabled person who needs such a thing rather than an apartment with an innocent person, that it would take so long because it would be so complexly permissible. It would be so good if the council could take the time that we need because we're the lawgiver and it's so lame to have to throw these things to the executives when we're the member of the government of the country who's supposed to make the law, polish them, and make them as perfect as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u53	Mr. President. We'll discuss changes in unemployment insurance law and sports carols for pay costs and contractors in the time of the Korean epidemic. I was going to give a few brief talks about paying for a sports club primarily. It is actually extending the period that includes. Sports companies can apply for payment on the basis of the laws we are considering. The athletes celebrate it, as shown by the reviews, e.g. Iceland's game trade relationship where they agree that these changes will result in a mild economic impact on sports activities, resulting in the need to re-enact the protection measures. The report of Iceland's Young People's Society agrees with this, since the youth society rejoices that it is suggested to extend these payments. It then says, by permission of the president: This action is essential, although vaccination is still unclear. It can both hope in the material as well as in the better way of having both belts and shoulder bands as they put it - at least to support the management of athletes, at least to do whatever is possible to keep them from being affected by the eruptive effects of the coral epidemic. Then they deal with the importance of sports. Maybe that's what I was going to discuss in my speech, i.e. the importance of sports and the importance of equality among society members of leisure activities, such as sports, on broad ground which are actually, Mr. President, more than just sports companies. We also have a review from the KFUM and KFUK Associations, where they point out that, for example, the CFCs. They are left out there in the cold, even though they are actually outlining the prevention, as sports and sports companies also do. I'm going to grab a little bit of that review dated May 16th. They say first, by permission of the President: ▪ Iceland's government has a rich understanding of the importance of sports and youth activities for the development and development of children and adolescents. And then, it's important that Iceland offers a wide range of good sports and youth work. Granted, the exercise there is an important place, but we must remember that not all children are involved in the sport. Many of them are more organized by another organized youth service. And what job would that be, Mr. President? You see, there are several other members of the organization that do young people in Iceland rather than just sports companies. It is true that while the athletes are powerful, large, and large, their variety of jobs and a large number of practice groups, there are also other activities, such as the Commission itself, the YES, as well as other members. I can mention, for example. Boy Scout work, and I'm sure you can pick up more parties. When these laws were introduced, they were referred to, but they were released. Now that this organization is changing this and extending this resources, that this organization can receive support to the labour agency for paying employees or contractors, it does not, neither now, Mr. President, is able to move it into the law to also take such an organization, which is so simple, which is really very simple, and is stated by the CHFFA board as they point out that it is simple to put it into Article 3. The law of the law, even in its own jurisdiction, suggests how it would be mentioned in Article 3. The law says so, by permission of the President: A Telefax: A lawyer in Iceland's Research and Olympic Association, the Union of the European Union of the World Scouts, the KFUM and KFUK in Iceland and other organizations who have in the name of sports and youth services contracts with the Education and Culture Ministry of Education, including the U.S.A. individual agencies serving on the behalf of the legislature. This is an definition of the law, but it will be changed and can be turned into the law now in order to support the work of these individuals as well. In particular, they point out that this is being done right now because it is temporary and this law. It is a temporary law of law, and it is simply put in. It is not that the others and these are being opened up to them. Rather, they are adding them to what is necessary for all to enjoy this State support, not just the sports organization, though they are important. In their review, they point out that the World Health Committee, by permission of a president, was: ◯... a unique opportunity to correct the mistakes made in the past winter on the sentence of law No. 155/2020. Mistakes that sent a very bad message to society, mistakes that do not bring honor to anyone. Mr. President, we are going to repeat this mistake that has been repeatedly suggested. The committee says in her opinion, with permission from the President: ▪ The more part feels that it is not now possible to make such extensive changes to the bill. He points out that the government has at present returned with resources to ensure a job opportunity for students in the summer. If this is the case, if it is extended to sports companies, it will again be done to temporarily eliminate the activities due to the official protection measures. The rest of the section welcomes the extensions submitted by Article 2. on income related unemployment improvements and section 4 and 5. the economic consequences of the Korean epidemic are still under way. Then it says: The comments on the subject showed that the resources that the bill contains should include more people, the right to unemployment benefits, the right to students, and the work of young people under the law on athletes'fees for pay and contractors during the Korean epidemic. The majority believe that it is now impossible to make such extensive changes to the bill. This isn't much of a change, Mr. President. This is a very simple change. It's just assumed that under this they should hear a work that has a contract with the Education and Culture Department, like the athletes and the youth activities I've mentioned here, the Boy Scouts and the KFUM. I spent a long time in sports and the building up of sports activities, including The director of a sports club, a special relationship, came to appreciate how much this work can have on young people. I also spent a long time working in a chess club. This has a profound positive effect on youths and reduces the risk of these children getting involved in disorder, crime, or drug abuse. It's certainly not that, Mr. President, it's only the sports companies that are working toward this goal. There are plenty of other companies, e.g. The Boy Scouts. Although I've never joined the Boy Scouts, it's a huge organization, the Boy Scouts all over the country. Here in Reykjavík, for example. The Yearly School of the Yearly School of the Year, in the Bourbourn district, is the Garth, the Grafarholt, and the Grafarvongin are Hamites, and even in downtown Reykjavík, the School of the Boy Scouts. In Seljamtown, the Boy Scouts Association is Magnet, in Vogga, and the Valley of Saturday, it's the S.H.I.A.P.D., in the Western town of the Boy Scouts. Don't forget Breinholt because in the Breinhholt it's the Veterans Association. These are beautiful Icelandic names that these Boy Scouts choose for themselves. In the country, powerful Boy Scouts are like, for example, strong Boy Scouts. In the Western islands where I lived for a long time, it is the great - and I know it - and a lot of young people and young people are involved in the work that is powerful. The Kopavog, the Boy Scouts Association, and the Isafjoins, are the Communion/Valvera. In the sheepfold of the year, it is the Evermore World and the Bolvensautice Society of Hunsau County. It's Bjarmi, in Selephossi's Boy Scouts, the Frasian Society. It's the Slugner Society of Melur, the Dalvik School of National Socialism, and the Mosfellsville Mos, of course. Then there are the Boy Scouts, who are taught their hometowns, such as the Ak Aranes School and the Cityhood Boy Scouts. Even in the country, it is the Sunheim Boy Scouts of the Grímes, and in the Whos Make Boy Scouts, the Vifill Club of Garða, the Viking of Húsavík, the Eagle of Gravitors, the Swans of Eelphunes. This might be the case and I've only mentioned a few Boy Scouts because there are many of them. In Rhinesville they are Heathers, in Hafnarfjörður, and not to be forgotten by the Akureyritic Society of the Caddy of Akureyri. I'm going to finish this list. This shows, Mr. President, that the Boy Scouts run a vast operation all over the country and that they understand this large group and just take away the sports communities, which, of course, are the biggest, the most simple changes in these laws I feel are incompetent. A traveling committee is to see its own respect in taking the Christian association of young men and the Christian association of young women, KFUM and K, with them in the process of making changes before we turn this bill over. I think it is simple, Mr. President, for a temporary arrangement to be discussed, and it only counts, if I recall correctly, until the end of February next year and is extended. So now, there is a unique opportunity to correct this, Mr. President, and give these powerful organizations the support they need. Some of these partners have employees, not all of them. Some may be buying contractors and could apply for support because by nature their activities are very similar to their sports companies. Children are being instructed, trained, physically or mentally, in Boy Scouts, just as in the YES and in sports. I feel alone that we're going into these changes and that we'd support that whole mind if it came out here. My time has now come to an end. I think the situation is getting better, but as the reviews indicate, we're not really going through it. I don't know what it's gonna be like. It is uncertain how this will happen over the next few weeks and months, so the bill is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u54	V.E.G. President. We here discuss matters that might be of limited value but that are of great importance to many. Those who have spoken here have pointed to the point that not all are put under the same hat in support, especially the sports communities involved. There are, however, other organizations that are left behind, such as KFUM and KFUK, that do not enjoy this system, not this time, and neither before. I'm gonna start by talking about that part. It's quite remarkable that in the majority opinion that came from a welfare committee, I'm on it in advance, I thought that it was pretty cool not to be able to take up the youth service in particular. We had some nice information about how important this is for KFUK and all of this, and maybe we're talking about younger kids, children, and young people. If we put it in even greater context, we'll be standing about 201⁄225% of our overall humanity outside the sports movement, which we'll leave behind one more trip. We're talking about a plan that'll be here for a few months and it would have been preferable to agree with everyone. If we put this in another context, then this 203/4:25% is perhaps equal to four or five athletes, so if it were four or five more sports companies, they would have been supported. It's not a big investment at all, as we saw in a review from KFUM and KFUK, not a big financial commitment, but so important. This is a matter of justice and of vital importance to the youthful movement involved. I'm not going to belittle the fact that sports companies play a key role in many ways, but this is another form of sports. This is the Boy Scout movement, the KFUM and KFUK, the U.S.R., the chess relationship, and LUF. These are all people who work on the basis of childhood nationalities and have made a deal with the Ministry of Education and Culture. In fact, we may be saying that we are discriminating specifically those not included, that they are left behind because they are not a sports club. I imagine the children and young people who pick up lake forests each time don't sit on their ass. I think it could be listed as well as sports, even though it may not be the same as we know about it, but movement and sports are certainly practiced there. It would not have been difficult to change this situation so that it would have reached that youth service. This would not have cost much, and the benefits would have been great. There's another thing about this, i.e. the message we have to send, that it matters where you choose to spend your spare time as a relief party so that you can continue your good work. But that makes sense, whether these are defined sports companies or defined as youth service. I think it's important that we do this when we discuss that we are deliberately leaving this group, children and young people behind. These are often kids who do not find themselves in organized sports. At the same time, we are discussing the need to keep children from becoming socially isolated. But many young ones have not been able to go to school properly. Many children have underlying factors that have helped them to keep their place at home. We see research and research that indicate that the mental health of children and young people is deteriorating. Yet, the choice is to leave this group behind. I'm sorry, and I think it's very important that it comes out here, that it would be easy to take this group, just for the summer. That is mostly what is being asked for. Another thing about this is that students are also left behind. So that's another reason why I was on the lookout for this. They're left behind. We received reports that on June 3, 9,700 applied to entering the campaign, but now, June 8, 2,700 people have got or got a career. It's been criticized that this is a late system, and it may be a slow system, but I know for sure that the employment agency and her staff are doing their best, working fast. But it just doesn't work any faster. Another indication of this is that people want to get out and do their part because everyone is ready for the parish we have to go to, for our good. But it's pretty lame that students are left behind. There's another group that I'd like to discuss also just here, there's those people who have completed a medical practice that also have problems getting into the job market because that group needs frequent and frequent adjustment at work and even taking a little longer to get back to work. I have news that it hasn't gone so well, understandably, maybe because the ones who were a victim at the time of the Covid pandemic got the hit e.g. not an introduction to job opportunities or interests. Was there a failure, for people may have been struggling to see until the next day, I'm not saying anything about it. But there are people out there who didn't finish out as well as we would like the resources we have to offer, which is, by the way, a very good plan. This brings me back to the work of the employment agency and the role of the employment agency and the people who want to do their part-time work and need a job; part-time job or some adjustment; I don't know what to call it, probably all these names. But it would be unmistakably wish to have the resources needed to help these people, for there are many who would like to get into the workforce and have not made it through because of this epidemic. Amazingly, students are left behind, as it turns out. It's also a little bad because students who often work with the school to make ends meet, but at the same time, they don't get right through a job-free bill, despite their employers taking out the insurance fees. So people have already paid for it, but they are not seeing to it that all of them work together. I thought it was a bit remarkable to argue in the opinion of the greater part that such extensive changes in the bill could not be made, i.e. not taking up the youth service and not allowing students there to be adequately involved, because these are not big cases, and they made some of the smaller parts a change proposal to meet students. However, the preaching work is still ahead of us. We're still passing them. I would think that they should try to do whatever they can to make sure that everyone would be an active member of the community at the same time that we read about it in the news and hear that the mental health of children and young people is deteriorating. There's one more dot that I just want to talk about, i.e. The sports job, and just to make it clear, I'm not talking down organized sports. On the contrary, I'm rather saying that we're the ones who are failing by not allowing anyone else to do it. It's not that the sports companies don't do, so they say. But we also know that not all youths who find themselves in sports are children, not all of them. They're not going to let the same kids get even more involved in their home. This is what I would like to underline, so I feel sorry for these people. These are the Boy Scout movement, the KFUK, which, of course, is part of the teenage society's work, the chess relationship, and then LUF. So this is a bit of us, I have to say it. Hv. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça read up some names of the Boy Scouts around the country. I was surprised to learn how many of these are. It tells me that it is then a considerable number of young people who do not enjoy those whom they could otherwise enjoy if their Boy Scout club was named a sports club. Maybe that's what it is. This is too tied up in some kind of system thought rather than taking note of what is being directed against us, and we are simply giving direction on how to do better. It's not that many months. This doesn't cost much, considering what's been done so far. If we are going to make our resources work well so that everyone can be on the same page again in order to be able to share in the society we would like to see, then it is our Generals to see that it is. I was in the Boy Scouts myself, and I enjoyed it. I also participated in U.S. sports. It's all about it. I'm just saying this because these types of jobs, this kind of involvement with you forever, and I hope that children and young people will make better people and, less important, prepare them for participation in our good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u55	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing this third matter involving a change in unemployment insurance law due to payment on sports partners due to pay expenses and contractors in the time of the Korean virus. This matter appeared a little later and may have been rather late in the process. I think it's a good case, overall. It's important to have here taken into account an athlete's club. It is also thought - provoking that it is a social minister who takes the initiative, not as a sports minister. But that's another story. Nevertheless, I feel very urgent and important that this matter has come up to draw out that the activities and activities of an athlete are somewhat different from those that are going and going to happen, especially because the whole project is based very much on volunteer work, which, in fact, always becomes harder and harder. Even so, it is important that the funds made by the athletes need support more often than not enough and that support is recognized in this bill. Of course, I would have wanted a perspective and an overview of how the sports movement has been held from the start. This is a fine example of how the conversation in this room is achieved by the improvement of the situation, that ministers wake up, for example, there's now one thing, in important matters. I think the big picture is that we've managed to get away from the biggest operation in connection with Covid. A respectable president. It matters how the council works. I've previously said that I feel that the government has been up for more than a year and a half, but in delicate times, uncertainty times, in the unpredictable conditions that have been in for over a year and a half, we haven't been in a standard government stand. It may be critical, but I still believe that there has been success and that we have already been through it, that there has been more calm, more calm, and more solidarity in the vast majority of cases of disease prevention. But surely we have been informed about the economic actions of the government. We immediately mentioned it, including. with regard to the sports movement, students, and the natural companies, small and large, taking big steps right away, especially about how we were going to put our hands on employees who have lost their jobs, hopefully just temporarily. We're on our way now, and I think it's a very positive thing that we see the tourism go on. This means that we will better get ourselves into even more valuable things to improve the economy of the welfare system, to live up to what we want to demolition in our country, including sports associates, leisure activities, etc. Nevertheless, comments have been made by the National Institutes of Students, students, and others. When it comes to this environment, right to unemployment improvement or not, the student council says, by permission of the president: ▪ Right to unemployment improvement is the security raised in distress by students who cannot look for other material security. The study bar is considered to be a social equation tool, which ensures that the resources do not ensure equality or adequate implementation, in line with the temporary increase in basics only to the students who earn less than the perennial target. The study bar system and the unemployment insurance system are two separate systems that have not been able to work together. This is one of these examples, it is as if some systems are restricted to work and talk, and it may end up falling into students from some situation that students eventually do not bear responsibility. Students correctly pointed out that in an overall review of unemployment insurance law, now in preparation, it was necessary to make an urgent change in the opinion of students' financial status, which is often bad, and to make sure that students have the right to protect themselves from employment and unemployment. We know that to make students fall out of school because of their limited financial resources, they have lost their jobs, and they cannot stay in school, and the point is that they do. These are indications that I believe have been important in the matter and that the members of the Central Party also correctly pointed to it above. It's a good thing that Iceland's Youth Association and the KSI and the Sports Association all agree with the arrangement that's being offered here, and that's a big deal. It is important that we try to promote solidarity, but we also understand that this field in our society needs support. Those of us who love and win sports often asked ourselves about some action that was associated with the end of sports, but in the end, I think we did well. We're seeing the sports going around here in the community now. Actually, it's hard to recall an FH and an IBV game the other day, but it was something so wonderful. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is a member of the district and it was a game that should have been better. But as soon as I congratulate the Outwards on victory, I tell them that it was wonderful to get back to the Cregan and feel that it's all going on gradually. At the same time, you sense the pressures of sports companies, those who are holding their sports companies. Nevertheless, once everything's gone down, we still have to pay the people a salary, whether they are coaches or staff or others involved in maintaining this system so that we, who are going to Krigan or others, can meet there when the opening is due. We'll support this case, and we'll be glad it's done, even though it might've run out sooner. This is an example of a better approach to the council, a better way to communicate, and a better outcome. It is all part of promoting solidarity and understanding of the times we've been going through, as well as the fact that the athletes can keep their work going with less anxiety in the books. I'm glad that you're extending the period in which athletes can apply for pay to the employment agency based on a team payment. I think it's important. Other than that, I hope that we will be able to go through the various viewpoints involved in this matter, and it is quite proper and important to discuss here in the Senate Hall. But how important it is that we have sports and sports life walking, both now that we are on our way but also that it continues to take on even more foothold so that we can achieve small and large victories into the future, no matter what sports we are talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech and agrees with the senator that he certainly had done so, so to speak only in the ballast, it would have been more desirable if the game had gone differently. But that's what these sports are like the politicians. You don't know exactly what it's gonna be like if you try and do what it's best, that's what it's like. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. We are grateful for the action taken, it is clear, and this bill, which is clearly improving. But it comes to my impression that the changes requested, including students and the youth societies, were too extensive to change the bill. I feel that these measures of the government, as good as they are and as far as they can, do not cover all the groups they need to reach. There's always some left behind, that I don't want to say. This epidemic has been just as cruel to so - called juvenile society as to sports society, although it may be some relative difference, I don't know how. But he has, of course, also, as indicated in student comments, come over them. That's why I'm asking. A senator would have been wrong, even though we were supporting this case, because it will clearly help and improve the situation for the sports movement that we all want to do, and if it had not been a little more ambitious in allowing this to go further. They're calling for it, and here are some of the reviews, including. For a sports club to be supported, but the Boy Scouts in the next house do not receive it. So I'm asking if it wouldn't have been better to let it be a little more extensive than cut it over there by a nail.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u57	The president misspoke earlier when he presented himself. A senator, he identified himself as a 6th General of the Southern District, which he is not also a southwest district. This is important when we consider recent victories or defeat in the South Sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u58	A respectable president. That's right, it's a southwest-circuit in which Hafnarfjörður is and is rocking the handball. But that's another story. This may be one of these issues regarding the methodology and the work environment that we could have done better in order to see that some would be left out. I'm not saying that governments and governments want to touch and meet groups at once. A senator, like the Boy Scouts, said nothing at all. I'm not going to do that to them. On the other hand, I think the conversation, including... In our position of government, preparation, and listening, we could have been even greater, and we would have gained even greater solidarity in this important matter. The reason we at Welson said that we had to take a big step right away about the workforce, to put our people and our companies, our entire job life, was because we had to endure this epidemic that is now over, so it would be sports society that could set off after a break, that would be sports companies and sawies and others who could, not just light, but take their vital sports activities away, hobbies that we have, and they would offer up the lights, not least for our children. So, yes, I believe they could have prevented the hopes from turning into disappointments in this whole matter. It may be too late to talk about this now, we're going through this and we need to focus on the next phase of our enormous economic stability and the way we get our jobs back on to promote the well-being, contribute to our ability to keep on education, culture, and sports life, etc. [[The president calls.]] But, yes, I think it would have been possible to prevent groups being left behind that should have rightly been given more attention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u59	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the President for the correction here. The Senator simply did not notice from which district he came for a moment, but it is becoming clear. I thank a senator for the answer. It is clear that when the epidemic struck, the central category and the restoration agreeed, and we saw how the response would have to be a big step, actually taking the whole case. Sadly, that was not done. On the other hand, I think it's right for men to have done their best, all as one. I also wondered if it's a will or lack of will, so to speak, for the government to handle difficult matters, which makes it work out that it's too big a matter when we arrived at whether the youth and students should have received some support. Then I can think of another matter that may not be related to this, but we have seen, for example. that the government decided not to allow any money to grow into an independent enterprise in the education sector but to put all the support to the government's interests instead of supporting the companies or private people who offer education. Then you wonder: " Wait, why wasn't the overall picture seen there? Why are they also given support? ' I think we're right next door. A senator may not have lacked in himself the will to do things, at least not to do them. But now that there was an opportunity to add in this matter, both the youth - oriented movement and to meet students, you wonder whether there was a lack of will or lack of money, lack of ability, or lack of perspective. Something is what made humans look forward to not responding to these wishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u60	A respectable president. I want to agree with everything. The above comment by a senator, also under the question of what has been lacking. I reiterate that I don't think it necessarily lacked will, I think more than that it lacks perspective, and when the perspective is lacking, they lack the will to work with others, to get more perspective, to think about the width, to see that it doesn't harm more hands on tires, though it may cost gratitude to go on more than fewer shoulders. Many times it's about that, we know it in the politics, and especially when elections are near, ministers are careful to have their meetings and their introductions in the contingency of elections. It's an old story and a new one. Nevertheless, in this case it would have been possible to prevent certain groups from being left behind if we had taken those big steps right away. The second is the case. A senator pointed out, and as far as the state put a lot of money in the state's running schools into a bullshit competition with independent active people who keep out courses, women who have their breads to live because of temporarily holding out studies, small companies, etc. It is very thought - provoking, but it is no longer surprising. However, it is willing to give the State more the benefit of the doubt, allowing the State to deal with these matters rather than with diversity, to care for competition. The competition is so powerful for good works, its drive to get new ideas and to improve in society, both in government and in private. So, yes, this government, as we can see only in health matters, it was no accident that it put extra funding on the state of state but left behind the personal skills.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for an excellent speech. That caught my attention. In his speech, a senator mentioned that it was to some extent special that this was happening through the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, but not the Ministry of Education, I give myself that it was the meaning of that comment. I remembered when I listened to a talk. The senator answers, and he's in charge. The Minister of Social Affairs, when the case was originally moved here last December, where it was quite possible that the contractors would pass through some kind of fund that the Minister of Education was supposed to have on their own jurisdiction. The present issue is simply an extension of that matter. It says in a talk at the highest. Department of Social Affairs with that discussion, by permission of the President: It is important that this bill is examined in the light that there is one piece of paper in the form we now bring to the sport. The Minister of Education will request an approved warrant to raise the funds that will be distributed through this income crisis grant, and it will be expected to be paid through budgets, and hopefully it will be approved. This is what the minister said at this point. Then, in dealing with the committee, the reasonable position was taken that the campaign of government - the most true verbs - brought them little happiness, the viewpoint represented by the government, including the rest, to be held here at 1st. that the contractors would need to fall under that. This may be an outcast, but what I want to ask you is. A member of a former Ministry of Education is how this looks toward the environment in which the athletes operate and a free society that in one way or another relates to the Ministry of Education. How does it look that this factor is taken out of the hands of a minister of education where the solution would be normal, in my opinion, and I think it would be. A senator will agree with me, to the custody of a social minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ólason's gymour for pointing out that this case has improved in the case of the council, and especially through the position of the government that immediately pointed out, I think that there has been a sharp turn of events. A senator did the same, that there was a need for contractors. However, it tells me something that the Minister of Education may not have had his fingers on the case himself. It may be, in order for everyone to be truthful, that this is a technical means, this is a simpler way for the sports society to obtain these payments, i.e. to be passed through a work agency. It may well be. However, I felt that initiative was lacking. I felt a lack of the conversation and an overview of how sports would wind up during the epidemic that it was on the part of the government, on the part of the government, that it was on the side of the government. For a time, I felt that they were a little bit left over. We knocked on the door, and we said, "Wait, what about sports? That initiative was lacking on the part of a minister of education. Fortunately, things have improved. It's getting better now in the final half of the virus epidemic, but things don't happen by themselves, and in a struggle for capital gain, for attention, each minister needs to think of his own party. The minister of finance, which can always be ashamed of all kinds, is not responsible for how education ministers set priorities, and I would have liked to see sports, as well as culture, again in chronological order. [[The president calls.]] As I say, these factors did not appear until the epidemic had passed, although things have been done well after they were scheduled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer may well be to take on a number of points. A senator mentioned the time frame or delay, so to speak, which led to the laying of these actions. I see here on my own talk from this discussion that from December 3, 2020, it is now ten, eleven months from the time of the outbreak. Now this issue is in place, this extension, and allows for a four-month extension of these measures from the previously estimated endpoint. How does that measure? This is a reasonable time for a senator to have as a guide the end point of this resolution, or as a guide. A senator said that it would be wise to bring this down in some way? Or the sports companies, by the way. A senator has come to the place where their general business is comparable to that of a pandemic? In view of this extension, it is, of course, being said that at this point, a new finish point, we should be at that point with the sports environment in terms of revenue and expenses. I'm afraid things that lead to the general funding of sports partners and fortitude and the like will not be at the place we used to be, and we may need some adjustment phase there, but not such a finish point that leaves full support at 0 more than one month's match. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u64	A respectable president. Yes, it should have been cleaned out, and it's far from possible that when you just start to open a little gap, hundreds of viewers are in the house or on the soccer field or whatever it is. It's not like that. They need money from the audience. But we also know that the advertising revenues have been reduced, their self - worth has also been reduced, and their allowances have been reduced because the companies have maintained, normal, and are also trying to follow up on priorities, and that is not always so much of the sports companies are at the top of the list. So it's turned for them in their business, and it's going to run, it's going to take some time for the athletes to achieve their first swing and return at the time of the operation. Of course, there are differences between rural society and rural society, but the communities, I like to commend them, have done what they can to meet the sports companies, and perhaps they are part of their role as well. But they have tried all over the country, some of which may have been ill, but they have done so, supporting their sports work and contributing to their continued activity. I would have liked to see some plan, since it's not being brought down. I would also want to see it for the sake of a minister of education because there are certain funds, such as the travel fund of a sports club set up in 2006 or 2007 to pay for the travel expenses of the people in the country in the sports movement. There is also a fund that strengthens the activities of sports companies, especially since some of the volunteer work is reducing and the business of the two countries has become more difficult. [[The president calls.]] I would have liked to see additional steps like that to take at least temporarily around these activities of sports society, especially when they are getting into this wonderful life, the free life that now awaits us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u65	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u66	Mr. President. I want this discussion, where we're dealing with the bill to legalize the unemployment insurance laws and the law to pay sports companies for the pay and shop shops of a Korean epidemic, and as it is called, to review the history that follows, as it were. The current issue is that the main extension of a case was proposed and adopted in December as a response to the Korean epidemic. In addition to the bill or the article that was then agreed on and the action is here to enter a provisional law that reads, by permission of the president: During the four weeks following the implementation of this provision, the labour oce should pay the jobseekers who had been paid permanent unemployment for 14 months or more - which is the period that this pandemic has set aside - on May 1, 2021, and have been fully committed. III. or IV. section on the specified time for a specific 100,000 bucks. the level of employment-free insurance, as the jobseeker has been paid unemployment improvements by April 2021. It can be said that this is the main addition to the extending of 2 Peter 3: 1. g., where it is being added four months after the specific life span of this solution. As it turned out in my objection to what. paritaprevir Then, in the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, I give a little bit of concern that the endpoint is so narrow in terms of these solutions, that it will not be tried out in a few steps, even if there were only two, because the entire environment of the athlete society will probably not be restored immediately and the limit is lifted. These include the self - raise of sports society, whether by virtue or by ticket or by other factors. We heard that in discussions about these matters before the convention and the information received to the council and the reports that reached the environment are very different in terms of sports society. It's harder to get sponsors and sponsors, the amount is lower, and so on. Of course, as February 1, 2022 draws closer to a new government in the country, but I think that at that time it will be necessary on time, and likely to be related to funding at the end of the year, taking into account that this factor may have to be developed in some step but not with a definitive endpoint for January/page 2020, which is now known as the most difficult time of the year in many ways. I think we need to keep that in mind. Another thing I would like to introduce here, which is related to the background of the case that was presented in December and accepted as the basis for this matter, of course, in all principle, is a significant comment that even turned. that there is a great contractor in the sports movement. Not only athletes who are involved in sports contracts with communities and coaches are often at the contractor's contract but not employed as employees at that club. Happily, depending on our strong comments and follow - ups on various aspects of the government field, the contractors were responded in ways that were covered by this bill and made as close as they were to pay, but not entirely. Now that more time is available for the work, it would be wise to try to bring this matter in order to ensure that the contractors and remunerations would be identical in terms of support. In review, adjustments were made to the 2nd. The case last December suggested a reimbursement rate on the work contracts, and this adjustment was made. If I recall correctly, it was simply on the basis of obvious evidence that dosing was not possible, but I think the council would actually be about supporting the contractors at sports companies. If the matter were to come up with a further opinion, it would be reasonable for me to consider whether this percentage would be resolved now, just in view of its real impact. If I recall correctly, although I do not have the suggestion now, I think that the proposal went on to increase the reference ratio from 70% to 90% and the 20 percentage points rise in being an additional 30% to the support the contractors receive or produce. I reiterate that if the case goes back to the committee I think there'd be a reason to bring it up to Excel and propose a change of motion at 3. Um... at the end of the story, where it'll be equal. I realize now that we are in the 3rd, of course. but not the 2nd. but this does not change the fact that this adjustment could occur if it is willing. On the other hand, the facts that appeared strange to some in December may be technical in times of trial. It's that it's set up and done through the Department of Social Affairs, and the Department of Employment. When the groundwork was being measured, which is now being extended, these factors were thought to go through the Ministry of Education and profited there. It says, in the speech of the highest. Ministers of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, permission of the President: It is important that this bill is examined in the light that there is one piece of paper in the form we now bring to the sport. The Minister of Education will request an approved warrant to raise the funds that will be distributed through this income crisis grant, and it will be expected to be paid through budgets, and hopefully it will be approved. I'm just saying that there's been a move into the budget that was designed through the Ministry of Education, because I think it's a fact that nothing came through there to meet the setbacks of the sports movement. V.E.G. Social Ministry continued in the same speech, with the permission of the president: ▪ I reviewed it in my first talk, why the contractors aren't in the bill now, what the evidence was for, and where that change came from. Later, the minister, by permission of the president, says: However, we reserve funds that will also be requested at the council, to be treated with contractors, which are about to be paid. The same amount of money that this bill is expected to cost. The minister goes on to say: ▪ Because people wonder about the transparency of such intervention, I assume that it will be one of those things that the Minister of Education will publish when the council decides to give her permission to post money for that project. As I was in the past, it was changed, and it all went through the Department of Social Affairs in times of trial. But the reason I'm here to mention this is that there has been a huge beat on certain stewards lately, where the state funds have been as wide as any available in terms of securing the support of certain groups, but it was quite evident at the beginning that there was no special understanding in the government that the contractor part of the sports movement would need to be given the same support as the employee part, because it was obvious. Of course, this is a reaction to our desire for government opposition. They will respond because they are so facing you. What I found very strange in December was that this understanding was not there. Of course, he should be there at the Ministry of Education, for that is, of course, the Ministry of Education that is in constant contact with those who handle these things. However, this situation was more than ten months after the outbreak, and it is, at best, surprising that the lack of understanding of the situation was the way it appeared in the bill, as it was foretold on December 3 of the last year. In December when the original case was confirmed, which is now being extended, said the highest. Social Affairs and Children's Minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, on a discussion of why it would not be considered that the task force of the sports movement falls under the legislation, by permission of the President: ▪ On this basis and also on this basis that a labour agency is working with pay, working with remuneration, not with contractors, was decided to make changes, to put the bill forward in this way that the funds intended for the contractors'payment in a special fund made out of a part of a minister of education. This is where we put our money. I assume that when they ask for money from the council to give them money to the Ministry of Education that provides them from there for the sports movement, they will be identified as a requirement for this money. It was quite clear in December that the government's aim was to leave a part of the sports movement behind in this regard. Certainly, there was a plan for a coin to be placed in a fund as a minister of education, but it has worked out in chapters as it has worked out. I just want to use this opportunity because there is not much left in my speech, to commend my fellow workers in the opposition of the government for bringing this matter to a much better degree than it was originally. I think it was a huge deal for the country's sports movement. It has been crucial that the pay expenses, the cost of the sports movement, have been agreed on by the contractor's work. The reason I review this position is the highest. A social minister at the beginning of the case is that this is important. In the beginning, the government's will did not come to the level of the contractors. This was one of the significant adjustments in the Senate's activities, and the change in the matter should, of course, emphasize how many times the opportunity to listen to at least part of the administration site for the proposed solutions, instead of having to pick up the solutions in one mask or a few weeks or months later. Of course, we know this discussion from the past few weeks and months, and it has been repeated. I'm just going back, in view of how well this route has worked, and now it's extended by four months, to commend us in the government stand for having adjusted the matter in such fundamentals as this in December, and I think that it was for a great deal of good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u67	V.E.G. President. Most of the things we talk about are good. Certain measures, as mentioned here, are being extended by the epidemic that struck us and, of course, are for the benefit of those involved in the law. In fact, some would have wanted them to reach more, and I'll only come in on it. In the beginning, I want to agree with what's happened earlier in talks about how important sports and all around them are for us, not just young people, who may be the most skilled athletes, but all of us. Of course, some of us could be a little more active in sports, but it's just as it is. Then many direct and indirect jobs create a great deal of sports in our society and are thus important to them in addition to their good health. It has been observed here in the discussion that this is at least the case. two groups that claim to have been left out, I name students, and the so - called childhood society, or youth - service, and those under whom it belongs. The Boy Scouts have also been mentioned, and there are others. I agree that it would have been desirable that a little more ambition would have been put on reaching these groups and add them to the fact that their work is as important as it is of other sorts, if you let me put it that way. Of course, many have become ill - mannered by considering this epidemic and how it has treated us. We have many opinions about how we have worked out and what might have been done differently. In the foundation, our experts have just done quite well. We do not always agree or agree with how things are arranged or how they are made and made, but we Iceland are few in a very large country, so the results of the experts'work have been quite good. But it's important for us, and I'll only come to that later, about looking forward, thinking about how we're going to answer the questions that are waiting for us. A respectable president. I'd like to mention in the beginning that I think it would have been more reasonable for those who were changing this bill, i.e. The committee, looking for further guidance, and making an even greater effort to find solutions to those who feel that they are left out. I realize, though, that after it reached her, the committee put forth earnest effort to make this matter the best possible. Of course, there is something special, as noted in the reviews, that there is a difference between sides, both caring for youth, young people, one with sports, the other with some other kind of work, such as culture or training and education, like the Boy Scouts. In the world today, there is so much progress in anything that is considered sports and/or hobbies and culture that we can barely follow through on it. It's interesting to see the growth that has taken place in recent years in electronic sports in Iceland, that world is growing tremendously fast, and as you have learned to read it, you seem to be watching and observing electrical sports more than most other sports when they are walking. Therefore, we must have and should give high priority to the fact that all sports programs are at the same level when it comes to coverage, management, and so forth. I think it is very important, too, to admit that with new sports articles, whether they are called electrical sports or something else. Then we can reach a team of sports and youth jobs that we may not have reached before, and that, of course, is a great improvement, Mr. President. It was also found that it was willing, not only to the youth movement, but also to students, that the matter would reach them and is sad that it could not be achieved. I wondered about the expression in the committee's opinion that it had been so extensive or so extensive. I'm going to quote the commission directly, with the permission of the president: ▪ The more part feels that it is not now possible to make such extensive changes to the bill. He points out that the government has at present returned with resources to ensure a job opportunity for students in the summer. As a result, when it is presented in the committee's opinion that students have been met in some ways by some means in the field, it is a very different case, though positive. At the same time, however, we see that those who want to use summer to further their education do not have the opportunity to study in a foreign country. The government, or any member of it at all, some classes, or even individual members, believe that they are messengers of great freedom today, freedom to defend the individual, to promote competition, and all these fine words used during a day. However, this does not fit the government's work when we see that hundreds of millions of people are provided for government training or public agencies during the summer, education and education, while those who create jobs in the private sector in this field, with a wide variety of educational and educational programs, are not really paid a price. All summers go in and out of the box in one way or another. This is to my very critical effect and not to fall, just not to build up for future things, i.e. how we cope with today's situation, how we build up. We need to look to it now. This government lacks a vision of how we're going to rebuild our good country, how we're going to build up our athletes, our professional life, so we can get strong out of this boring epidemic we've been fighting. We need to start looking at how we're going to keep things on, how we're going to make money, create jobs, make opportunities for e.g. those who accept this matter of support, support, or reform, and get it started again, build them up so that they do not need the support of the State, and may begin to earn their own money. This is for temporary purposes, it is quite clear, and ends at some point. However, we have not seen anything on the part of the government on how to do this. The financial agenda we've seen, financial policy, doesn't deal with this as far as I'm concerned. It's too vague and too gray a document, so I'll let myself put it that way, to provide some vision of how to get into the future of this situation, how to create jobs and valuables that truly need. I think it's very important that we tell them right away that we have to do this by creating an environment for these companies and businesses, for their working life in Iceland, so that they can grow and thrive, so that they can make more money, and they can manage more people, and thus they come to their aid, or the people who receive support. I think there's something we have to call for, get to see the cards. This suggests that the government today formed an alliance of some kind to continue sitting, receiving support. Then we have to face it, if that's how I hope not, then we haven't been able to figure out how to solve the problems we face. Given how things are handled today, I am not optimistic about what would come out of such action. I'm going to reiterate what I said before. When we present such measures as this and even though there is a certain sunset rules in all of this, we must also be able to say to our wonderful people who are helping us see that we are going to build or improve things in this way. I'm gonna let myself tell you that we have to watch how we can strengthen our companies in the country, no matter what their names are. We need to look for ways to increase their income. How can we do that? We can do so even. through the tax system, by creating them a better management environment, by simplifying the whole system they live in, etc. This, of course, applies to sports communities and childhood society and to others with some kind of activity. There is now one adjustment proposal from a smaller section of the Committee, which is presented on this issue. As you can expect, though, these are nice and nice and good people who put them up with good evil, but I do not fully understand how to implement these ideas, that jobs can be turned down for a job if they do not fit the educational or professional experience of the person. No doubt it can be implemented in some way, but I think that there can be a great reversal where to draw the line. But we'll see. This may be explained in the discussions that will be discussed on this subject. To be clear, this case is for the better, that's for sure. Certain activities are being extended that are important to extend. Of course, it would have been possible if we had not had to extend, but it is clear that there is another situation. Some time later, we are building the land in view of the greatest pronouncements of our day. But we can control it, such as not entirely alone, so we need to have a little understanding of it. That, however, is what is going to be the most important thing now and that is where the present government, the government, has given away wealth. At the end, I want to reiterate what I said earlier in my speech: I think there is only a lack of desire to resolve this matter, i.e. to meet the points given. I'd like to grab on here for one report, and I don't think I'd like to notice the names of the members mentioned here. It says that it is clear to everyone how crazy it is, for example. The karate department can get support in the name of the law, but a Boy Scout club is left outside. Both parties represent a vigorous and professional youth service, and both members are members of the collective organisation with a service contract with the Ministry of Education and Culture. Now we have a chance to correct. I agree with this because there is clearly a certain difference between two parties who are under the same hat, who do the same or similar tasks to improve the man, health, and mind. That's why it would have been better, even if the case was improved, that these parties had also been put under this hat, and the changes we're making here, will be agreed on by what I'm determined to do. I think everybody agrees to accept this. You've always been one in these Covid-related cases, or almost always. However, it is time to start discussing politics, discussing politics, and taking over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u68	Mr. President. I just want to have a place to say. A member of the council because he referred to a change in motion made from a smaller part of the welfare committee regarding whether a job is appropriate for professional experience and education. I think we need to consider that in the context of the paragraph in which this is inserted. That's 57. legal on unemployment insurance, which is a highly estimating article in which it begins with the words: a business agency shall be evaluated in terms of a law of repairs. 1.mg. whether the decision of the faithful man to refuse a job has been justifiable by various factors. These include age, social situations associated with impaired performance or care of young children. Furthermore, it is permitted to look to home situations when the person rejects a job away from his home. I think it's a good example of how ecstatic it is. If you are, for example. Living in a sheep's jar and receiving an invitation to work in Hafnarfjörður, there are good reasons why we cannot accept that invitation. I actually feel that this adjustment makes me feel the same way. It's a little bit about people not only think you're doing a job that's called an event and you're involved in earning money, but that you're working on something that you think you're good at or something that you're interested in and that you're good at. Job experience and education are ways that we can measure how people fit in. If people have all their experience and all their education in a field that may be completely unrelated to the work they are invited to do, why not set them in such equating provisions as justification for not accepting a job?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u69	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I don't know if there's an improvement in the number of evaluable factors. This may be, and in some cases it is likely that a person with certain experience and education would not rely on a job that he is neither educated nor experienced in. Maybe it's just because of the way you're raised to think; that even if you're educated in something else, it might be more important to have a job, even though it's not the right one, i.e. If it is impossible to get the so - called right job. In fact, in this case, I do not appreciate it that those with certain professional experience and education will reject all jobs. I think it's not like that, of course not. But I don't know if this is necessarily a benefit. I just want to think out loud and maybe you're not even supposed to be wondering, but I wonder, " Is there anyone with a particular education in a relatively narrow field or something like that, or professional experience in a rather narrow field, can be on the unemployment record acquiescing and sacred because it does not come in exactly a job? ' But certainly there is a problem. A senator should be aware that this is part of a process of assessment, these are estimating items that need to be taken into consideration. I think I need to think this through.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u70	A respectable president. I think it matters when we are discussing these matters that we decide whether we are talking about the system as we would like to see it in the future or a system that could deal with the problems we face today. I understand exactly what the senator is doing by saying that it cannot be desirable for someone to hang onto a unemployment record forever because the perfect job does not fade away. But we're talking about options from the crown virus epidemic. The economic effects of the epidemic will hopefully be around the world soon. I wrote to the senator that having a job was more important than getting the right job, i.e. if it was impossible to get the right job. But should we give ourselves today when we are rising up from the situation after Covid that the right job is impossible in the near future? It is a question of whether there is a valid viewpoint, at a time when unemployment is much, but hopefully very temporary, to loosen the rules just so that we are not pushing people into the same narrow channel and may naturally be on a normal year - long trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u71	V.E.G. President. As I understand it, it's a motion that's not temporary, it's permanent into the law. If someone accepts a job that may not be appropriate, he can, of course, later apply for a job that is released or advertised, which is appropriate according to his job experience and education. He is not bound by the work he gets in the meantime. I'm more likely to fear that if we start changing this so that there'll be a chance of major interpretations, and many exceptions, we may have some sort of incentive for people to look for less work, less work, less recovery. Of course, some cannot take any job. Some need our support, and we should help them, of course. I have doubts about this as well as why. A senator hears. I don't feel completely clear, and I may be mistaken whether this is temporary or permanent. It only matters to me. It may be that while we get out of this situation, it is only natural that it is a question of rejection. But I don't know, it's very difficult, as they sometimes say in this chair. You're made to have a job, that's just the way it is. It may be difficult to put them in another situation, unfortunately. But we try, and I know that this suggestion is made with good minds, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u72	V.E.G. President. I said here in a talk on a kitchen day last night that the government's response in this epidemic had been quite a shock. Here is one example. This is fine, but at one time, certain measures were being extended, so that we did not have to do it enough, and we still need to respond. Of course, we, as we have always done, agree with the government, with the government and with those who are involved because people who have lost or who have risked losing their jobs in the pandemic on the natural support of all of us. But it doesn't change, Mr. President, that the trade is frequent and has been ridiculous. The measures taken, especially in unemployment insurance, have resulted in borderline events that are not included. What may be painful about this case is that this situation is not equal, e.g. among those who practice youth. Such association, such as, for example, seems to be amiss. YES and K are not enjoying the same rights as sports companies. Yes, Mr. President, it has been observed that, for example. has made this epidemic very difficult for children and adolescents. The danger is that they will continue to live in a spiritual imbalance after the epidemic is ◯ the end of the road, or when we see out of this greatest set of code we've ever been fighting. The children are not available, they continue to worry and to fan things, unfortunately. That is why the association involved in building people up spiritually as well as physically, such as the KFUM and the Boy Scouts that are not in here, should not be here. That is why I feel personally and to many of us that there is no equal in these laws. The other thing I was going to mention, Mr. President, and mention is peripheral cases, i.e. that it appears that the measures recently performed in the monography position have not been adequately fitting. They have often sat by and have not enjoyed the measures taken and/or that the action has not been clear enough, so it has been difficult for them to get listening to their problems. Well, there's a lot to miss, Mr. President, because there are often people who don't have money to pick up. They have often been such people as music, photography, and art. and has been affected by this epidemic and because, as many know, weddings have been very low in the country for over a year, so that there is a collection, not a problem, but a growing need for people to get along well with each other. All of this, however, has contributed to the well - being of many singles. What is lacking in this matter may be first of all - the care of equality and second, to be careful about monarchy, and especially of those that are in what we call arts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u73	A respectable president. That's where I missed it. I was going to go back to what I said. Sæmundsson It's because it's just that we love having a place of words somewhere else, maybe right here in front of us. But we're here on bill to legalize unemployment insurance and sports carols for the pay and contractor shops of an outbreak of crown virus. All I wanted to do was take my words into account the situation that exists today. Of course, it is necessary to have an extension of the current recommendations, but there is no other way to come up here and have a word for the strong debate that has only been received a little through the halls, which is about the way jobseekers are using the system, that jobseekers are not responding when employers come up with a full pocket of work and offer them. Unfortunately, this discussion has only recently been held, and I must say that I rejoice when the director of a employment agency and others who have become familiar with these matters come out and report the reality as it appears to them. It is true that the current labour market, starting work around the world, creating a number of jobs, and, of course, being good. However, this is a labour market where an employer receives support from our joint funds to recruit people, and then, of course, he needs to make sure that at the same time the same person, the same company, is disintegrating employees in order to recruit employees with government support. This morning, there was a reason. the head of the work programme and the employee and only reported on how this important project is being carried out, 9,000 jobs are involved, and each jobseeker may be able to apply for several jobs at once. You apply for a job, deadline expires after two weeks or ten days, or something like that, and you have all hooks, fish in different tickets because as a jobseeker, you may apply for your dream job in one place, only less dream job in another place, and then perhaps two, three other jobs you're going to if it's offered but it's not your dream job. Why aren't they doing their dream job? Yes, possibly because they are neither suitable for education nor for previous professional experience. Worktime may be unfortunate because of family circumstances or other circumstances, the workplace, distance from home, and may be unfortunate, etc. But it was very good to hear a clear stand from members of the Committee regarding the lack of awareness that people are denying jobs just to remain on unemployment. They simply say that it is not, that there are less than 2% who are directly denying the job offered. Of course, it is the same with the many jobs involved in this work that all of this takes time. Why? Yes, because the person who has the job, the employer, comes in to the labour oce, possibly with some documents in his pocket that a job is available, informs the employment agency, the labour oce needs to review papers and contracts, and the like, because the employer has brought this into their hands. However, there will be some information to fill out, that will fill out information about a potential employee but also simply information about buying and obtaining, or information about working hours, or information about other matters. Of course, it's stalling. It delays the process when data are inadequate when they arrive at the labour oce and in the case of 9,000 jobs, it is obvious that much effort is required. The committee found that this was not so simple that these jobs could only be taken out of the box and distributed over the population. There is, of course, a need to ensure that employers are not signing, that the minimum wage is not being paid, that jobs are not required for their lack of fees, or that circumstances are somehow out of line with the laws and rules of the labour market. Of course, this is something we cannot discount, even though there is a lot of unemployment. Why can we not do that? Yes, because it would have a significant impact on the entire labour market in Iceland. If it would now allow us to give some discount on not paying the minimum wage for a particular job, we would be in some kind of germane down the whole system and all over the system. Then we'd be riding a competition on a market between comparable companies, creating a single global stimulus for society as many as possible as possible to start a pack of data to cover pay expenses. Of course, we can all see that this is not working at all. It's because of what this process all is taking a long time, it's stalling, and despite the good intentions of all the staff in there. It is, as mentioned earlier, to work hard to get quick and well - equipped applications that are in there and mate together free jobs with job mobility but also to make sure that people are not being piged at. And I have to say that I'm very happy that the labour agency is making this effort because in conditions such as now, when so much unemployment is, without denounced unemployment, we've not seen anything like it for a long time, there's a great chance that the impulse to invite people who are in need has possibly been out of work for a long time, which in the usual year's pay would not be offered for similar jobs. The committee also stated that there are not many people who refuse work because of distance from home. But it must be considered normal, e.g. if you are in a position of less time, a job where the person needs to get a place, a job where the person has to move national corners between, possibly with his family, in uncertainty, in situations where it is uncertain how long the job is being offered, how much work is being done, whether it is a very cut-off day, as we heard it would be possible to be offering up here in some type of job where it is offered to come in and work for two hours and then go back to home for two hours and then return for two hours without getting paid for the time and spending more hours in the space of two and three hours. Of course, it takes time to drive between the workplace and the home, apart from the fact that people who have a family to care for and care for their children may not be able to care for their children and homes when the day is over. I think we all need to show a little understanding now. We did not necessarily agree that the tourism service would respond so quickly after that time, this pandemic. And while we would like to get everyone started right away and want to get the tourist service started, of course, it is also the fact that travel services were largely driven by a foreign labor force, by foreign people who came here for a long or shorter time to work. Of course, these people still live here and decide to live longer, but many have gone back. So, of course, it's also that the rules and our common rules on the EEA area allow you to go out and try to find work elsewhere, except in the country you've been living in recently. And this is true whether it is Icelandic citizens or foreign citizens. We, as Icelandic citizens, may also do this, we may also try to leave Iceland and look for jobs somewhere else in Europe, on unemployment records, for up to three months. And when there's a phone call on a Monday and you're looking for a job in another state, possibly during an application procedure in another country where you hope to be chosen, it can be quite difficult to run away from that table to get stuck somewhere else. So it alone does not lead to rejection of your job, yet it will be marked by the employer that you have rejected your job. But circumstances are just so that you are waiting for an answer and have possibly gone through some two tasks or three, some tests, going to job interviews and the like, all at one work, you are already through a lot of filter, and now you are not going to throw it away for some job that might be much less exciting than what you are still applying for. So there are reasons why people do not run when a job is offered, just because of circumstances and circumstances. It's not always the worst. The public is not trying to pig on the system, just not at all. We need to look at this common system of things as support to those who need it, and we are to deal with and associate with this system so that it will come to the very aid of those who need it and try to reduce the suspicion of a marriage mate of everything and anyone who temporarily needs to enjoy this support from our shared system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u74	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's review, and especially one sentence that came at the end, by permission of a president: ▪ The public is not trying to make pigs on the system. I just think it's a red thread that we need to maintain when there's a decrease and suspicion everywhere in the transfer systems, the forwarding systems that people need to rely on. But I'd like to have some. A senator to accompany me on a time trip back to December when it was time. A senator suggested that pay - related fees become part of what sports companies get from a government fund so that we would not be cutting back on our scholarship right away during the first step. That proposal was made here at the Assembly Hall. In fact, they wanted to accept it, not that they needed to accept the proposal, but they thought it could be arranged on a committee somehow. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] I think this is such a good example of how bad it has been to get executives to listen to reasons in these matters. [[The president calls.]] Is it not true today that we have the adjustment that we are missing at 2nd? and possibly through the 3rd. So?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer and this time journey. Yes, there was a great deal going on here in December before the end of the fall, when the one here was trying to bring up more of his dream to members of the council when it came to paying sports companies for pay and contractors. Some senators thought that if a person received a contractor's payment, it would probably be because they wanted a pig on the tax, as if it were a sign of the same difference, but they failed to realize that in order to receive support, people have to be given up their contractors. It must be quite clear that these were paying, so these were unnecessary worries, and the judge's barely remembered, the greater part first made my suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u76	Mr. President. In December, there was a reason. A senator thanked for the adjustment at the same time when the members of the council said that he had voted against her in the belief that the case would return to committee and that the matter was fully agreed. It was a total circus in December, after which the commission proposed a change. There was then a solid agreement to do material things. The senator suggested the pay-related fees. I would have liked it if we had at this point had the same conclusion as regarding the change that was made in 2nd. this bill on student rights for unemployment during recesses. It has been almost full of work for the student movement to write reviews about this point in the past year to the council, and it has never been heard with the government. While we in the government stand have been a fine listener, the members of the World Health Committee were not able to listen, even if this was only the last time for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. Yes, it's a luxury. I was grateful to have pointed to this about the contractors' payment despite the fact that more part had not trusted to support that proposal because she came from a government senator and had to have the baby herself. The majority were willing to make changes in the Committee between 2 and 3rd. Regarding the students, officials have never been willing to do so. We in the United States have suggested several times to provide temporary replacements on unemployment insurance law so that students may, just this summer, just during a summer break, as they have paid to do, have support from employment insurance, but unfortunately, governments have not been prepared to do so. In the words of the Ministry of Social Affairs: We're not going to pay people to do anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u78	Mr. President. I am now designed in a way that when advertised, I would like to be on the scene. I heard why. A senator would've missed me something earlier, so I'd run naturally. I don't know why. The senator heard my speech during the first time, since I considered these matters quite carefully and including both the alleged misconduct, i.e. that people were rejecting jobs they had offered, as well as the fact that employers had quit a group of people and hired back people whose pay was won. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, because her speech was not presented, how she felt about a degree of discrimination in this bill against, for example. those who attend a meeting at KFUK or attend Boy Scout Service, i.e. not to pass the same over these two systems, such as the sports movement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. So I start with the first, and I hope that I have time to answer both, I'm worried that employers are breaking up with people and hiring new ones under cover that they are different jobs or something like that. Most of all, I'm worried, though. A senator, because the State follows this wicked example. We heard that the National Institute of Health in South Africa disbanded all of its cleaning staff to make a contract with the cleaning staff and then have a variety of cleaning contractors, nonexistent contractors, but running from other places once a week to clean up the area. This is especially unfortunate for me by a public institution at a time like this. [[The president calls.]] But I'll answer the second question later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I agree with her that the kingdom should not go ahead with a bad example. I remember that it was not very long ago that a scavenger woman was laid off at the Board of Directors and was to solve a lot of pay problems, the cost of a state fund, which I'm not sure happened. So I take my heart to it. A senator in this regard. Of course, the government should not set up companies and people's rules and then compromise them. It's natural below all the caves. But I missed not being able to hear only of the discrimination that I think is in this bill and also, so that I am adding only to the fact that it was added to what I spoke about at the end of my talk earlier, about loneliness. Then, in particular, I'm talking about monopolys who are in artistic jobs; music, photography, etc. It seems that the monotonous merely had to face all this epidemic in the most difficult way of getting what is right. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u81	Mr. President. In terms of discrimination, sports society, and so on, the KFUM and the Juniors, it was discussed quite a few times before the year - old commission, I remember. It was then discussed that this organization would submit to the system that was built at the highest level. Education minister, that the young communities and such associations go in there. Later when I inquired about this, e.g. Regarding schools, a wonderful school camp that operates in Strulls, they came to the very close door in this regard. There was a major loss of income, but because of the lack of complete closure, there was no support. What the athletes had to endure in their time, and hopefully never again, it was ordered complete closure. There was no participation in the house, but contracts continued for one or two years, some on longer contracts. [[The president calls.]] That's why it was. The Lonely Ones, yes, there's been a totally masquerade situation at that point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u82	President. Hv. A senator, though, considered some of the reasons why people were not even accepting jobs that were being offered them. That was a very good tour of it. For example, at a meeting of the budget board, both ASI and the Group of Travel Committee members carried their comments on funding in which they were listing similar reasons; that perhaps there was someone who would not come back until summer vacation. Some vacations on unemployment may exist, but it is only natural in this situation that people will be going to work in less than a month. There were cases where people were waiting for a previous job, i.e. would have been unemployment reformed and former employers would have claimed that once everything went right by them, the person would come to them. Of course, people are waiting for it. There are cases where people receive invitations for the same job but for a lower tax. There are many reasons why people have been rejecting jobs. [[The president calls.]] But some examples, such as. The summer vacation is drawn up as typical descriptions of what is going on in this situation that are incredibly unfair. [[The president calls.]] We at the council have no perspective on what is really going on. This seems to be true, but very specific examples are being made, and they appear to be typical. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There are a number of reasons why people do not accept the job offered. Only for vacation time, we have to watch the fact, and the example that summer vacations may not be due to the person's summer leave but because of a summer break for young children who are about to close school for the next five weeks, and people have no alternative but to be with the child for the four or five weeks that the school is closed and may not be able to change. Of course, time is over, but I'm going to have a second answer to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u84	President. I'd call this propaganda campaign in a sense, there's a certain example that looks bad on the outside. Someone looking for a job says he wants to finish his summer vacation before he leaves unemployment. It looks bad on the outside, but it's just possible that he has some very good explanations and reasons for that, like why. A senator pulled up. It is important for us here at council and for the public that we get the facts. It has been a little difficult to get some sort of overview of how many actually fail out of unemployment insurance to, for example. the network of rural society, etc. What is the focal point of the film that we are chasing to fix when such negative experiences are always being drawn up?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u85	Mr. President. Yeah, that's the thing with the overview and the review of how these tools have been working. I'm afraid it lacks it completely. This is understandable in a way because we were in such a disaster flood of missions but also completely overly unfortunate because we are extending resources that we do not know exactly how to function. We're creating new options that we don't exactly know how to work, as well as how to make resources and grabs and catalysess and catalyses in the way of a business to lay people off and work on a slightly different basis. It's this thing that hurts so much that we don't have enough observation. I think we'll just be together in the fall of this fall... having a serious effort to investigate how this went for the former government... when we get together in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u86	Mr. President. When I listened to a talk, I gave it to him. I couldn't help but start thinking about the words of Stafford Beer, who said that the role of a system is what the system does. In other words, a good goal can be set up with some sort of goal, but the real goal is a manifestation of what it does. Right away. One senator explained that people would turn down jobs that require that they drive hundreds of miles to get to work and obviously refuse to do so, and I began to think, " What is the goal? ' How is this system serving its function, or is the role of forcing people to work at some sort of local station in Iceland, the living quarters, or is it the goal of improving society's production and efficiency so that everyone can benefit? I can't help but think that the real goal is just to force everyone to show how hard they are. Well, maybe. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u87	Mr. President. I'm so old-fashioned that I kind of have to keep something to do with it all the time. I've never been forced to work because I usually just like to work, and even if it's very difficult and exhausting, I like it. I've been very lucky about it. I think, in spite of all that, it's like that with the majority of people that they want to be functional, that they want something to work. It may not be the dream job, but it is going somewhere or being in this activity, whether at home at the desk or in the shop or anywhere, in a laboratory, to find that purpose somehow. I'm sure there's one of the things that wants to be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u88	Mr. President. I'm not making any noise for this. I agree. I myself feel absolutely restless if I don't have enough work to do and maybe I'm a certain workaholic, and I think most people want exactly what I'm doing. But efficiency is anything but the need to take a job that may not be suitable for education or talent or simply to live. I think that when we're talking about the role of the unemployment insurance system and work in the modern world, we need to watch a little bit of reality that we don't need all of this fiction, especially when it requires that people spend a whole and a half of the days driving between positions in order to do a job that might be distasteful when it could be in a totally beneficial way at home in some of their own terms. So my question is what? A senator is: Isn't the unemployment insurance system a little based on old archeological ideologies that need to be revised in the light of changes in society? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. My answer is yes and no. The employment insurance system is designed to catch those who need it temporarily because they lost their job and by their contributions. That's the purpose of that system. Shall we go into some other version, as I know a group of whales? A senator, Pirantar, has been very busy speaking for, i.e. Some kind of civilian pay? It may well be. That's why I say yes, possibly. But I still think we need to keep this security net aside. I think we need to bring it along.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u90	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that the answers I made were true. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir may have been a good introduction to what I'm going to discuss in connection with this case. I'm going to take care of two things; one of the roles of the work and standards we use for work and how it all connects into the unemployment insurance system, and a few things that show a flaw in how we use the system today, which might have been a reason to correct this bill. I can say with what. paritaprevir Helga brought Helgadóttir that everyone wants to experience themselves useful. Everyone wants to do something useful, both for himself and for society. As a result, the human race in general is rather naturally working, I think. That is something that most people enjoy doing, although not all people may enjoy doing on the same grounds. Some may find it easier to sit and write and make some knowledge while others become agitated if they are not allowed to work with their hands. I say for myself, I'm so little of both. I often get really nervous here at the council because this is not enough physical work for me except maybe running up and down stairs. All of this is true, but we must also realize that society is not as it was before 100, 200, even 500, or 1,000 years ago because it has turned into an enormously technological development and so on. Despite all these changes and advances, however, we still rely on standards that are simple and that were not necessarily right. If so, I may primarily be talking about this timeless estimate of economic growth and unemployment rates. If you look at economic statistics from any country, unemployment levels are always one of the first things mentioned, and countries are simply compared to the level of unemployment, both the lack of realism and then the hide of unemployment, where gray markets or informal markets come into place. I'd like to mean that these two standards are amazingly good to enforce a certain moral standard that is wrong and, on the other hand, to create the image of endless growth, which is not necessarily positive either. It would be much better to measure production potential on the other hand and production or production because the aim of the economy is not just that everyone always works at all times and that we produce as much as possible. If that were the goal, it would be highly unnatural to have something like vacation or vacation or holiday or something like that. We'd just let everybody win all the time. But that is not the goal. Rather, the objective is to ensure an abundance; to ensure sufficient production of food, housing, clothing, everything we need, and to ensure the well - being; to ensure that people are free from disease, have education, have access to knowledge, and something that raises life, makes them interesting and desirable. By using the right standards, such as production power, we may be able to eliminate only the tendency to work for ourselves, and start making more practical and better use of human production and human intelligence, but also the tools and equipment available at any given time, because the production power of production is no more than a measure of how much equipment and housing and people are new to the economy. Keep in mind that a full use of 100% of all available things is not necessarily good because when overexposed tasks that need to be done, even a little work, there will be a set of priorities within the economy that limit the ability to take action and those who are able to do the best they can do. Then there will be pressure for people to take the available tasks in no particular order, regardless of educational qualifications, regardless of what they want, and rather to do just what needs to be done. It's a bit of a valuable force, just everybody up on deck and beginning to shovel, which is good and valid in some limited cases and sometimes inevitable. But when we're talking about developing, technologically advanced 21st century society, we can do better. We see that we can do better in maximizing the production potential at a time, always having it up top. That's what's called parto-income, that there are so many obvious and simple ways to change things, move tools, workers, etc., with the result that everyone makes a profit or at least nobody loses. And as we examine how Icelandic economy compares with other economys, Iceland has been prominent for decades that it has little and poor production compared to many other countries. This low production does not mean that people do little, far from work, but they work very hard, but they do not produce much. The amount produced per hour or on each work unit is small compared to what we could be doing. There may be a number of reasons; there is much structure, much conflict, and a number of rules to follow. It's classic. But we cannot also look at the fact that jobs that are not linked with education are extremely common because they simply get a better salary, e.g. for an airline but in a hospital or a better salary in a travel service than a contractor or whatever? Something moves people to do something where they actually get some kind of loss. I'm not saying people don't have the right to work with what they want. But the nature of the good and powerful economy must be that people can choose and choose things that are both most practical and useful to them and that are also the most beneficial to the economy in general. In this context, when you look at the law on unemployment insurance, both the whole law as it stands today, but also the way it is new, you can't avoid seeing some kind of Protestant ethic, some sort of virtue generation. People don't find themselves busy in society unless they work 80 hours a week, and somehow things start breaking up as people start trying to work better and smarter rather than work more. I fear that the law as it is today will contribute to this indignity, including this. to force people to accept any job offered when they suffer from some cause outside a job market. As a result, I plan to propose a good transition from the wind. The members of Halldóra Mogensen, the Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Helga Vala Helgadóttir will be accepted because of its involvement. reduced to a new court case where an invitation to work should be taken into account as to whether the job experience and education of the relevant candidate are appropriate. It would be one factor, very small, but useful, so that there would be only one particular weakness in the entire economy. I'm not going to just because of lack of time, to talk about the ridiculous idea that people are intent on abusing the system. People who spend a long time on unemployment list are that of an amazing number of different reasons. It may well be that some people are abusing it. But in the big movie, I think it's more beneficial to try to motivate people than to try to track down some guilt that is supposed to be ashamed of some traditional set of standards for how people should schedule their time. Instead, I'm going to talk only about other weaknesses that have become more prominent in the Covid epidemic and everything that has been happening. All of a sudden, there was a massive unemployment, and many companies pulled their sails quite seriously. And now, when the economy is taking over, there is a certain danger that people will take advantage of many who are looking for employment as a way to reduce pay in the community. From the thought of free market, I understand it very well, and really, I would think it was a little strange if it wasn't. However, I would like to emphasize the importance of being hired after such an epidemic and after such rapid unemployment gains, being reasonably seen on the other hand, relying on current collective agreements, not taking the opportunity to move, considerably in some cases, from the employee's paypot to the provided profits. It may look very good for some owners for a short time, but in the long run, I'm pretty sure that this will lead to amputation, dissatisfaction, and even a business will have a more difficult charge. As Henry Ford discovered, there were many more who could buy cars when the workers got a better salary. They play everything together, and of course people will have to have money between their hands in order to make use of the ministry, whatever its nature. Finally, I'm going to mention one defect that has been identified regarding the labour market resources and resources for the company that have been involved with Covid. Recently, many isolates in tourism, which have even run their companies for years, have been in that they are enrolled in the Labour Office and were on part-time or in other measures at the time of the peak, are suddenly being called upon to check on the work here and there, despite their own companies, who have been with their own companies for a very long time, and are even in the starting places about going back to travel or other areas, whatever that may be. I've mainly heard these stories from tourists. I would like to suggest that this be done very carefully because, according to the Labour Department guidelines, to lead people on this journey, compare with what I discussed in the majority of this talk. But it may be only natural for us to look at these are strange and special situations that were designed to produce resources that did not fully fit the design of unemployment reforms. Things were being puzzled together that didn't necessarily fit together. The danger is that small companies, especially tourism and other service sectors, will be harmed, which would actually be difficult to wind off. [[The president calls.]] I suggest we take care of this and be reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He crossed the stage a little wide or a little bit in the speech, and it was very interesting, since we are discussing unemployment insurance and government resources in the wake of Covid. Hv. In this regard or in the variety of economic systems, a member of the body became informed about the economy and the diversity of the individual. What I've been thinking about, just listening to talks and studying, is that we can think of what we're doing at this milestone when we're seeing a better time. The Covid pandemic is off-limits. I give myself that the world will not be the same. How can the senator imagine that we can encourage young people? I've been thinking about young people most, maybe older ones on the way. We're all, let me say, a god type of that, that we're social creatures on the ground, whether we like it or not. How can we expand the variety needed to make this possible for most? Surely we are not just watching, as in this case, some narrow - minded viewpoints such as sports worlds, etc. Then the word comes to my mind. Could the senator imagine the motivation, since the economy was under way in a speech by the senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u92	Mr. President. I think it's both very right and very sensible of it. A senator is assuming that the economy will not be the same after this epidemic. However, I'm going to argue that in this epidemic, nothing happened that had not happened anyway but that the process just speeded up considerably. Suddenly, much more were attending telecommunications around the world, location became important to many sectors, and opportunities for flexible work environments and such factors were opened up. Right away. A senator speaks of motivation, I think the motivation is there. Each individual wants to benefit in his own community and in his own life, both for himself and for his community. I don't think it's ever changed, people want to work, people want to work hard. But I fear, and it may have been in my speech that a certain frame has been developed around a Lutheran work ethic that does not develop as fast and is not as flexible as the standards of young people today and even people who are 15 in middle age like I myself who want flexible forms and who want to have more chance of acting in harmony with their motivation, education, and knowledge. The fact that this is so inflexible is causing damage and will cause more and more harm until the Council decides to clean up and revise this. Just to answer in a simple way, I don't think it's a lack of motivation. The whales are there, but the motivations of society are one place while the motivations of the law are different and worse, contradicting them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u93	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I absolutely agree that this pandemic has speeded - well put it - a process such as. in telecommunications and telecommunications and that technology. We know for ourselves here at the council that we have been able to meet at meetings without getting together by being at a telecommunications meeting. You can see that it will change on a global scale just by trips and things like that, we can just say, "You don't need to find out a trip to foreign countries, predators, and so on, in the streets." But what I might also be wondering about when I talk about this opportunity that is now because of the changed times - we can call it a turning point, we're dealing with the strength and unemployment benefits to a team member - is that I have the feeling and believe that there is too little social resources and more of isolated resources. That's why I mentioned that we are social creatures, whether we like it or not, and the tendency to isolate ourselves is too rich for many of us. These are incentives to have more social resources and to maintain them, which can motivate people to get together more and even to compete with one another, or whatever their situation may be. What I would have wanted to see in this world, which is changing a bit, is that we maintain these social resources, social factors that promote social development. That's what I'm looking at.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u94	Mr. President. I think I understand what I'm doing. A senator is leaving, and I agree to some extent. But again, I'm going to get to move the goalposts. Like family life and just a person's life have been set up lately, I don't know how long, but at least for a considerable amount of time a person's time is spent in a third of a day's sleep, a year goes to work, and then there's a third that's a vacation, except that's all the time to eat and clean up, and to take care of everything that's not exactly work or sleep. As a result, it has become a culture that large amounts of social life occur at the workplace. It's just a good thing to do, but it may not be expected that some may not really like their workmates, some might want to have a social life elsewhere, in another context. One of the things that happens when the production in society becomes so intense and so happy is that we have the chance of shortening the workweek, making more room for people to be drawn to association, and just taking care of this social aspect, which I agree with. A senator about, in a different way, but absolutely only in his work or in his family. We see many examples of this when people have this increased flexibility and leisure time, which is more active in social activities, are more active in art, is more active in countless other fields - not necessarily in areas where they are paid, but life may be about not just money for everyone, but something that gives people something else that exactly encourages this social activity than it does for them. A senator correctly points to its importance. I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u95	V.E.G. President. I was now trying to keep threads in that speech. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy went through a wide field. But because I'm trying to understand everything that came out there, what the Senator's real opinion is, and what he was trying to say, I want to ask him: Can you understand the speech so that the senator would think that there should be a free choice for who should be free and if he went to work or work, would be in a labour market, it would be a free choice, and the person who wouldn't choose it would then have the right to be made from an unemployable insurance fund? This is a key question. We're talking about a fund that we taxpayers all pay to make sure that all, including those who lose their jobs or who don't work, have some means of living. The question is, does the senator think so, because I heard a speech spoken by a member of Porta in this way some days ago, that there was even something valuable in the fact that men would just be able to do and do something else? Is the senator of that sort? Is it so that people should be selective about whether they are going to get a job or not and if they decide not to go to a job or not in a job market, they should still be able to make money from an employment insurance fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u96	Mr. President. I think it's a question. The senator is the right question about the wrong thing. I'll try to speak clearly. It is very difficult to criticize the overall cycle of unemployment insurance during a 15 - minute talk, especially trying to get something else in the way. But the point I was trying to make in the talk is that it is inseparably difficult to force people to accept the job offered. This is simply unacceptable. It is less practical for society, for the entire economy but for giving people a little more freedom. I happen to be in favor of free markets. I'm a bit on the line that if people don't think they have to win, then don't force them to. But people will most likely have to work at some point, if not directly at that indirect point, i.e. if not because they want to win them because they just run out of money. Clearly, many changes have occurred in the community in recent years, making the production of the entire economy much greater than it was 50 or 100 years ago. We are not yet on the point that no one has to work to eat. We can't say 100%: "Let's give it all free." On the other hand, I agree with the idea of experimenting to reduce everyone's need for work on an equal scale with some basic development or similar. I am not convinced that we have come to the point where it works for everyone and for the entire economy. But the short - term workweek and such events have become timely, experimenting on these events. [[The president calls.]] Is it fit in with the current organization of employment insurance? The answer is no. We need to rethink all of this, and that was the point of my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u97	V.E.G. President. Maybe I'm a little closer. But, hey. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy says not to force anyone to work, if I heard the right thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u98	Do you want to force people to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u99	- No, I'm not trying to force anyone to do anything. The question, though, is: Is anyone unable to win but able, then, the right to obtain money from taxpayers? That may be the difference between us. I realize that people have different circumstances. I probably know people best that there are extraordinary different circumstances in people's lives. I can quite understand that there are times when people on unemployment can't accept the work that might be offered. I believe that the system should take into account if there are issues involved. I'm not giving you any trouble there. But I'm just thinking about this thinking, that people in general think of it as a default thing for taxpayers or society to support people who just don't want to work, want to do something else about time. I can totally understand that people want to do something else in their time, but they have to make some money from it, not that taxpayers or society can see it through. I think that thought is generally dangerous. I feel like I've had more to think about now than before, maybe because Pirats exist. But I'm saying that I'm worried about the thought, that it's very harmful. I always think that if people don't feel that they're suggesting something, creating something, paying some taxes, and being part of the community, they're going to get hurt.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u100	Mr. President. I appreciate it. A senator blames the Pirates for the development of the economy, which has led to our being a mad and rich nation. I'm not sure we have the right to that title, though, because we haven't yet been allowed to be in the government. But we'll see. The goal of the economy is not for all to win at all times. The aim of the economy is not to produce as much as possible. It may be that it is the objective of certain politicians, but that is not the goal of the economy. The aim of the economy is for all to live well, have plenty of time, and enjoy adequate physical and mental well - being so that they can do what they want with their lives. [[Up front.]] Keep in mind that the economy is all the people and everything the people do. The problem I'm trying to describe is not that some people are somehow cheating on the system or trying to get their own forwards without doing anything. There may be some who do, and some are actually at work. Some are tattooed and are paid for. It is well known at several work sites, e.g. This one. But that's not the problem I'm trying to deal with. The problem I'm trying to deal with is: We know there's overproduction of all kinds of things in this community. We know people are working too hard. We also know that it is better and more practical for the overall economy if people do things that they can and can do and prefer to work on rather than have to take a job just to tickle in some form of the Protestant trade. [[The president calls.]] And we have to stop maintaining that system because that system is beginning to damage our community, our economy and, by the way, our planet.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u101	A respectable president. This has been a pleasant, useful and meaningful discussion here. It's not quite a simple matter. It may have been reasonable to assume that it is very common and almost reasonable for jobseekers to cancel their job and to prefer rather than be on unemployment. Far from it! As noted in a talk earlier before that day. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir is less than 2% of those who refuse to work. As people have been doing here, there are many reasons, usually for normal reasons and usually temporary reasons. The other is so different that such a general trend is that we are on our way, society, and today's society are on the move toward what is sometimes called the disaster system, especially in young people who have not yet entered into family ties. It is temporarily involved in some particular work, often in the service sectors, and it is often associated with the employee and the employer, freer than in standard companies. Both are related duties, and the rights of my employees are the same. This is, I think, one of the major labor movement projects and the workforce. One of the major tasks that await them is to ensure these rights, ensuring that the right of the worker does not crash to the level of the industrial revolution or before the labor movement became a force in the community that has developed our communities, especially our unions here in northern Europe, in this way that pay people have a wide range of important rights and public security services, although there are certainly things to be done better. I just wanted to make this right before you go any further. The other thing is, again, that it is not new, and it is not the invention of Porita, as if even could have thought here by reason of a word. paritaprevir Empresse Brynjar of Níelsson, that there are people who don't want to participate in traditional wages, but who want to spend their time in art, gardening, planting, or whatever people want to do in order to enrich their lives and others, now or just to lie down and do nothing. There are also examples of this in human history, and did not appear to have a Pirata institution, I think it is safe to say. We've always had people who think they're supposed to be on purchases to be real. In fact, some people have been successful in convincing others of their need. These have often resulted in significant values and spiritual accomplishments. It may be reasoned that Halldór Laxness, our leading writer in the last century, was a sloth who never bothered to work hard at heart, and I think some people viewed him as a land wreck which would be a burden on the taxpayers. But in the end, I think that most of us agree that he has accomplished much and much in his life and that he has been a very hardworking man. After all, he said that a writer would only have one good quality, and I would ask a president for a curse on the language, but that would be having a good ass, i.e. that a writer would need to be a good writer. This is a fine, reasonable subject, and it is normal to extend. It is only natural to extend this option. However, I must mention in this hearing that I believe that it is very unfortunate that the proposal has not been made from the memory of a member of the health committee, the Helga Vagu Helgadóttir, the Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson and Mogensen Mogesen, to suggest that this bill be changed to that, as stated in the committee's section of the memory, by the modification proposal, to react to the anticipated professional problems of students in the coming summer. It also says that it is clear that a number of students will be without employment during the summertime, thus becoming one of the income they would otherwise have relied on. Hence, the smaller item suggested that students be granted the right to unemployment during the summer. In this regard, the minority pointed out that up to 70% of students make part - time living under the Eurostdent survey, and I believe that the world's industry is as much as it has evolved into being here. It is almost reasonable to conclude that students have some work along this study to support themselves. And it goes on to say that such work along study will soon or later take the lead in the study. The quality of study, the concentration of study, can be affected by the health of students because of intense stress. It would be quite normal for society to develop an organization that would ensure that students could actually live and support themselves from student loans and that loans would be better. In this context, it is noted that in the past ten years, students who charge student loans have decreased by half. Of course, this is usually because there is no shortage of student loans. At the labour market, students contribute to the unemployment insurance system, but they still do not enjoy the rights of the system. It tells itself that it is unrighteous, that is discrimination, and that is unacceptable to those who live with it. This high work along the course of study has also affected students specifically during their viral years because they have been employed by students and have usually been in the service sector. These are restaurants, boarding rooms, and so on. These are tasks that are often linked to tourism in one way or another, and they have, of course, collapsed. So it is a great deal of justice, and it would certainly have been better if the General had relied on him to accept this matter. A student board has been very diligent in calling the Senate's attention to its demands. The study Council's secret is simple, as the governance in this case says. It is about, as it says, that a working student can get the right that he or she has earned from the payment of a job insurance bill, as shown in my speech, according to Article 3. the law of insurance paid by the remunerationpayers, and that they can apply this to other working people as well as without being discriminated against for their studies. Mr. President. It may not be easy for young people to want to live in the country in time. Once they have established their families and have their own children and intend to have a place in a job market and plan to create a life, they may not necessarily need to be here. Then it is important that as a community, we do well with our students, for this will result in many restorations, both in joyful times and even in catatonic moments and in good things, if not just in person years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant and pleasant speech. It was interesting to hear the senator describe this important part of our community, that there are some who take the time to think, lie lazy, and think. I'm not going deep into conversation with why. A senator on art, culture, and writers. He's got quite a sledgehammer there than the one here. I must say, however, that I agree with the senator that it is very important for each nation to have a powerful cultural and artistic life, and that is certainly for us. I'd also like to say that there is, in fact, a measure of shortsightedness, I think, that governments don't see the best way to expand this case that we're dealing with here. This is being shortsighted because we are talking about students, and we are talking about a group of members, a youth - people, who are doing a good job. At the same time, it is important for us to realize that if we let people think and even lie lazy, such a society would not be very sustainable if everyone did. However, as the senator noted, there must be some incentives for people to pursue education. Education is work. As a result, we, many of us, feel that it is normal for these people to have a supporting network during their studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists and joins him in a complete heart. True, motivation may be necessary, but in some ways it may be motivated by creative solutions and creative solutions that can be useful even to all, well, they can, for example. Be lazy. Because I now mentioned Halldór Laxness earlier, the writer, I remember that when he was a boy, he was supposed to shovel the fool if he invented some kind of machine, or did an attempt to invent some kind of machine, which took it quite well off of him. It's been too long since I read it, so I remember exactly how that machine worked, but it's not the main thing in itself how it worked or if it worked, but the other thing was lazine, which was really his motivation and force for inventions, i.e. He refused to shovel and then tried to invent something that would take away his troubles. That's what I think is an incentive for countless inventions in the last century and that's still the case. I think it's very important that there's a balance between intelligence and hand work again. I am not one of those who oppose the practice of physical work, and I am not recommending that students work in the summer. But I do have doubts about this ongoing work by studying.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u104	V.E.G. President. Like what? A senator I thank for the answer will make it clear that laziness can be an incentive for various innovations, and I will not talk about if it is to ease your life in any way or to help you with your work. In fact, I think in that case as a dog. A senator also testifies to some kind of inner creation that makes man in this case the opportunity to create something, to make something easier. But what do I know? But how important it is when we discuss students and their right to improve or to guarantee futures, regardless of what we now call them, that there is a particular possibility for students to work with school, i.e. Those who can and will. There is also a social aspect of coming to work and living, an incentive to create some valuables by going to work and seeing how it provides opportunities to do something else. But it is, of course, difficult when the work is starting to suffer because we are encouraging people to learn that they can create something, create something, and continue to take our community into the new century and the next time. That's what we want to do. We must not have our own systems or environment, so the concern of those who want to learn how to support themselves, whether they temporarily lose their jobs while they are studying or how they are, will lead to less education than they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u105	A respectable president. I'll take my mind off it as a matter of course. A senator says. Admittedly, it is beneficial for students to change their environment, work in an environment in which they are not all equal, even go and live where they normally live, and test themselves in some other way. They'll learn to do the same. Not only do they learn a certain type of work and a certain type of work, they also learn the community in which they live, they find themselves in touch with society, and they find themselves in connection with other people. That's why work is good and it's good to find yourself in association with other people. Again, it is another matter that constant study activity can take on the study in a way that I was trying to describe in my speech, and I think it is a vital task to try to cope with this. I believe that there is an abnormally high proportion of students who do some type of work by studying, and I'm not sure that the work that is often done in some of the services at some restaurants and so on the streets is necessarily the one that is most demanding or developing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u106	Mr. President. I'd like to keep talking about the status of students, who had a good time. A senator mentioned in his talk and responded. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson because the Icelandic students are in a different position than their European colleagues. This was called the Eurostudent survey, which reveals that 70% of students rely on a job with a study to support themselves because they are not able to support themselves because the maintenance systems of student loans. There is a much higher proportion than in any other country, but there are students in the United States who are also older. The proportion of students under 25 years of age is the second largest in Iceland of all European countries involved in Eurostdent. Icelandic students are running a little longer through the university, including because the work takes away the time, energy, and concentration that might otherwise take up the study. So to ensure a decent advantage through the public forwarding system is a goal in itself, a goal that has not been maintained, as we, who followed the bill of the Scholars' Education, calculated that it would set up a completely different place from it today. They have just increased the basic progress of students temporarily by 6% because of Covid, there is no permanent increase in basics needed, nor is the fact that the student loan system assumes that students earn a full income three months a year because they pay student loans for nine months a year. Therefore, I would like to ask the senator if he had any explanation for the indifference shown by the management sector to the repeated and simple application of the safety network that is associated with unemployment insurance during recesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u107	A respectable president. In itself, I do not have an explanation for the way the government is thinking. In fact, I think those who rule the country may be, not of my generation, but of something younger. However, people of my generation have a romantic view of these things. I was used to getting used to it, as I was in my studies, because in the summer, you even went to some land, and you were doing construction work here and there, fishing, doing all kinds of work, and doing it was good. A man made a lot of money on this, and then a man could live through this a little bit in the winter. That time is long past, like a dog. A senator was doing fine here earlier. This is an unusual and confusing percentage of students who need to work with the study, who need to work continuously with the much work involved, and in general, it can be said that this is all too much trouble. Being a student in Iceland is too much trouble. There is far too much trouble with being young in Iceland, whether it's the educational system we're talking about, or just the home environment we're not even going to discuss. Shall we talk about the dinner? Everywhere you look at the standard of young people in Iceland, it's too much trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u108	Mr. President. It is this romantic vision mentioned by the senator that I think may be the problem, when the people who have machines on this subject may have some idea that it's okay just to be a student. The soothing student is somehow a romantic movie that people envision, possibly because all these systems were involved. A senator mentions our support systems in our community only in a different way when these non - Witness people went through university studies. I don't know. But as it says in the title of the School of the University of Iceland, quite well. A senator pointed to it, the requirement is so simple, and it is not about some bites. The concept of the board looks like there's some sort of alemus going on here. It is only about the fact that students at a job market who lose that job can pick up unemployment in school breaks when they don't borrow loans, just on the job insurance paid by the person in common funds. They just want out of their savings what they've been depositing. And because the student council has almost half a job writing reviews on this same detail, it is worth saying that they have built their stand very well, have made one study after another in their own group. In the end, one student in a national language reported that a quarter of them struggle with great or very much financial hardship. They say there is power, but there is no great power in people when they cannot afford to feed and dress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u109	A respectable president. This is the seventh review of the Council on this matter. They just get better and better, these reviews from them. It may be that some of this is some romance of being underneath a pole somewhere, that has a knife and spoon, and reading philosophy and medicine, I don't know. All I know is that this system is saluting rich people and biting down on poor people. The credit fund of so - called students in England was a conflict of the labor movement. It was a fight between the social calendars and the education of Gylfi, the son of Gíslason. It was a great victory and a great revolutionary force for Icelandic society. Because at the time, there was, in effect, a force that enabled people from less material households to break into education, and it really matters in the lives of many families. This whole New World Society for a while. But now we've come back to the same place. Because I was here talking about the situation being like the industrial revolution in dealing with earners and professional drivers, it has also become that way, or is developing into such a process, that it is only young people who have a powerful financial sponsor in parents or other means of establishing a home, which is now just a basic need. Can establish a home, and be educated in a decent land, and a people for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u110	President. I've got this issue in a much larger context. This is about unemployment insurance and the time of the crown virus. Let's just start with the basics. We've been getting reviews, e.g. from the Group of Tourism and ASI, to the budget board on budgets for the financial resources involved in this case. There are reviews that suggest that people are cheating on the system. It paints unique examples, but it does not even try to explain how far these examples are, how widely they are. But somehow it is tried to make it sound as though it were common, and it applies to much more people than it is. It's about perspective on the problem. In this matter, we also have no perspective on the problem after all. What was the purpose of these changes, and with what result? That's where I get something into this other possibility, and it's not necessarily something that's appropriate right now, but there's something we need to consider in the future. During speech and answers, there was a reason. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir on the unemployment system that temporarily grabs people until they can get their feet in a new job or in a new function, as they have often been said. The problem may be that the unemployment reform system and the insurance system are not really temporary. We're talking year after year. That is an extremely long time to recover from the benefits. The kind of system we are currently using is going to be estimated relatively quickly over the years, with increased self - efficiency that will affect the future labour market. It is interesting in the discussion about students, as was also discussed here. Autoimprovement, the future self - efficiency community, nothing so far distant, will work in a way that the basic necessities of life will reach no cost to production. I mean, mostly handwork, man's time. There will not be people who will produce the necessities we will need to have in ourselves and on, roof over our heads, food and clothing, and anything left over to keep them good and to choose different interests and things like that. The need is on the way to free of charge, and Pirata's party comes a little bit from there, for example. The permafrost. From there, Martys get a little bit in the politics, where they had problems with the writer's condition, where, suddenly, an endless copy of digital paperwork could be created. First, there was no need to create a new copy. Why, then, did people have to pay so much for it? There are a number of complications in that context. Suddenly, an infinite resource came into existence, practitiously speaking. We've never really had to deal with an infinite resource in human society. It changes how we approach the economy, how we approach the need to live on this earth, and what it means exactly for the unemployment insurance system because, if all the necessary things are free of charge anyway, because they are automatically manufactured, copied in a sense by machines, and no hands come near, what do people need money? Certainly it is, then, because of all the other things that people do in leisure activities, social activity, etc. where the human hand comes close. But here's where the trend begins. Autoindustry is taking a huge leap on a huge number of areas in food production, in energy production, in a 3D printing form; a house has actually become printed, a large swing will just show up and rise up in some way. This should make us think about how the unemployment insurance system should develop. We'll find some resources, like, e.g. That's a very funny question. We find resources like government resources now, starting jobs, which may be a bit complicated. There we find resources like turning to rural society and other parties to obtain jobs and ask what they have for people to do, in order to educate themselves in a new field. That's where we should think only of these education and innovations into their entire unemployment insurance system. Of course, this is where we are dealing with sports companies in particular, and what the arrangement is, and it works just differently. We want to keep this operation going, but in the larger context, these factors need to fit together. In an environment where it costs nothing to need--and when I say nothing, I mean almost nothing; it is, of course, some cost of substance, but it goes down, that's where I refer, e.g. In my conjugal proposal for carnivores, where one meat cell is multiplied and can feed many, we are talking about Bible damage on food, really. The cost of it is minimal, based on the production cost for both plants and animals that we see today, not just today, but will be in the immediate future. I expect to experience it myself, such a community. It matters when we approach the exact unemployment insurance issues, such as this case, that we should consider if it is not time to think things through. Is it two years, because people are looking for a job, something that comes to work for the future, or do we need to start thinking things differently? Do we have to operate things like VICH more? Do we need to further activate the education system? Do we need to activate the innovation process more for unemployed? New creation companies that are starting can, for example, start up. people don't hire unemployment records. They haven't been in business long enough, so they're not eligible to get some of the unemployment records, which is very strange because you might want to look for someone who's ready to go new, someone who's been on unemployment for a year and to try new things, in cooperation with the actual education system. In cooperation with the sector we have seen, e.g. If, I think, a lot more interesting things can be done with unemployment insurance. This will only fit into MMT's ideologies, by permission of President, the Mothern Internationalary Theory, which deals with employment insurance, certain transfers of the government that, in fact, always have jobs available, usually in some kind of care or something like that. But it only falls into the criticism that changes in the direction of the memory of the part, from Halldóra Mogensen, the Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson and Helga Vala Helgadóttir, are about, that the job should also be looked to as to whether it is suitable for professional experience and education. Something like insurance may not necessarily have an appropriate connection with job experience and the education of the person who would be involved in the job insurance. With innovation, it would be possible to obtain education and job experience into a new field and try to create something new. You see, there is a great deal of intersecting now, in science, for example, where scientists from different scientific fields learn much more from other sources and use similar methods. When they consider different subjects by similar methods as they meet, they may come to appreciate evolution in the ways they are using them to benefit themselves and will benefit in another field of science on another subject, too, because the methodology that is similar to that. It also enables people to infiltrate innovation, which has job experience and education into a field that is not directly relevant to job experience and education, in a novelistic sense. It's a huge opportunity, I think, these days and in the years to change something in this field, not just to change it, but because it's necessary to do it for the future because of self - efficiency in society that will completely change the conditions that people have to put into themselves and on. Why would you, e.g. I'll pay you 200 bucks. before milking when the production may be automatic, not necessarily from a cow, but directly from an artificially udder or something like that, as the cost of production is much lower and does not involve any use in animals. We can really, the human being as such, leave nature anywhere but exactly where we live. There will be a very interesting future for both the sustainable and our footprints on this earth that we share with various other forms of life, the footsteps that have gone on very larger in recent decades, and if we do nothing about it, we will appear in a very dark form to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For this, the Björn of the Leví of Gunnarsson was a thought - provoking talk. Of course, it would be a reason to ask him about things and a lot, especially his vision of the future he tore up here. But in this first round, I would like to see if there is anything I can do about it. For example, when it comes to sports and youth activities, this bill is tied to the sports movement. Of course, it is of utmost importance, and how happy it is that she enjoys the understanding of the bill! But there is another type of youth activity that is organized and that is just as important, and there are many who do not find themselves in the field sports in their youth and look for resistance to their power. There's a very careful review from KFUM and KFUK showing that their activities, which I intend to describe as very important, fall outside the law. 155/2020. They also point out that the Boy Scouts fall outside, and there probably are others. So I'm interested in hearing some attitude. A senator in this subject and how he sees this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u112	President. The government buys services by a lot of sources, an overview of that is at the end of the financial follow-up, full of different stakes. In the cases below which there are comparable factors and in the case of sports communities, the same views should definitely apply. If the State has made a service deal with KFUM and KFUK or Boy Scouts or anything like it, these views must apply to that function in exactly the same way, you would think if you were going to take care of some kind of equality. Otherwise, governments would be catching out some of their agreements in excess of others, even though the comparison between them is almost zero. Perhaps there is some grammatical evidence that a variety of types of service or something like that may explain that it does not work. But I haven't seen a discussion about it or an analysis of whether this difference exists or not when it's presented. It is always suggested in such a hurry, and actually the extension too, that we will never have time to do so thoroughly over the overall picture of the initials that have been caused by Covid. What such things are bad, especially if we are looking to the issues of equality, such as why. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u113	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I would especially like to thank him for mentioning the rationale at the end of his reply. It says that there is an organization that has a formal agreement with the Ministry of Education and Culture, as it is now, in the name of sports and youth service. What is so clear in this review of KFUM and KFUK is that this is a marked list of these organizations. As one puts it, no undefined catacombings are being opened, even if they were adrift under these laws, but I give the sense of equality, such as the ocean. A senator makes such an outstanding point. I know why. A senator is on a budget board and is alert to the fact that financial matters are being handled wisely, and this statement that KFUM and KFUK are within their own sense of reason. But there was something else that I wanted to say to you. A senator, and that is what he stepped aside to a little lengthy and enjoyable in his talk, i.e. the much changes expected in the job environment through the automatic development resulting from technicalisation. Internationalization also transports work from country to country and thus from continent to continent. Hv. A senator rightly mentioned the need to be alert to this trend, even when plotting the future of the unemployment system is laid down. I especially want to thank him for that and would be interested in his viewpoint a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u114	Mr. President. It seems to me that the KFUM and KFUK tip is very important under the circumstances, so I have nothing more to say and that people just keep telling me about it. Of course, when the government buys services in some way, it is always a matter of reviewing what we get out of the ministry, the cost, and the like. When it comes to choosing the sports movement, which is likely with a comparable contract for a particular social service, other people - who may not fully perform comparable services because it is not a sports job but is comparable in purchases and sales for public services - it is easy to raise their hands and say, " But what about us? ' Don't worry about it. My vision of the future is a logical result of thinking about self - driving cars. Then I thought, " What about self - defeating boats that go out to the streets and catch the fish, throw out fishing gears, and just bring them back on their own? ' Why don't we just send the small self-defeated submarines to raise the right sizes of fish and stuff? Then you started thinking, "No, wait, I'm sorry, why don't you just grow the fish and leave the fish in the water?" Then you get one step forward and you get to what it means in a larger context when you stop catching fish because there's no need for that, etc. In any case, falling into that well is a very interesting measure of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u115	A respectable president. Yes, self - exhausted cars and self - triumphing boats, at least not self - centered because there were many things I enjoyed hearing. A senator will accompany you. This speech was thoughtless in many ways. Perhaps, in time, and if hopes go along, and this will be the best world in the world, we will not necessarily be partners with jobseekers and employers or professional drivers, it won't be that kind of relative, but maybe we'll split into three groups; we'll be disabled, we'll be overactive, and we'll be active. And hopefully most of us are active in some way, thus having active contact with one another, paying one another's streets, and paying each other for the things we bring down to one another. This is, I imagine, some kind of opium that's behind it as a boy. A senator was saying. Or what? I'd like to think about it from what happened. Senator. I'd like to pray. A senator to fly only.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u116	A respectable president. My favorite stories around this are, for example, my favorite stories. Regarding the monks who protested Gutenberg's Gutenberg machine, they said: "We will lose our jobs, to write books. Do we want to go back to the time when books were handwritten with monks? No. There were longshoremen who went to strike when the containers came and got it out of being placed on the pier. They removed the container and put it in the nearest container, which was then placed in a truck and drove away. It went on for a couple of years, reminds me of the story saying, until everyone saw it was cursed bullshit. Of course, the container was put directly in the truck and drove away. These are examples of exposés that are always happening faster and faster. Yes, there will always be new jobs, as people say, but a waiting period of new activity is always getting shorter. I see, for example. so that after nothing is necessarily so intense a long time, if you just go to power growth, you'll be artificially intelligent as novels, draw up whole movies, or make music, and that more of the material that the human being will be associated with will be made up of some sort of artificial intelligence. All the innovations that man will move into that process will learn tremendously quickly, and this will be reflected in the actions produced by such technology. I don't know if this is gonna be flying before what's happened. A senator who is also a writer. But this may make him think only of where, at any rate, I think that we are bound to be heading.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and now is not quite sure that here he drew up the positive exit I was hoping for. Rather, it was more of a prosthesis because the defect with artificial intelligence is the identity of an artificial intelligence. She's not unpredictable, she's not impulsive, and she's not human. Although it can be implanted with a variety of human traits, it will not be human. There's kind of two things I want to ask you. A senator who is naturally difficult to meditate on in such a short period of time. That is, on the one hand, what I think is the big thing and how we do it to share the quality with automation. I think it may be our major project to distribute the goods right between the human race, but it will not just fall into the tail of a few giant corporations. However, whether he believes that all changes -- I've heard them before. A senator recites these monks, and I have doubts about them, and I think they are more pronounced - but they believe. A senator's making all these changes is progress?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u118	A respectable president. A few questions. If we do not know the difference between the works of artificial intelligence and human activity, what then? If a tree falls into a forest and nobody is near, is it not sound? Fake intelligence can be unpredictable, it can be impulsive. True, it is not human, but it is learned from man's works. Children learn from human works. If they do not learn from human works, are they not human? It may get a little too far into the depression. The difference is, if we don't know the difference, if we can't point out a job and say, "It was a computer that wrote it or there was a man who wrote it, we have to ask: Is there a difference? Does it matter whether it is artificially intelligent or human? Spreading the quality into a self - efficient environment will be the biggest project in the future, definitely. This is an opportunity to create the greatest inexorably in the history of the earth, in human history. It will be very easy to collect wealth on a scale that we have never seen before. So, yes, this is going to be the biggest project. I believe that the access to developing things automatically must be open, open, and accessible to everyone, in fact, being able to create their own things automatically. Are all changes? Some changes are inevitable. Then we will always have to wrestle with where these pits are. We must know how to avoid them. [[The president calls.]] Surely all changes can be used for good and for bad, and we need to be careful that they are not for evil. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u119	Mr. President. There's been an interesting discussion on this subject. It has to do with extending the time of one of the government's companies, changing the unemployment insurance law, and the payment of athletes on pay expenses and contractors during the Korean epidemic. This is part of the crew and we have supported most of them, but it cannot be said of the government that it has supported a case presented to us in the media, good cases, changes, financials, etc. All of this has been rejected by the government groups at the same time as they have called for cooperation in action and solidarity in action due to the virus epidemic. There is, in fact, one flaw in this law that was approved in December, and this is an extension of discrimination. As mentioned in the articles, this applies only to sports societies, not to youth communities. I made comments when this bill was being decommissioned at the council and was well aware of what might happen. ... ina reviewsfrom the U.S.A.S.A. and KFUK. So I told them that the bill is sending bad messages when it comes to our childhood society, a youth service in the country, because it's being excluded. Sources of government funds are limited to athletes in Iceland's National Sports and Olympics. The challenges the athletes have faced as a result of their crown - virus epidemic were being met, understandable. There was work to be maintained and pay paid, etc. but at the same time, no sports work was allowed. However, this was the case with discrimination associates such as KFUM and KFUK, who maintain a very important work. It is very bad when governments send out this message, that sports activities are more important than youth and the work in the Boy Scouts and Christian youth service, etc. It is a bad message when governments are drawing this important activity into some sort of dilacy, so to speak. This was pointed to in the Central Party here when the bill was discussed at the time, but there were no more listeners than many other things, unfortunately, when the government is involved. Consider, for example. only the schools. The school is an institution designed to make as many children as possible for qualified adults to carry out future assignments. Within school there is also a vacation job, and when school day ends, children go to other forms of social activity, etc., everything good and valid, but school is far from the only influence in the daily lives of students. The time students spend outside school is far more than their weekly hours in school, and research has shown that children's activities are important for the development and success of students in both school and career. Social and leisure activities are organized and handled by responsible parties. They are thought to have positive and upbuilding effects, and may, for example, be expected to have such positive and upbuilding effects. decrease the likelihood of alcohol and drug abuse in adolescents or other risk factors. Much of the adolescent self - image is designed through their participation in social and leisure activities and sports and other organized leisure activities in the management of responsible people there to build up and provide positive inspiration that is very important. Since then, research has shown that this has a positive effect on children so that they are less affected by the cracks of drug abuse. I referred to YES and KFUK because they sent in a very good review, stressing that their youth service receives the strength of the sports movement by these laws. They stress that there is discrimination here, and here is a chance to correct them, and I agree with it. I'm going to hope the government only listens, she didn't listen in December when we in the Central Party pointed this out here. I know the youth service of KFUM and KFUK in Iceland. In particular, money is focused on Christian activity among high school youths. Christian youth service is important for young ones who attend it at any given time. The kids come to KFUK because they want to share in what happens there and accept the message that has been delivered and then be in fun company. It takes to carry out this work, to have employees and facilities, and all of this costs. Many Icelanders confess pedestrianism and refer to the value of belief in child years. The belief from their childhood lives in them, but it is not defined as the meaning of such faith in adulthood. Yet, it does matter that it is personal. Foreign studies have examined what has shaped the faith or atheism of adults. The results have been that a person is far more likely to look to the values he developed during his childhood. There is a need for meaningful social activity, in which the child as a whole, body, and soul is activated. Social workers need to meet the needs of young ones, and they do not have social work for them. They simply do not attend the job. How important it is, then, to know the social issues of young people in order to understand what shapes social situations and to create social activities that meet their needs. THE social activities of KFUK appeal to many young people today, and Christian youth work is indeed right, as is another social activity. It is always true that different groups are reaching out for different activities, and these groups are to be paid off, and the Ministry of Education has made a deal with a number of parties in this regard, which is good. Youths who attend weekly or more organized activities are better off than those who do not attend such activities. Teenagers in group sports have a better self-esteem and a better sense of identity and anxiety and depression symptoms. It'll even come. ... in a master-level study at the University of Iceland, by Sjöfn Þórarinsdóttir, an interesting study. There is no difference between the sexes among youths who pursue one or two types of organized activities weekly or more often. Boys are more likely than girls to participate in team sports and do them more often. However, girls share in the Christian youth service more fully. The circumstances of young people in Iceland are many, and there are many factors that shape and influence. The church is absent in the lives of most youths the following year. Thus, it has little effect on shape during the years when youths take the infant religion so - called for reevaluation and endeavor to shape their own beliefs and beliefs. With rap music in our ears, we may quickly find that there is little in common between the church and the teenage group. The harassment that young people face seems endless, music, movies, TV, videos on the phone, computers, social media, peers, schools, social centers, sports, etc. Then you ask yourself, " Is the church and Christian youth work out in all of this? Those taking the lead in youth must always ask themselves, " How is it best to meet teenagers during the most important years of youth? ' Adolescents are not a special group or a target group required to treat in a specific or specific way. Youths are people who must be taken primarily seriously and with respect. They should be viewed not only as a group but as individuals who, like others, need companionship, compassion, and love. Young ones need to feel recognized, trusted, and respected. They need to be listened to and loved. Leaders in youth are therefore very important and should not be left out in this bill. Maybe that's the point I was going to come to, when I've traced here only the youth service of KFUM and KFUK and the church. That is why, as the review of KFUM and KFUK makes it so sad that these laws are indiscriminate in the way this has been reported. It is very important to have a wide range of well - organized sports and youth activities, and that is very common in many parts of the country. Truly, those who do that work deserve praise. Many are volunteer workers, but such work cannot be done exclusively for volunteer work. Since then, the financial foundation has been broken in the epidemic, and this is why it is being met by the laws being extended. On the other hand, we have forgotten not to find all our children in sports; we must not forget that. Many of them share in another organized youth work. Since the sport is large and a prominent party, it is often needed to remind them that, under the group, organized youth is also a nonemployment under the merits of sports, and that is what this matter is about in my opinion. The problem is that these groups are being discriminated against, and they are not good messages in society and especially in those times. [[The president calls.]] I expect this to be changed here, hoping that the committee will accept it and turn the bill into their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u120	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in unemployment insurance laws and sports carols payment for pay costs and contractors in the time of the crown virus epidemic, extensions of resources, etc. The matter is fine, but it has come to grips with the fact that no more factors are being dealt with, as noted by the previous speaker of the youth service of KFUM and KFUK and Boy Scouts, and in previous talks, the job of a student who is without a job in the course of years. It's something you feel you have to take to meet all the factors that are a fact about the situation we are in right now, at a time when, though, the word is fully lit up, now is the longest sun, but the sun is also increasing in the case of the Covid epidemic, and it's a joy. But these views and challenges need to be considered, so that most factors are involved. Borist has quite a lot of reviews, and I've got one here from a BSRB that's pretty extensive. I'd like to, with President's permission, read from it: ◯BSRB has been given a review of the bill for changes in unemployment insurance and has been grateful for the opportunity to give its opinion. However, BSRB makes serious comments on the fact that the coalition was not part of a government consultation process in the processing of the bill. According to one report, a consultation was made with ASI and SA, but the rest of the staff of paymen were not called at the table. Does the one here completely agree with them that it is surprising that they have not been called to the table, as it says here. ▪ More than 700 people in the BSBA Member States have an unemployment registry and a high proportion because of their work in transport - related sectors and in Southnes. The bill is dealing with the serious and long - term unemployment that now exists in this country because of the pandemic and the response to it. Since March 2020, when disease prevention measures began to have a major impact on commercial life in Iceland, the BSRB has encouraged more support in the unemployment insurance and employment systems. It has been difficult to extend the unemployment period and to increase unemployment rates. This means that this particular but large group is taking on far more economic burdens than others because of the epidemic. This review is about the number and position of unemployed, the need to create jobs, raise unemployment benefits, extend greater unemployment rates for children, and extend the recovery period. Then we'll discuss the articles on the bill that will change the unemployment legislation. It is rather detailed in the review, and it has to be said that in the case of measures that, of course, cost a lot and, of course, are actually borrowing into the future to cope with the situation as it will be, at all times in my mind, to look to all those who are facing this unemployment. It says: Uncooperativeness is the biggest challenge. Iceland's National Institute of Economics will expect the next year's substantial unemployment. In the current year, 7.8 percent of unemployment is expected to decline slowly in the coming years, but it will still be about 4.3 percent by 2026, according to the Habitat assessment. These are a bit of striking numbers, considering that you want to be optimistic. ▪ In this context, it should be noted that the annual unemployment rate between 2000 and2019 measured by an average of 3.4 percent at the Work Office. It is very important to deal with this serious situation strongly. [...] BSRB points to the need to be extended by special provisions for supplementary unemployment to children. Usually, four percent of the improvements are paid with each child under 18 years of age, which were temporarily raised to 6 percent. It is only on December 31, 2021, but it is important to extend it to the next year to ensure the well - being of children in families who have lost their job because of the pandemic. A recent report by the United States on the rights of children in Iceland shows that economic conditions cause an increase in material shortages among children. The report is based on data from 2009, 2014, and 2018 and shows that children's status was good in international comparison in 2018, with the exception of leisure activities. Comparison with previous years shows that more than half of the children can afford leisure activities in 2009. UNICEF recommends that long-term action against the negative effects of COVAD-19 in children should be taken into consideration by the government. According to BSBA, there is an increase in unemployment improvements, improvement in children's unemployment rates, and prolongation of the improvement period of some of the measures that are important for dealing with the material lack of children in Iceland. I have to say, this is a very interesting review and it's longer than this. But my time is short, so I'm just gonna wait to go better into this. I'm righting that the government will consider this so that equalizing countries will be equal to those in need of this help. It has been interesting to listen to talks and speculations today, to say, what the world will look like after this pandemic is over and what our world will be like and what our situation will be. What I want to come to is the social factor that I feel needs to focus on in terms of our younger people, people who are starting to work, people who are at school, and just before and after people are living in school. That's how I remember it, and many people agree that we've been social again during the past few years. People are more drawn into their rooms if we can say so. They get some kind of cooling out from being more on computers and phones and what they offer, which is naturally impossible, while the social factor that is essential to our memory. I'm only speaking from experience there because I know the very side of my life that I've been isolated. It's like a kind of germ you can get yourself into. Then it was a phrase that I used as a pat for myself: You are a social person, whether you like it or not. It's my use of myself so I don't look into some isolation world. But this has seemed to me to be a little growing for the younger generation today. This social element and, as a man sometimes puts it, is on the decline. I'm worried about this because we need it just to keep this side healthy. I'm saying this about this case because it refers to sports and hobbies and so on. The world of sports has changed very much over the past few years, sports, achievement, sports, such as sports, injuries, and so forth, has become a major industry in the world. We may not have been watching this in Iceland. This is something to add, to feel, and could be done for this reason to spit better on. Then I am also looking to a hobby and other practice that calls for social activity. A man's a man's fun. My concern about this is that it is more common for young people to isolate themselves. I don't feel that anyone has to have what he wants when he's young and inexperienced. We need to impress on young people to meet one another and to engage in social activities. Similarly today, members of Parliament have wondered as to what constitutes work and unemployment and have been asking whether those who accept unemployment should be aware of where the money comes from. It may also be part of the instruction I have talked about, but I feel that young people should also be able to hear what they can do for society, not what society can do for it. It is a phrase that is world famous, but it is never too often said. All of us young people want them well, I think everybody agrees on that. Therefore, the importance of these social fundamental factors and basic factors in how communities are put together, how they come into existence, and how we practice social skills and fellowship with one another, without saying what to say, no one is tortured, only young people being taught to live a positive life - style, but not to isolate themselves. When I was reading this matter, listening to the talks today, reading reviews from the other sources, this thought came very clearly into my head, and that's why I wanted to share it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u121	V.E.G. President. I hope it comes as a surprise to a respectable president that I have not yet achieved becoming an expert at the sports field. Nevertheless, I am a firm athlete, and I believe the work of sports partners and the people involved in their activities is one of the most important things in our community, so I strongly agree that the government pays for such a job. In fact, I may next have reached the road poles during my studies in Britain when I made a mistake becoming president of the cricket club in my garden, or so I thought I was, but it turned out to be the croquet club, which is a completely different sport. I had anticipated that although I didn't know or understand the sport, it would be fun to get to be the president of the British cricket club. But even though I have not been successful in this field, and being frequently, Mr. President, chosen last or with them late in the gym class in the old days, I have always respected those who do the work required to be successful in sports. Especially is this true of those who are devoted to their work because young ones train and keep their arms around sports activities, often for nothing too much. But it is a self - sacrificing and extremely important work that makes me very happy that people will respond to it. And I am not less pleased with the results of the government's efforts to make this matter, as is currently planned, that those who work as contractors do not suffer for that arrangement, for it is very normal for them to do some of the work. Here we see, however, that the political opposition to the so - called Covid business of the government may have been a failure to improve it greatly. We've seen it in more cases. Of course, one would have wanted a greater portion to be willing to accept simply the suggestions that the government has brought in many cases, good suggestions, rather than votes. In this case it worked well on the committee, and therefore it should be welcomed. The management criteria were that it could not be overlooked. However, this debate has become a bit of a business concern in the general situation. It is only natural to put these measures in context of other employment options at this time of Covid. At first, I would like to agree with the comments of those who have mentioned that it is odd that at first another level there was a way of doing this, which I reiterate to be very positive, not to have it more extensive and to take into account a number of childhood groups and their important activities and other activities, in many ways, similar to sports, but to those outside the framework of this bill. I think there's a lot of chance that if we could right now in the discussion, we could expand this process, because it's a real help all over the world. Many of the work that has been done recently has been, I think, even 6,000 of 7,000 new jobs, so you can grab one of the numbers that most of them have cast forward, be a government job. The problem, Mr. President, is that government work does not provide the extra income it needs for the welfare and welfare of the general state. It is not being minimized, however, but it should be noted that jobs on a general market are needed to support the government's financing. When there are such errors, there is concern, and the extent to which the government has, in effect, reduced the incentive for new jobs, new projects, and new valuables in the general market. It is becoming extremely complex and difficult to start or operate small companies in Iceland when it is being placed on the same level as international corporations. But now it's true that people can hardly start a small business in Iceland without having experts working just dealing with the system. We also need to ask ourselves, " Is the way the government has handled the situation today because of the epidemic leading a bad life? ' Does the government's methods provide the basis for continuing development after the epidemic has passed, or are these mainly postponing procedures, anaesthetics, as it were, for the job life during the crisis? In this regard, I feel that it is proper to consider the opinion of the tourism organization and the sector of industry to be sent to the General for these matters, under the actions of the government. I haven't heard any men point to it. Actually, I didn't get the whole discussion, but I think it's appropriate to quote directly because it gives us a specific basis and explains what the problem is. But in this view, the Group of Tourists and the Business Association says, with the permission of a president: The demand for recruitment grants has been quite extensive in recent times. More than 9,700 people had been enrolled in the campaign on June 3, mostly associated with tourism, but at the same time only about 2,700 jobs had been managed through the campaign. Thus, in spite of historical unemployment, the list of unemployment seems reluctant. A number of jobseekers have refused jobs according to local employers or otherwise showed lack of employment. Have employers in some cases reported the incident and the relevant jobseekers were killed by the unemployment registry. This appears to be a general problem and a number of examples from the employers, SA and SAF as well as from the media. SAPH and SAF encourage the announcement of such events. Mr. President. The word has a little debate over it here on this subject that it is unfair to argue that the unemployed people in general do not want to accept work, and I agree with it, it would be very unfair to say so. But we must ask ourselves, " Have I here created the system, the arrangement, with the many defects built up in the system, that my motivations are wrong, that there is simply a lack of motivation to work because of the fact that people are so severely restricted by the State? ' In view of these messages, we must wonder if in some way it is not possible to create more stimulating systems, including more stimulating tax systems, since the tax system in Iceland is not encouraging at all. We enjoy some of the world's highest taxes when money in pension is taken into account, as normal. They are part of taxpayers in most other places. Taxation is very high, and the system has developed to be discouraging rather than encouraging. But then some came whiskers. Councilmen with very interesting or different, let's say, approach the situation, even to the point of Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. A United States senator, started talking about laziness being a positive phenomenon, and he tried to reason on that. It was perhaps interesting reasoning, and doubtless correct that in some cases laziness may cause people to wonder how things can be done more effectively and easier. But we must still want to be here with an arrangement and system that fosters industriousness and value creation and punishes at least Not those who work to make valuables, for increasing their value is just what society needs. In fact, we heard criticism of what is called the Protestant work ethic. And even though I know that it's the highest. The president, now on the throne, is very strict in the use of a foreign language here on the platform, yet I must be able to quote the foreign name of a book, because it was written in German and its title was in German; Max Webers's historical and famous book, Die Protestantche Ethik un der Geist des Kapillamus. If the highest. The president doesn't comment on it, so I'm going to allow myself to translate it as Protestant work practices and the spirit of market policy. This book is likely one of the most influential factors in social studies and shows how work practices and culture can be important, even important, for the development of society and for the advancement of prosperity. I believe that the work ethic described there, and including Iceland's work ethic through the years, has been very good for us and has been a complete key to the structure of our community, the building of a community that often lives under very difficult circumstances. As a result, governments should make laws and rules that encourage this positive work ethic of Iceland's Icelanders to become useful, to promote valuables, productions, as this is the only means for us to survive what we consider most important, that the State is the capital of welfare systems, health systems, education systems, etc. While I'm definitely celebrating this matter, I believe it is proper for the government to consider whether it will continue to produce a system that will be more encouraging.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u122	Mr. President. I'd like to review an incident last December when we were here discussing the bill on the payment of an athlete for the pay cost of the Korean epidemic, which became the law of No. 155/2020, this is an extension. In a social committee, it took place that the committee was merged with a change from a smaller section and focused on paying for a team member not only to permanent staff but also to a contractor. The 2nd. ... fired. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir eyes that there was a need for extra support to cover pay remuneration due to contractors. It would have been undiscovered that the funds of the athletes were not dependent on the same employment rate as they were meant to be. Therefore, Helga Vala Helgadóttir proposed a December reimbursement of pay related fees in the law. Every senator saw the right thing to do. The law would have a problem and it would have to be tailored, yet the adjustment was added here in the hall. It was made with one of the most strange votes heard by the senators when they declared that they were thanking for the adjustment, saying that for this case there was a full agreement, but because the matter was going to name them they would have voted against the change, because it is so fixed in the administrative section of the section that if it came from the wrong direction, it is not allowed to accept a change proposal, they would have made a vote at the same time and they claim to support it. But they don't realize that support is not just a word we're giving up here in a pont. Rather, it's a support for the adjustment of the motion to press the yes button on our tables, which they didn't do in this case. In December, a well - versed department was able to get ahead of it and returned to 3rd. to the council a common arrangement that was materially identical to the one that had been released from Helga Vala Helgadóttir. This was arranged in the last few yards, but it would be good to review it in order to remember what coolness sometimes is about these matters. The proposals of the government stand here in the hall because they need to be recycled and submitted in the name of government officials to get them approved. When the board's commanders, 2nd. The thing we're discussing here today, dropped the proposal on a welfare committee that allowed unemployment to be paid to those attending school, I hoped that it was only in order that governments could place their ownership on the proposal and put it in their own name at Leviticus. I'm very sorry that such proposals have not come to light because I think few demands have come to us as often, as clearly and as well as as the demand of the student movement for working students to pursue the right that it has earned by paying the cost of employment if they don't get a job on leave. The National College Board of College of Iceland calculates in its review to this bill that there are seven reports of changes in the law on unemployment insurance, pointing to this issue, and the first one was submitted on March 23, 2020. Every other month students have been present until the council's conclusion and evidence, and not heard, except by government opposers, who submit laws that are subsequently dropped by the government. But why is that important, Mr. President? It matters because the alimony system built around students is not suitable for them. This is not suitable for them because 70% of the Icelandic students have to work with schools to support themselves in school. It was shown in the Eurostdent poll last spring. At the same time, the student council published the results of an investigation carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, which found that at the national level, 28.4% of students claim to have major or very financial problems. This is not a healthy system, Mr. President, it is a system that we should have fixed when the student's education laws were adopted two years ago. There was a clearer, simpler rule, more efficient system, but it is still going to fix the basic development, the magic number that controls whether students write or be good. Still seems to be some romance connected to the fact that it should be a little difficult to study, not necessarily to keep it too good. How else can we explain that two years after the Enforcement Act has been passed, the basic transfer of students from the 180 thousand each month has not been raised? It's 180,000 bucks. each month for nine months each year because the student loan system calculates it and actually demands that students earn three months a year during the summer period. It is good and blessed when the job conditions offer it, when there is plenty of work to be done, and people in school breaks can fill up with the salaries it demands that it fill in to ensure adjournment over a year. But as the economic situation changed, as it did in the last summer, so the whole service industry, tourism, all these seasonal activities disappear on a single board, which may run more often than many other groups, it is easier said than make three months of their own income during the summer months. Students and other students were not demanding any kind of charity, but it was simply that the student group who looked forward to possible unemployment in the summer but had paid insurance, had paid to defend people if they became unemployed, could gain unemployment. In a perfect world, of course, this would not be so that a student loan system and unemployment insurance system need to be weighed down, but the fact is that these two systems have not been able to work together. It's not supposed to land on the shoulders of students when there's an economic crisis on the land. That was not the condition of this student's claim last summer. The government will not again accept this claim of students and point out how to protect themselves in the activities that have been started to create jobs for students in the summer. It is fine action, making a job is fine, so students can even feel something appropriate in their field of education and do it during the summer. But the requirement for students is that, in addition to their operations, individuals have the same security net as all other working people in the country, that people paying for employment insurance may, when they don't get a job, retrievate funds from that fund. This discrimination against students who pay for the fund has been repeatedly pointed out for the past year. There's been no listening, and I don't quite know what word is best used to describe what I think of it, Mr. President, that disregard for the survival of students who have been shown here repeatedly. This is sad at the same time as the government points out that the way we go is through innovation and some progress of society on the grounds of the education system. At the same time, the State must shoulder its responsibility that students can ensure their advancement, so that people will not be released from school just because they can't work for the summer. We are already in the position of the Icelandic university students who are older than their coal in Europe because they start later in college. They often take a break in study, perhaps to collect money in order to afford to go to college. They are also longer because working along with studies often delays the progress of study, and they have greater responsibilities than those in the same places elsewhere in Europe, often provide families, have invested in property that needs to be paid off, and therefore they cannot afford the irresponsible financial situation that the government offers them again and again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u123	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the speech, for the interesting diagnosis and review and the comparison of student positions. I agree perfectly with the senator that there is a greater need to put things in perspective. There may be only other places in Iceland than in many other places. I'm not going to say it's everywhere, but at least in many other places. We have a government that, of course, is bringing some kind of action, like why. A senator mentioned, making some work, yet it is as if they are just taking a short step, not taking the step to the full, such as. by going to the operation that students would agree with this bill, these changes that we are discussing right now. So you wonder: " Why not? ' Is it because there is no perspective? Do the systems and the Ministry or the institutions not talk together? What makes it impossible to watch this whole thing and say: Okay, we're going to do this, but there's a certain group that also needs help, there aren't enough jobs for all students, etc.? There must be a backup system, there must be plan B or C or what we call it. Is it because the perspective is lacking? The solution to the situation associated with this Covid situation was chosen for action. By looking at the whole matter, some form of prevention was not taken. So I wondered, " Is it possible for governments to not overlook the problem when it comes to students and therefore take these two steps, not the big ones? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u124	Mr. President. Yes, I think there can be evidence that the government does not have the perspective of student status, at least they did not have that in the first place. In March when the student movement first began talking to the student's position in the Covid situation, it was the students themselves who made surveys of professional status in their group. It was so noteworthy, it is seldom that an interest group will arrive as well at the council and can only show black in white where the need is as well as who it is. What has been followed is what to call it? It is some stubborn or paradox at the Ministry that you feel like you don't want to take a spade, even though students always say the same thing and live on the same reality. It's a reality that hasn't changed in any sense but never responds. You see, I'm not quite sure where this cow springs up or what the reason for this is. If we just discuss examples of the measures taken, e.g. About a year ago, it was decided not to let people into the unemployment insurance system they have paid for. Rather, it was referred to as adding support to the New World Fund of students. The student's innovation fund is fine, but the monthly wage there is 300,000 dollars. for two months during the summer. It's three months in the education fund. And $300,000. Over two months divided over three months is not a high forward. [[The president calls.]] So it wasn't to ensure the survival of students.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u125	The President reminds us that the English word is culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u126	V.E.G. President. I'll try to make my good case here by this comment, which, in fact, wasn't directly to me, but it doesn't matter. What beats me a little - beats and doesn't - you wonder if it could have been given a little more time to review these changes. They are thought to be vast. I'll make it clear that I'm very in favor of the case. We're gonna take care of this. However, there is good reason to say whether humans could have taken a little more time for this. It's interesting as hell. A senator came up with regard to the possible stratosphere. And as nice as the New World Fund for students, it doesn't cover all of them, just like any other system. So we're talking about the fact that it's all too complicated. Of course, there's something special -- and thank you very much. A senator for reviewing it, I had just forgotten - that students themselves made a study of student status. Of course, it should have come from somewhere else, and of course the Ministry of Education or any such problem should have been determined to determine exactly what the status of this group is. The government does not have the most beautiful words when it comes to all students and the school system, but the perspective seems to be lacking, Mr. President, to name it. Then I ask, What is the solution? If we want to respond to this, what the solution is right now? Is it possible to make some kind of adjustment, even more changes, work together for some kind of change that takes into this group and these groups? I'd like to remind you that in my first talk here tonight, I even spoke. about youth service, including the Boy Scouts, that I think would be of good reason to look to if we were to discuss some aspect of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u127	Mr. President. First, I want to say the word with the question. A senator that there are some positive changes to this and to these laws, even though we are here dealing with the problems of things not here, simply because some of the things that should be here are just so obvious that they should be there. The Senator speaks of the people of youth, and I take my heart under him. When we talk about students having the right to take money out of the unemployment insurance fund paid by students, we're not talking about any radical change, we're just talking about people not losing rights that each other's workforce has, simply because of their college position. Besides, it's great if all of the government's professional actions are successful and there'll only be a lot of jobs for students in the summer. Then they won't have to take advantage of the right to get on unemployment. Yet, we need him inside the law as a safety net if the other does not catch them. Hv. A senator was wondering if we could get together on some of the changes in the material. I don't think so. This coal dude here at 2nd. This has probably occurred in most of the seven times that the Council of Students has sent the reviews to us. They simply do not want them to listen to students and give them what they need, what they say they need themselves, because the government thinks they know better what they need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u128	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for an excellent speech. He did some good stuff. What I cut off was that students are older in Iceland than in the control countries, we can say, and we're longer in school. I wanted to ask you what. A senator in question, whether that is the real reason why it has not been the way of raising the progress of students. Now the latest fund law, if I recall correctly, was meant to reward students who completed their studies at the specified time, so I'm thinking, " Can this hang somehow? ' I'm not defending it at all, but I'm trying to get a picture of what it looks like. The other was that only jobs for students were discussed. summer. It seemed then that jobs were too specialized, so they needed specialized education often and at times to care for them. That's why they didn't do as well as they went along, and it may tell me that they had some money that didn't take care of it. Why isn't it used now? There may be two things to start with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u129	Mr. President. Yes, now we have come to guess what's in store for the government. I'm trying to recall what the discussion was like when we agreed on a student's education fund. The student movement made it clear that the biggest changes in the bill were not for those who were studying at that time but rather for those who were older and who paid back from student loans. There were the big, expensive steps. This is all because it may have been easier for the Ministry to listen to clients who have more advanced age and community status than to study themselves that is not good, not at all. However, when we agreed to the law, it was also said that they would already be reviewing the basic progress because it is simply too low, regardless of whether the Icelandic students are older than students in other countries and regardless of their status. They are older, have more housing, and are more likely to have a contribution to children than their peers in other European countries, but the basic development is simply too low. The basic contribution for a single student who lives in his own house is 180,000 per month. It's just not enough. Here, too, we can reflect on the inconsistencies between the values in our forwards, why 180,000 for students and other basic updates for people in other temporal circumstances?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u130	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting discussion, and, of course, more and more questions arise. The first question, of course, is, What is the cause? If I understand correctly, Icelandic students are older when they enter a university or other university education and are longer in education. It's kind of a vicious circle, I imagine, having to go to 180,000 bucks. per month, one subject. It even calls for concern over financial matters, and it must affect the spiritual health of students, that can be, of being in this straitjacket. I think we're right next door. When we discussed the education fund and it was approved here, a senator said that the biggest case was a loan from responsible men. That was the big deal. I remember our students meeting with us on the committee, and they were well aware of their affairs. But I am now mainly thinking about this vicious cycle, about going back to school and taking longer to study, and what it will do to keep up with the tensions and worry about the financial situation while reaching the next test to get something out of the loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u131	Mr. President. I think the senator met the question on her head when she spoke of a vicious cycle in this context because too low basic progress means that too much students have to work through studies that can go back to work. As a result, people go to school for more time and then have to take a higher student's loan. What we did with the law on education was to introduce a strengthening system that was designed to stimulate students to speed up their progress, but that system cannot work without a measure of encouragement. The basic progress is still small, for people continue to support themselves with work, and study suffers. This does not change people's ability to see light at the end of the tunnel if they cannot afford to devote themselves to the study 100% because they are too low. And it may also be helpful to review also the positions that were created when the funding system was inserted and decided at the same time that the loan part would have to be self-sustained, so that reimbursement is needed at any given time. There is no ambition that the student loan system is so built up that it should just run itself, that the state has not been able to spend a little money on it just to get people out of school better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u132	V.E.G. President. It's a fine discussion here, indeed. It is not often that we have time to think about things this way. But this is very good. What I was going to talk about in this talk is especially the groups that are left behind in the resources we are discussing here today. While entertainment works very well for sports companies, it is what turns out that youth - oriented activities are left behind. We received an mail in December of last year, if I recall correctly, from KFUM and KFUK, where we were told that the youth service outside the sports movement was about 20 to25%. In irony, they may try to say that if these sides were sports companies, they would have died under the very resources discussed here. I will make adjustments that ignore youth service because, as I have seen today in almost most speeches, it is a matter of justice to all and especially when we are not talking about this for a long time. It came to me for the benefit of it, i.e. how this affects many children who do not engage in organized sports! It's a difference, of course, and it's a little awkward. It is as if these were simply forgotten that there are more than a number of children who do not find themselves in traditional sports, but they find themselves in Boy Scouts or Youth work, such as those in KFUK. By leaving this group, we are, in effect, indicating that this work is not important and these children are not supposed to live on the same opportunities as those who are planning a sports job, to get through these last yards now, I want to say it. Everyone looks forward to a better time, and hopefully it will all work out. But if we're going to do this, we have to do it right and do it well so that everyone can enjoy it. I mentioned only spiritual health earlier today, and I think it is of great importance that we take seriously the clues we read about and hear about in the news and in other media that the spiritual health of children and young people is deteriorating. Now that most people see the sun, sometimes it acts in contrast to those who cannot look up so high. How important it is that we clean up now and take all these children! We received reviews, and it is ideal for us to look back at these reviews, and it might have been desirable to do so in the early stages. However, there has been no good listening conditions for these matters. You know, somehow this thing's just going to go through, but it's not good enough. Then we can talk about students again and again. It's kind of ridiculous that they're not in the unemployment insurance system and that's not just right now, it's just general. Of course, if a student's salary is taken into that pot, he should make sure that he enjoys it. It's a turn, but we can be careful. But there is a lack of a greater part here at the council, so we are now where we are, but at any rate, we try to make adjustments, which benefit both students and youth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u133	A respectable president. We'll discuss changes in unemployment insurance laws and the law on the payment of an athlete's carols for pay and contractors. It's changing the law to extend the reference period because no one really knows when we'll be completely out of this year's crowning season. It would be safer to extend this tool, which has proved to be extremely well with our athletes, to be able to collect strengths or parts of payment for the pay and contractor's work during this period, although it has been greatly improved in the last few weeks, and hopefully it will only continue and this form of therapy that was least used. But when the bill on payment for an athlete first came in here and became the law No. Of course, 155/2020, however, was immediately identified as a failure in them, not all youthful kindness was taken. I'm going to make it my subject, the defect in the law that immediately appeared, that they only reach the sports society, not to other youth activities, only to sports in Iceland's Antics and Olympics, which are many and a number of sports underneath, and of course, the biggest part of young people who are conducting youth activities in the sports movement. However, as noted in a review from KFUM and KFUK, their youth activity is not in there. Of course, this organization, like the sports companies, does a lot of preemptive work. I think it should be in there, too, and as well as the Boy Scouts, the Alliance of Icelandic Boy Scouts and all the Boy Scouts there, who are just over 40. I spoke up in my earlier speech all these Boy Scouts, who are many and a lot more than I could imagine, because I've never been in Boy Scouts, unfortunately. But they were at least 40 and even more than 40. I got a tip after my first speech that I had been overlooked by some of those boys, e.g. The Volgas here in Reykjavík, I forgot to mention them in my first speech, and then a member of the Thors Harbor, which has not been active in the last two years. But these are a lot of corporations. And in the Western islands where I lived for a long time, the School of the Boy Scouts had a powerful function. You had a lot of trouble with these young people who were traveling through town and up in lava, doing all kinds of exercises or something, I don't quite know what they were doing, I just don't know, but they were camping and stuff like that. The founder of the Boy Scout movement in England was Baden-Baden-Powell. The movement was formed in 1907 in England and can be traced back to the beginning of Baden-Baden-Powell taking a group of boys to an island, Brownea, teaching them to associate with nature and to be in nature. He felt that many children were inactive, and that was the beginning. He wanted to develop the inventionism of young people and children by taking them in some form of camping to develop their attention span and imagination. This is very important. Although this may be old - fashioned today, it still applies, young children and kids benefit so much from developing inventions, getting ideas, making them reality, and dealing with problems, not just by orders.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. Similarly, a senator and his middle - class members pointed out the strangeness of the fact that sports and youth society are not at the same level as those laws. It's a very similar operation. Because of what? A senator mentioned his experience in earlier activities within the movement, so I would like to ask the senator if this is the tensions that sometimes mounts between sports movements, youth movements, and teenage movements. Somehow, these communities, all of which are co-founded, appear to be in their respective parts, although they are actually heard under the same Ministry of Education and Culture, all of them under the Ministry of Education and Culture. I don't know if the reason this bill doesn't treat all these associates in the same way is because it's the Social Affairs Minister who puts up the bill, whether it describes a lack of understanding within the Ministry of Social Affairs, simply because the groups involved are not hearing under it. In this regard, it is almost possible to include students, students, students who hear under the Ministry of Education who have received no audience in this prime minister of Social Affairs so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the questions. Of course it is in all sports society's activities that even between parts of town and town, sports partners, of course, and parts of the country, etc. They're on their side. Of course, the human soul and mankind are engraved on something. At the General Assembly, we have learned that there are different categories of people, and sometimes even if they agree with others, they do everything for their own. Hv. A senator asked about the tension. Of course, these activities, sports, youth activities, Boy Scouts, sports companies, chess games, i.e. working among children and adolescents, being under the same hat because it's all headed in the same direction. It is moving toward developing children and moving them to promote their social development and skills, physical activity, mental development, etc. Of course, all of this should be under the same view in the state when it comes to the government's backing on such activities wherever they are and under whatever merit they may be. Of course, certain requirements are to be made professional and educated, etc. But on the basis of all of this, it is all going the same way; it is developing young ones and developing children. I mentioned the Boy Scout work that I find fascinating, although it has become quite old - fashioned, in the late 110 years since the movement was formed. But it's a good idea, i.e. that children learn from performing things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u136	A respectable president. When we're discussing here the different kinds of partnerships, Boy Scouts, chess relationships, sports clubs, and what it's all called, I wonder if the law might be too petty, whether action should have been more general practice, just as a reminder that at the beginning of an epidemic, a financial minister said that it would now be done more than less and less, with full force, if laws of this kind were to reach public society in general that cover sports and a variety of other societies that may not have to become a problem and therefore have to do not have to look to the State than others, even though they are not sports communities. There's one thing I'd like to mention because of what happened. A senator mentioned all the advantages of this organized social work for the individuals who participate in it. Also, although it may not be so romantic, this activity can have a powerful, economic positive effect. It was only last month that an electrical sport tournament was held in the Saturday Valley Palace, where about 400 people were allowed to compete in what is called the President's race, with the permission of the President, ◯League of Legends's 700. They were tourists who had much currency, a great deal of economic activity in times of need. [[The president calls.]] It is a sport that, in fact, is just beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u137	Mr. President. I thank you again for these questions. By the way, this reminds me that I really need to give a second speech. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned electrical sports that I'm especially interested in, not because I have some knowledge about them, not at all, but I think it's such a good way for young people, the kind of young people we all know who are sitting on the computer all day long and who are not involved in sports. That's exactly the group. The function of electronic sports associates is trying to get these people to promote their social systems and to participate in these activities, i.e. some kind of video games, get together, talk about the game, their interests, and train yourself, get some results, etc. From this, there are often geniuses in programming, etc. Many of these youths have had significant results in this. So that's where we're going, and of course we're supposed to be supporting this, too. Fortunately, most of these companies are in the sports movement, and I don't know if they're all of them, but of course we should try to put our arms around it all, if I may use it. Of course there's a group we have to attend to. I also want to use this opportunity in the second enemy to mention that I am very happy to hear of it. paritaprevir In her speech before me, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Aarnadótir spoke from the time she was going to propose a change in this bill to the creature that the KFUM referred to in its review, i.e. Adding to another childhood job, not only sports, so that in the middle of Iceland's Olympian Union, the Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, KFUM and K in Iceland, and other organizations have in the name of a sports and youth service contract with the Education and Culture Ministry. It's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u138	V.E.G. President. We will discuss this case in which the pandemic operation is extended for a particular group, i.e. Sports companies. We've been discussing here tonight the importance of more people coming to the table, the fact that more people get correction or a certain solution. Sadly, we haven't had much discussion from the government's section on this subject. On the other hand, certain ideas have been embellished, and it would certainly be very good if there were some ways to respond. Of course, the matter has come quite far, and some adjustments have already been made in the discussions and in the question that there would be some other agreement. But I don't think that any senators have expressed deep concern for both students and their youth societies quite often, natural, because it's bad to see good groups get no solution. This may be a strange expression to me, good groups, but it's bad to see groups of people, groups in the community that have sought out and shown that they really live under these laws. Naturally, we've been worried about that. The matter, as many have said, is improving. It is absolutely clear that this is improving, but we have certain opinions about whether things have gone far enough. No, we feel that we are not going far enough, but we will still support the case because, as I said before, it is for the benefit of the group it embraces. We would've wanted to see more going, we'd have wanted to see solutions to more groups, but we have to wait on it. Senators have given good reason why, for example. Students should be under these laws to change and improve their survival, if I may say so, eliminate uncertainty and so on. As a result, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to agree with it. Let us agree that students need a solution. These have been listed as steps taken. They may not have worked. We've talked about taking short steps, not big, and these steps need to be larger. As a result, Mr. President, I have emphasized the need for us to find ways as early as possible to respond to the situation of these groups. I reiterate what I said here earlier tonight: Youthful service is very important, just as it is a sports job. In both of these areas, people are working with their health and minds, young people especially, but, of course, all of us are to participate in the sport and youth activities that they can and we are to support such, of course, Mr. President. I hope, of course, that the matter will be agreed here at the council, but it would be a wish for someone from the board to come and talk to us about the changes we are seeking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u139	Mr. President. In my earlier speech tonight, I was merely wondering whether work is really something that we should be forcing people in every case and asking for a lot of discussion. Because of what? In his talk, a senator mentioned that students should be able to obtain some of the unemployment benefits that I agree with, so I wondered, " Is that even the wrong question? ' In my opinion, this should not stand and fall with the unemployment reform system. Rather, it should be about us as a community that students can be pretty economicly safe while they focus on their study. We naturally have a learning loan system, and some of it can turn into strong ones. But I'd do it. A senator can agree, or describe his position on the idea, somehow trying to jump into this so that it is not just a loan, part of it either as a scholarship or as unemployment benefits to students, but only a powerful support network for students while they are in school so that they can focus on the study? We know that this will eventually have economic benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u140	V.E.G. President. I can say with what. A senator said that it would be a very exciting and really pleasant challenge to look to him and try to draw out a system in which we could see that people could be studying and that they might even speed up by being different in ways of supporting students. It's a very exciting thought to me. But what I was witnessing, and others, are at least as the system is today, many students who earn certain rights, if you can put it that way, and they should be able, of course, to pick them up. But I think it's a very exciting thought and an idea. One senator wondered if we could mix and put together a system that would adapt more to the needs of students than is available today. It's some kind of box we're a little stuck in. Like so many times before, when I'm on some committee with what? A senator, it's just very exciting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u141	Mr. President. I would like my second speech in this discussion about the bill to legalize the law on unemployment insurance, which said prolongation of the law that was approved here. December, to include only the viewpoints reflected in the comments on the subject, in which childhood society and other similar societies, the Boy Scouts, and the non - athletes, wish to agree with this solution in the same way that the sports companies do. When the matter first came in in in December, of course, there were major problems and could be said to say that the largest energy came to guide the government so that it would be understood that contractors should be handled in a similar way and that society's pay would be paid. The committee managed to bring it a better one, so it became quite nice, of course, for the proportion of contractors that would be appreciated. My opinion was that it would have been wiser to look to the extent that it was higher than it did. However, this does not change the fact that the majority of the people responded to reasoning as represented by the government of the opposition, and the situation improved. In view of this, it can be said that it is not unusual to think of any statements in this issue with a certain hope that similar views will be looked forward to now, even though such a prince's approach to youth is not being discussed in terms of taxation or run - by approach. Now I have a review of the KFUM and KFUK in front of me, and the inscription does not reduce the point. The headline of the President's CFUM and KFUK headline: ▪ An occasional opportunity to fix serious defects and discrimination in the 155/2020 law on the payment of an athlete's club due to pay expenses during the Korean season. In fact, it is getting closer to the point that, of course, childhood society, such as these, should enjoy, or be able to enter the same support system as this is intended for sports companies. This comments by KFUK and KFUK are expected to be highly polite, but at the same time strongly and are given sound reasons that the World Health Committee, as follows, corrects this, with the permission of the President: ▪ The General Assembly Board now has a unique opportunity to correct the mistakes made in the past winter on the sentence of law No. 155/2020. Mistakes that sent a very bad message to society, mistakes that do not bring honor to anyone. This point, of course, is that I would have liked that we, a council or a contemporaneous place. A welfare committee, would have looked to this and, in any case, forced him to try to discern the impact this would have and no matter how much it would have on these activities that are as important as it is. She's so many that I'm not going to list her various forms. However, there could be natural mention of the country's Boy Scouts, the KFUM and KFUK, who send in the envelopes and others. Based on the tone of sports companies, whether it's the reviews of Iceland's Youth Company or KSI or others, this has, in particular, the change made in the services of the health committee in December, to put the contractors under some of the same hat as the sports company's pay fees, impacting sports companies. I'm sorry that the influence and support of these young people and their diverse communities around the country could not have been considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u142	Mr. President. We can see if I have enough questions to answer two people if the President is so generous. I want to give up my hope. A senator mentioned that the information about the CFCs and the Ks may well be that their hope is in their account. But this is a hope that should be so self - determination, the hope that the Council will listen to the arguments presented in reviews and change matters for the better when it is obvious that they need to be changed. This is the way it should be every day with us, but it isn't. As the senator points out, this law suggests that the Council is listening more than usual when a health committee realized it at the end of the last year's reviews, that due to the wide range of recruitment relationships or activities between individuals and sports partners, it would be necessary to consider non-employment contracts. Then there was one member of the Committee who realized only later that the pay - related fees were to be considered particularly because the strength to their peers was being lowered. You see, I feel a little hopeless because this proposal was made here at the Senate Hall by the members of the management team who came in a pit and claimed to support the change, of course, had to be fixed, and then pressed the red button on the table because they didn't realize that there would be a connection between what you're saying and what you're doing. Now that we've seen what the YES and K say, it's been shown through reviews, and now we've seen a proposal fall into a vote to add students. So I would like to ask the senator, " Is there any hope in the future? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Unfortunately, in this room it is often so that it does not quite match sound and image. Of course, it is disappointing when governments arise here one after another and express support for certain viewpoints or material, but then they take their seat and submit to the proposals of the committee, unfortunately, it is not quite acceptable. We've seen it countless times. But like I think it's likely to be. A senator himself has made me support the proposal asked to increase the estimate ratio from 70% to 90%. They cut it off from the board of directors. I don't know if the executives have left enough behind at that point in terms of the case on the committee, they have to explain it themselves. However, if we were to try to understand the hope expressed in the comments of the YES and K then it had occurred in this particular case that it had improved substantially in committees, in effect becoming a revolution. It is understandable, then, that those who wrote a review on behalf of YES and K felt that there would be a reasonable and polite response to the suggestion that more people were in a significant position throughout this epidemic than there were sports companies - happily presented a handsome way to meet them. I think it is understandable that such a group had hoped that such views would be listened. But then, of course, it was out there in the hall, as we know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u144	Mr. President. I also wondered if it matters now, and whether it will shine through in these bills - let's talk about them both, both what was done here in December and what we're discussing right now - a particular problem that just arises from a workforce in the Council where the walls between recruitments will cause it at the fall of the Department of Social Affairs, which offers these bills, not to see the wide variety of employees within the board would be individual. Therefore, the council had to set matters straight considerably. And now in spring, it seems that the same Ministry does not realize that there are other non-established societies in the bill. It so happens that all the activities involved in the bill are actually outside the local Department of Social Affairs. It's all the work under the Ministry of Education and Culture that they want to burn to avoid talking between recruitments. Do we see such flashes of light? So brief again about hope because I find it such an interesting point. It is natural for people in a town to feel a special hope when they see us taking some false reasoning into consideration. In itself, I rejoice over every hope in which it shines, but it is a rebuke to the work of the Generals that it is such an exception that it brings attention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson later responded. First, it is only a matter of action. When given for the bill, the exception of this case, i.e. the bill in which the elements of the materials are now being extended and added. December 3rd. spoke to the social minister for the bill that is now being extended here in the hall. There, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Minister in speech, permission of presidents: It is important that this bill is examined in the light that there is one piece of paper in the form we now bring to the sport. The Minister of Education will request an approved warrant to raise the funds that will be distributed through this income crisis grant, and it will be expected to be paid through budgets, and hopefully it will be approved. And continue the minister: ▪ I reviewed it in my first speech, however, why the contractors aren't in the bill now, what the evidence was for, and where the change came from [...] We'll set aside capital, which will also be requested at the council, to meet the contractors that are about to be paid. The same amount of money that this bill is expected to cost. Then the minister, with permission from the President, says: ▪ Because people wonder about the transparency of such intervention, I assume that it will be one of those things that the Minister of Education will publish when the council decides to give her permission to post money for that project. All this discussion, therefore, could be read to see that this shift was expected, and it was suddenly deposed to the case and put all through the Labour Office. And to tie it in, it's the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs to Answer me on December 3 and says, by permission of the President: ▪... was decided to make changes, to provide the bill in this way here that the funds intended for contractors would go to a special fund that would be paid out of the education minister's interest. Of course, this fund was never established, but this distinction of action is surely meant to reduce the depth and emphasis each minister can have on his own, so to speak. It appears that there was a decision made that a minister of education would be pulled out of the picture, but a social minister would hold the case to full effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u146	Mr. President. We are dealing with a bill about changing the unemployment insurance law, and then we are discussing the proposed changes in the law on the payment of an athlete's carols for pay and shops during a Korean's season. In the beginning of my speech, I want to reiterate what I said in my earlier speech that it is absolutely necessary to correct this matter in the way that sports and youth society are not discriminated against in the way that for the sake of filming, it is in a very good statement from KFUM and KFUK, which sums up the law of reaching only sports partners in Iceland and the Olympics. The review of the KFUM and KFUK shows that a line was drawn across the group of language sports and youth work, a rescue ring being thrown to the members of the team defined as sports communities while the others were treading in the seagull. As it states, Mr. President, this is natural, as the review puts it, an intolerable discrimination. Of course, it is vital that these be corrected. Mr. President. It is attributed to these laws that are properly changed by this payment not only to communities within the Iceland and the Olympic Union, which, of course, are all well paid prices and very good to show them this understanding and support. But the suggestion for KFUM and KFUK is that, i.e. Iceland's Union of Sports and Olympics adds to the Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK in Iceland and other organisations who have the name of a sports and juvenile service contract with the Education and Culture Ministry. It is attributed to this review that the number of organizations that have such formal agreements with the Ministry of Education and Culture in the name of sports and youth is limited and well defined. Thus, with the proposed change, of course, being a matter of justice and fairness, no undefined flood - ups from the state's fund are being opened. Then, Mr President, I would like to call attention to the review of the University of Iceland's School of Students, which includes the simple requirement, as stated in the review, that all working students can pursue the right they have earned by paying their employment insurance, according to Article 3. law on insurance paid by the remunerationpayers, in the same way as with other working people, and without being discriminated against for their study. This is now a modest wish, Mr. President, and it is my hope that the government will listen and make things right, both for juvenile society and for the studio, that these agents will not be discriminated against.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u147	V.E.G. President. We are already discussing unemployment insurance and the payment of an athlete's partner because of pay expenses and shops in a pandemic. I was giving a talk earlier, and the talk period did not end because I was speaking out of comments that I found interesting. I pointed out that there were more jobs, youth service, the mention of KFUM and KFUK, the Boy Scouts, the professional skills of students, and other matters to consider in this regard. I have a review from the ASI that says, by permission of the President: In terms of the subject of the bill, ASI agrees with its goals and does not make unique material remarks, but in the larger context of government resources, two are given special attention. It agrees with the views observed in certain youth - oriented authorities that their damage has been done only to a small extent, and perhaps to a reasonable degree, that such communities should be treated in the same way as athletes, according to law No. 155/2020. All youth activities are important, especially for children and young people. It must be ensured that the loss of these important activities does not result in a significant increase in economic impacts produced during the Korean season inhibiting the function in the long term. As the partial improvement process nears its end, ASI may call attention to the status of individuals who have been paid for a longer or shorter period of time. It will not be easy for concerned individuals to have a reduced right to both the orlation as well as holiday replacements laid out in collective agreements that employers should pay the workers who work for them, although in proportion to the work cut. 12 months. In 2021, a total of 52,000 dollars per labour market is full orbs of the pay market. The European Union of Iceland expressed concern for those who have some degree of reduced orlabular rights, as described above. It is expected that for many, it can have very poor financial consequences as a result of an obligatory part of the presupulous rights of pay people needed to make up their school days and so on. In this context, it is also appropriate to keep in mind the importance of individual or professional vacationation. In this regard, there can be a reference to goals and the general views behind the law of No. 30/1987 on orlof. ASI considers it important for the government to improve these individuals from a planned loss of income due to the coming holiday period [...] This is from a review sent over to show that this other fine issue would have had to be examined from a wider perspective. Here's a motion from the smaller parts that can totally agree, and I agree completely with what it says. But there is also more that would have, as noted in the reviews, have been allowed to consider and would have been a good thing to do, but this case has come a long way, it is now 3rd. ... that it may not be possible to deal with it right now. But that needs to be kept in mind before you know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u148	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to correct the change in home loans law to consumers, No. 118/2016. The committee discussed the matter and received reviews from the International Economic Organizations, Homing and Disturbing Institutes, the Association of Financial Services and the Bank of Nations, and brought representatives from these agencies to the Commission with representatives from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The bill suggests that the limits of the maximum loans and the payment rate of which a proportion of income will be further defined, as well as proposed to be added to the provision of the Shared Bank's licenses to define the limits given because of a percentage of total money totald in a given period. With the approved bill, it will ensure that Iceland's Sidlabanki has the necessary tools to support financial stability and reduce serious financial disorders. A review from the financial organisations that covers a greater proportion of the Committee shows that when changes in the terms of loans are made, they are well presented to consumers before they go into effect. If these controls are used, lenders will be able to change their systems, and the real-estate buyers who have already begun a trade process, and they will not be adversely affected by the pressure of the hardened conditions. The majority suggest that the bill be approved. Under the titled publications, as well as those of President Bryndís Haraldsdóttir Kárason, President Jón Valdimarsson, Bordiísdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and The Þórarinn Pétursson. Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson was away at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u149	Mr. President. Has a what? A senator's concern is not that this is an excessive attack on people's freedoms? It is known that while the same people often have to pay more monthly rent than loans. People do, but they are not allowed to borrow for housing, even if they pay less than the rent price. Organization for financial companies at the moment. A senator, although he did not mention that chapter, pointed out that this will result in the loss of potential limits, especially those who earn less money, to borrow and establish housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u150	V.E.G. President. Yes, I am always concerned about excessive restrictions on people's freedoms. This is probably not the worst bill we've ever had with it. This is where we meet this freedom, i.e. that people in general are responsible for what they do and for what they do and for people's efforts and for the view that overindulging in financial affairs can have a significant impact on the economic situation in the country. It's a little pulling. But it is true that when you see that people are not getting paid for some payment, you are amazed that they pay even more rent and have shown that they have done it for a very long time. This may not always be comparable, since having property that renters in general do not pay has a certain amount of cost. But taking into account the cost, you don't quite understand. I agree with that. Then it may be said that the freedoms of people in this matter are unduly advanced now and that they have been for quite a while and that they are not entirely new. But here it is simply beginning to be that men clearly feel that there is a need for people not to get ahead of themselves in this, which can affect the economic stability of the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u151	Mr. President. In view of this question. A senator would be curious to learn if he might have other ideas about where the State might know people and businesses about what sort of agreements to make. There are a number of ways in which the State may want to know people. In the past, the Independence Party was a class that fought for the public in Iceland to have their own home and their own car, thus holding the freedom of having a place to go. Now we see an endless stream of bills trying to force people to own and get their way, and it is punishable in all possible ways by such impudence to own and run a car, and it now adds to this increased limitation of the ability to obtain housing, especially those who earn less money. Consider this in the context of what is bad. A senator and I mentioned earlier, how people in the banking system already want to direct people away from borrowing and building houses. These same banks now say that this bill is a failure to reduce the risk that people can have their own housing. Isn't it time, considering. A senator, looking back into the source and supporting their freedom and the possibility of enjoying freedom, building and car, and making his way here in the capital area and beyond?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u152	V.E.G. President. Yes, I'm really worried that we in general are going way too far to be aware of people. In fact, we do so in cases where there is no public interest. In this case, it's obvious that we can call it experts or scientists, maybe because we're so cremated with the collapse, that such national interests are up to nothing going wrong in the financial system. That is why freedom is being limited. The same concerns do I now worry that we are simply going very far in the middle of a self - defense. We're kind of burnt and the world's all of it. It will always be easier for the government and lawgiver to limit individual freedoms, always in such situations as banking, Covid, etc. But it is true that the Independence Party has fought for our ability to have a roof over our heads. We believe the right of possession is so important to the welfare of the nation. It is important for the public to have a roof over their heads. This also makes it easier for older ones to do so. But there's only these national interests, that we can't go so far in freedom that we can overthrow our economic system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u153	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Brassur Níelsson's Brynjar did well with regard to evolution in politics and, in fact, in the United States. with regard to the freedom and trust of the government of the common people. I have a little bit of concern that in this case, in support of the evidence, there was a tendency that I had found to be somewhat prominent, and especially the last miseries, to speak in one way and then to do something quite different. I imagine that, Mr. President, I know that, but I shall only say that I imagine that, to reason. A senator agrees with me on this problem. But what can be done? Of course, a person may find the roots, as I was encouraging them. A senator to here today believing his own message, e.g. when it comes to the importance of freedom and the importance of giving people a chance. There is endless evidence that people or businesses can do harm if the government does not keep track of what kind of contracts are made, what is lawful, and what is not. In the case we discuss here, I find this really obvious because there is already a problem, without the intervention of the State, that earning people find it hard to borrow, as we have discussed, that they may even have to pay more than every month of rent but would cost to build up property. So you find it hard to see the need for the State to intervene, and you plan to manipulate the types of contracts people and financial companies do between you. No doubt, that is true. A senator says, to some extent, it has to do with the financial collapse, the collapse of the bank - it hasn't been 12 years since, even more? - and this is some kind of an inheritance of it. Then you must wonder how long we will be stuck in the wood of that inheritance. But it is true that at that time some financial companies went too far, borrowing far beyond what people, especially in the United States, poor people in the United States, could pay. What, though, is the right thing to do when a business behaves in such an irresponsible manner? Is it not true, then, that they are inclined to fall apart because of not being careful? Of course, that's what we were trying to do here in Iceland by letting the taxpayers not be responsible for undefeated behavior of financial companies. Is it not the best way to put a business, just as the public take responsibility for their actions? I got it. I got it. The speaker of this case, the most powerful of all. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son to see if we should not change this matter. We haven't discussed this very much in the Committee, rather than many other complex issues. It flows into this committee of ours on an assembly basis for some system thing that I don't think any senators understand, and our colleagues here at the council may have everything to do with putting themselves in for us. But this is not a good development. It has been considered to be a fundamental principle in legalization, or it was in the past in simpler times, so to speak, but perhaps a time more rationalistic in various ways, that law should be understandable, that all the people should be able to understand what was lawful and what was forbidden. But now we're putting up an endless package of incomprehensible laws, incomprehensible to the senators putting these laws into them, much less for the common people who don't work to fit in with them. This is bad evolution. However, the issue that we now discuss is relatively understandable, I feel, and may not require a long discussion. I kind of think it's pretty clear that there's no need for the government to decide what kind of contracts people can do with loan agencies. Instead, laws should be put that will increase the potential for earning people in Iceland to own their own housing, as well as cars or cars, although the present government seems to be infuriated by all the traffic of the family car.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u154	V.E.G. President. I think I'm compelled to respond here, even if you can hardly call it an answer. Because of what? paritaprevir I would like to use this opportunity to commend Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnul, as well. I am very happy that the Central Party means freedom, perhaps more than he has done before. You're right. A senator says, the problem is that in this house, we are very often limiting people's freedom from our views, how we feel people should behave. We've gone way too far, we're absolutely right, and we're doing this because we want people to know. But in this case, we are burned. We will see how such loans can get out of hand, and not just Iceland, but the whole world. The question is, is this bill going too far? I'm not quite sure about that. It is largely suggested that there are so many public interests that the stability of the financial markets is maintained. But are we going too far? That may well be so. Are we limiting our freedom too much? The thought of this, huh? A senator is that if this freedom gets out of control here, it will not only harm the financial company and loans but the whole community. It's in those cases that I can accept some kind of limitations. But we are always doing this without such interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u155	Mr. President. Yes, you wonder if we are going too far on this matter. I tend to, especially in view of what we've been discussing here. There is already a strong limit on the ability of people to make a home. It was a long policy for the Independence Party here in Iceland to give everyone the opportunity to have their own home and to build their own property. But now the percentage of people with their own housing has been shrinking, and it may not be strange when the system has become the means of paying more rent than they have to pay on loans to build up property. When the situation is, then, what is the need for intervention on the part of the State in order to prevent further possibilities, especially those of the income, from buying property and building up property? I just reiterate what I said before, I think we should rather introduce encouraging laws, encouraging in the sense that all Icelanders have a chance and a chance to build property.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u156	V.E.G. President. Such concerns are quite realistic. paritaprevir Sigmur Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the speculation that we may be going too far. There is no reason why we need not worry so much. We're still in a bit of a different community. When I was young, men only worked more if they needed to. They finished it. Even in the 1980's, when inflation was 100%, it was over. At that time, they had only 100% more work. But that reality is no longer happening to people in the same way before, at least not mentally. It's called the present, which is a word that really bothers me. There may be evidence to support this, and I would be quite prepared to discuss it further on the committee, whether this is too far along and whether economic stability may be supported, some of the nation's serious interests, if we walk any less. I'm not sure. But this is the opinion of experts that this is so that instability could develop in the financial system that could harm all of us. It's on the grounds that I agree with this. But I agree over again that in many other matters, we go so far as to the point that it damages much of the individual freedom and freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u157	Mr. President. Hv. A senator named today, who, of course, is concerned about various aspects of our life. Today's a bitch. But I got it. To avoid giving up in the fight for something that has proved its value for years and even years, these fundamental values that have proved beneficial to us. In another recent discussion, there were some disturbing talks in which even the people were slying laziness and putting on the phenomenon Western work ethic or Protestant work ethic, something that has proved to be extraordinary for the Icelanders, not least, invaluable in building up a community for centuries and achieving incredible results. All too many have stopped respecting these fundamental values, the things that have been best for us. But, hey. Níelsson Do not give up in the fight. Hv. A senator must continue the fight for freedom and other fundamental values that have built up this society and that have proved successful. There are many difficult times when it comes to presenting an understandable political bitch, explaining what looks up and down, but what. Níelsson Do not give up in your efforts to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u158	A respectable president. We're here on the Committee's opinion of the bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the laws on personal preservation and the processing of personal information, education and culture. The bill suggests that there are changes in the laws under the topic of Education and Culture to explain further the sources of the institutions under the Ministry for the implementation of personal information in line with the requirements of personal protection and the implementation of personal information, particularly on the clarity of laws allowing the implementation of sensitive personal information. The review of the committee included on the background of high school, elementary school, and media sources. In paragraph 1, paragraph 5 of paragraph 1. The bill considers the sources of high school to produce personal information, including in relation to student-friendly events according to Article 39. Law of High School, No. 92/2008. A paper with the bill shows around 5. ... thata schoolmaster is authorized to work with information relating to a student partner's activities. The majority of the rights to being a responsible candidate is generally the agency that makes decisions on the purpose and method of processing rather than on individual employees to create a school champion. The above views are also presented in the Peritoneal Protection of the bill. Clearly, then, the responsibility is for high school, not for a schoolmaster, as one report puts it. As regards media sources for the implementation of personal information, to the extent that it is necessary to consider the issues established by the committee when fulfilling its role in the law. The Commission is permitted to produce sensitive personal information on health, sexual orientation, and sexual behavior as a result of the complaint coming from the media violations against the basic rights of individuals on privacy and other human rights. The majority of the reasons are that this article does not contain open access to a media committee for the processing of the above personal information but, in cases, only when it receives complaints about the above human rights violations of the media. This article includes the permission of a media committee to accept such complaints and save the information mentioned above in a file. Most of the money makes changes in both nursery and elementary school and their sources. In 1st. The bill discusses the permission of preschool, school, and other agencies who have legal roles under the law on preschool, No. 90/2008, for the creative and the media of personal information. This article does not allow for legitimate sharing of data with us for a vacation home, as the city of Reykjavík specifically points out. A vacation home is a children's leisure area, as it is defined in 33 C.E. a High School song, No. 91/2008. The more part of the claim is that when a child moves from high school to a middle school and stays in a vacation home, there may be a need for communication of personal information in order to ensure that a sharing in school services is needed, as such communication is necessary in order for these persons to function. The majority suggest changes in the material. In Comb 4. The bill discusses the sources of basic schools, schools, and other persons who have legal roles under the law on elementary school, No. 91/2008, development, creation and the communication of personal information, etc. This article does not require legitimate sharing of data to high school. The more part of it is important to believe that at the end of primary school, elementary schools will be required to offer themselves to students, parents, or guardians in the sense of child - law sharing information about students who have been underpriests or acquired on the basis of this paper to high school. Basic schools should offer an earlier understanding, but the prescientization between these two school ladders is avoided by student, parent, and guardian. This general requirement is not intended to affect the 2 mg per protocol. Twenty-seven. The law of the law, in which testimony is given to the transfer of students from school to grade in high school, is permitted, but includes other information, e.g. Based on expert management. This should be in accordance with the personal protection and processing of personal information. The majority suggest changes in the material. Other changes indicated by the majority of the element are technical and not intended to affect the subject of the bill and can be found on the roof. 1609.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u159	Mr. President. I recommend here the Committee's list of changes made from a greater part of the employment board on a bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65/2003, and Landsnets Institutes hf, No. 75/2004 (presidents of income markets, electrical security, etc.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s The committee has discussed the matter and has brought a number to him, nearly 40 persons before the committee, and 18 reviews were received on the subject. The bill suggests changes in the electricity laws that turn even. to the target of and definition of electrical security, streamlined warrants for the implementation of economics requirements for the Landsnet and dispersal sectors, including in relation to the quality and availability of electrical energy, the definition of operating costs related to income sentences, perspective and monitoring of dispersible investment programmes, sales of system services, overlooking and monitoring of spare resources, support of the energy supply monitoring and change in Landsnet holdings as well as regulations for those who have the rights and duties of government citizens. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. The committee has discussed the matter and discussed with a number of visitors who have the nature of the situation in accordance with the different views of the changes proposed by a bill. Electrical law was modified in 2011, and basic changes were made in terms of the sentences of the Landsnet and the diffuser market. Energy agencies are designed to set Landsnet and diffuse income limits because of the costs of transport and distribution of electricity, which control the registrations of these enterprises. In view of experience, a variety of baits are now being tailored to the operation of electronic energy. It is important that the box on income sentences is clear and efficient, especially when it comes to Iceland's competitiveness in the energy market with the aim of promoting investments in innovation here on earth. As shown in a bill report, the changes proposed in the bill are based on extensive diagnostic work as well as a way to communicate in the product of bill making. In the treatment of the matter, the committee has guided the fact that society is all dependent on the availability of reliable electricity. The need for sustainable development and the availability of energy for the future in a time in which society is becoming increasingly dependent on technology than the natural forces have recently reminded us of the importance of electronic energy security, whether it comes to employment, homes, communication, or transport. We are quoting the article in the Adventist storm of December 2019, which created a serious situation in many parts of the north. Here's a line on the economy requirement and an assessment of the effect on the income limit. According to electricity law, the Power Department has the responsibility to set Landsnet and diffuse income limits because of the costs of transport and distribution of electricity. Landsnets and distribution agencies will have its grading limits. Factors are aimed at promoting economic efficiency and efficiency within the income period and in the electricity law of energy show that the aims of operating efficiency are not met by the Energy Agency being allowed to set Landsnet and diffuse economics requirements for a new income market period. As shown in the bill, experience in recent years has been that it is actually technically impossible to comply with the current system of instruments for the sentences of economy, where there is a twice - making system that is within a narrow period of time. Therefore, the bill suggests changes in the effectiveness, clarity and simplicity of the source of the Energy Agency for the implementation of the economy in the designated setting. The Commission requested a government memo on the effect of the changes proposed to Article 12 and 17. Electrical laws require the balance of the transport company's income and the diffuser. In a memo performed by the Power Commission on the request of the Ministry, it is noted that the changes in the sentence-separated bill and the level of revenue should generally result in a decrease in income limits. In general, the change in law should result in greater efficiency and longer-term reduction of user costs, as well as an increased effectiveness in the dispersible and transport companies. It is noted in the memo that it merely assesses the effects of changes in electricity laws, not changes in Regulation No. 192/2016, which was also introduced by the government's consultation puzzle in February 2021, along with drafting the bill. According to the Ministry, changes in this Regulation are being made in agreement with stakeholders and this work is expected to be completed in the fall. This will be followed by a section on the monitoring of the Energy Agency with an investment plan for the dispersible hosts. In the 10th. The bill is suggested to include a new article, Article 16. a, which includes the up-to-date that the Power Institute will be authorized to monitor public investment programmes. Such a record for the Agency already exists in the law due to Landsnet investment schemes via a system plan, such as Article 9. a, but not for dispersible hosts. Investment in the distribution system of electricity should be based on the practical investment programme provided by the public host at least every two years. The energy agency is allowed to request a zoom-in prior to its appearance, but it is not subject to the Agency's approval. The Committee expressed differences in opinions about the increased sources of the Energy Agency. On the one hand, the change was considered positive because it prevented the so - called gold-coated or overinvestment of the system and gave the Power Institute an opportunity to have a better view of the distribution plans. However, it was found that the change may be burdensome because it works against efficiency targets and showed little understanding of the nature of distribution activities. It was concluded that there was no regard for how investments could depend on the development and structure of rural communities, which require short notice. Additional evidence of overinvestment is required, as well as an explanation for the concept of transparency in this context, i.e. clear investment schedule. The greater part of the report on the bill shows that in the plan, estimated investments for the next five to ten years should be expressed, focusing on key distribution services necessary according to the objectives and duties of the dispersible hosts. The majority of it shows that it understands the perspective of the diffuser but feels that it is normal, taking into consideration attitudes about the electrical security and the delivery of electrical energy, there is a certain confidence in the availability of investments in the distribution system for which the transport system is excluded. By providing investment plans for the Power Institute, the overview of the distribution system not only needs to be maintained but also the proposed structure which is an important factor for development and employment development in the relevant network. In addition, it should be repeated that it is the source of the Power Agency but not an obligation but it was concluded that instead of allowing the Power Institute to call for information on the public investments and that the Agency would be subject to it. The more part points to the fact that the bill shows that it does not have to go that far to achieve the goal of the bill, so it is with a means to maintain a moderate measure of control. So here's a section on the possession of the transport company, Landsnets hf. "B" Unit 4. The bill is suggested that the transport company be directly owned by the Icelandic government and/or rural units on a scale of 1. Section 8. The law of the law shall be of the majority share of the state, community and/or enterprise owned by these parties. Just as the bar was traced with the bill, the corresponding change in electricity law was adopted in 2011 and was due to be implemented in 2015, which was dropped by 2011 by new laws of change. At the same time, there's 18. The bill suggested stipulation of 2nd issue. Section 4. Law on Landsnet Corp, No. 75/2004, should be removed, but it requires that the buyers of the stocks be solely owners of the transport workers falling below the 6th fraction of Article 3. Electrical layer. The above changes will be carried out on July 1, 2022. According to point two. legislation on the establishment of Landsnets Corp. The role of the company is to implement electrical transport and system management according to Article III. the section of the electrical layer. It is therefore forbidden to engage in activities other than those necessary to carry out their duties under electric or other laws. Since January 1, 2005, the organisation has been appointed to operate with transport workers below the 6th fraction of Article 3. Electrical layer. By the taking of the law on the establishment of Landsnet Corp. In June 2004, authorities were allowed to sell shares to the transport workers on certain conditions. Shareholders at the end of 2020 were calculated according to the annual account of Landsnet Corp.: Conactivation with 64.73% share, Rark ohf. With 22.51%, Vista Reykjavík with 6.78% and Power Company West at 5.98%. The more part feels positive that we are now working to complete the proposed change for a decade ago with reference to a more clear perspective on separation between competitiveness and basic energy markets. As shown in a bill report, the change is made with a competitive point in mind, but it was considered inappropriate for the transport of electricity and system management to be owned by energy companies and diffusers. This article will discuss key users and high users, who have been greatly discussed. Comments to the Committee encouraged it to consider identifying intermediate users in electronic law with reference to the wide range between major users (those used within three years in one place at least). 80 GWst or 10 MWs a year) and general users. The majority agree that it is necessary to consider how this arrangement can be changed and to refer to the greater part of the committee as to what became the law of No. 146/2020, the change in the law on the equation of electricity distribution costs, no. 98/2004. It said that the Ministry is working on a study of ways to reduce the clear targets of electricity law in the definition of a large user with 10 MW. The Ministry reports that this work is still being done, both by the Ministry and by the Landsnet, hiding and hiding. in particular a review of the construction of registrations, including ideas on intermediate users and increased step distinctions. The goal is to complete that work by the end of the year. Here is a section that relates to the adjustment of the majority of the employment committee, and here is a chapter on the term electrical security and the aim of electronic energy laws. By means of the bill, it is suggested that the nuclear - power sector be identified as one of the goals of the law. It is suggested that the term is viewed in a larger context than that of the electricity system itself, at present. In addition, the term is suggested to be defined as follows paragraph 1. The bill: • Power security: Electrical security means that users have access to electrical energy when needed, taking into consideration local government policies at any given time and the definition of authenticity and quality. The guidelines for adequate power security must be further developed and clarified in the Regulation set by the secretary. Thus, when handling the case for the Commission, it was wondered whether the definition was sufficiently clear and whether the concept should be better defined in law texts rather than further expanded into Regulation as suggested in the bill. The report on the bill shows that for the implementation of the definition, the reference is based on a indication from a work group report on the energy security market in total electricity market from August 2020. The majority point out that it said that the supply of electricity was not extended beyond the next five years. It is important to explain how to determine the limit of adequate electrical safety, i.e. a steady-state between long-term supply and demand. Therefore, the law will require a baseline assessment of the limit, but further implementation will be carried out in accordance with Regulation. In this context, the greater part shows that the above wording in the provision provides a degree of flexibility, while the primary objective is that users have access to electricity when needed, with defined dependability and quality. The bill shows that the aims for access to electricity when needed are comparable to the targets of energy policy for Iceland to 2050 that the demand for a community is always met. The extensive interference on the transport and distribution systems of electricity in December 2019 shows the importance of increasing the delivery security of electricity, and particularly in less energy-efficient areas such as Western and Northern Western West. The same is true in areas where natural rains are needed, such as earthquakes and volcanic eruptions of the Smokey Peninsula this year. Building with regard to the above points is one factor in understanding government policy on the building of electricity transport systems, No. 26/148, which we agreed to, if I recall correctly, at the council three years ago, in 2018. The more part feels that with reference to the above, it can be made clear that electronic security also refers to access to electrical energy, where needed, and suggests a change in its content. The majority also underscores that if the bill is accepted, the same limit will apply when interpreting the power layer's instructions that users have access to electricity when needed and where needed. Therefore, it is defined as being in line with local government policies at any given time, which include: ritonavir. Then the majority point out that in a report on long-term energy policy and implementation, the transport, industrial, and innovation ministers will be requested on deck. 894 at the current legislation board, says that electrical protection in electricity law should be defined. The determination of the shock-resistant system and its objectives for distributed production and how it supports energy security targets, including natural disasters, should be set. Strategies for adequate transport between parts of the country and electrical energy deliverability should also be set. In view of the above, the majority of the objects are considered to be natural that when it comes to implementing the term electrical protection in the Regulation, including the following steps: look to the standards specified in the energy policy Action Programme. It is suggested that the guidelines for the third verse 1, paragraph 1. The law states that consumer awareness should be on the market. The consumer group pointed out that neither in the bill nor in the report shows how the increased sense of consumers is guaranteed nor who is responsible for it. The organization needs to specify which party is responsible for carrying out that goal and how it should be done. The majority agree with the point of view and direct it to the Ministry to expand it in Regulation. This will give you a section on the personnel of the transport company or the c- team 4.g. In Comb 4. The bill is suggested to 6th. Section 8. electronic laws will be changed in that they state that the management and staff of the transport company, which, according to their specific risk assessment, perform the tasks needed to ensure that the non-distraction of the transport system should not go to strike or participate in a strike. The risk assessment should be reviewed on a regular basis and confirmed by the Power Institute. While enforcing regulations require that the executives and staff of a shipping company have the rights and duties of the state officials, the report states that they do not have the right to strike according to the law on the function of public employees, No. 33/1115. ASI reports that support this change in the arrangement but that it is critical of the shipping company, i.e. The employment and public authorities, the Power Institute, are committed to verify the risk assessment without the introduction of the relevant trade union, including with reference to the Social Freedom Protocol of the Constitution and to the international agreements of Iceland. It is suggested that the arrangement be changed to take into account the laws on government labour agreements, No. 94/1986, as well as union law, No. 80/1938, as well as a law on working in rural areas where there is no cause for strike, No. 129/2020. If there's a disagreement, it's permitted to be committed to socialization. The majority of the data shows that the function of the transport company, which has a legal role in the transport and system management of electricity, is one of the basiss of society, and electronic security is an unbreakable link in national security. It is undisputed how important it is for the public interest that the transport company's activities are not lost, and therefore the majority feel that the work within the transport company is not to be sure of which work is closer to the strike warrant than in the report with the bill is referred to as certain uncertainty. The majority also stress that such changes are made in the greatest agreement with all concerned persons and suggest a change in the changing risk management arrangements with the introduction of appropriate trade unions. In addition, the greater part suggests that the transport company should be committed to making a risk assessment with the arrival of an appropriate trade partner within three months of the law's validation. In view of their social importance, it was then stated to the committee that it was normal to set a comparable provision for distribution plants. In view of the above, the importance of electricity in connection with the public good and national security, the greater part believes that it is a valid view to be considered correctly. Backup was defined as being discussed and expressed in the majority aluminium of the Committee. It's the 3rd count, pars. The bill is suggested to add Article 3. A word of the law to define the concept of backup. The principle is: A product that replaces a force that is not available because of malfunctions, the lack of transport capacity, the lack of energy, or other causes. A power to maintain a stable system frequency must be accessed by the administrator. At the same time, there's 14. suggest adding a new paragraph to Article 24. The Act where Power Institute will be authorized to ensure adequate reserve is available to cope with the effects of the electrical power system and to have the perspective and monitoring of the available spare power of electricity in the country. The implementation of the Regulation, including the exchange of costs between the Landsnet and the dispersible countries, will be considered in more detail. The reviews and comments given to the definition of the term Presidency made it important that the definition was as clearly defined, especially by reference to an energy agency being committed to an increased monitoring there, but similar comments were also made when the bill was proposed in consultation. There was a proposal from the Council of Advisory Directors within Union that the definition would be divided between reserves in the standard sense of that word, i.e. Reservation in reserve power stations and a power source part of the daily control of transport and electrical systems, i.e. A controlled reserve. Please refer to the Regulation on the implementation of electronic laws, No. 140/2005, in between. It's number 24. The Regulation is the term a backup power station defined as activation which only temporarily works power because of failure or interference in the system on the request of an administrator. The majority consider positive that the definition of backup concept is added to the laws and duties of the Energy Agency, transport companies and diffusers rather clarified in this context, which is consistent with the emphasis on energy policy and the action programme based on it. The majority also agree with the indication that the term "resist" can be further explained by a distinction between the backup power of the backup posts, which is not controlled by a administrator and a controlled reserve, as per a report. So with reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the definition of a backup term will be divided into two teams, i.e. Control of backup power and backup power in reserve stations that are not controlled by system administrators. The importance of subsection's clear definition, referred to Article 3 paragraph 1. Section 4. The law says the version of activation entitled by Article 3. The bill is suggested not to require backup power licenses that are responsible solely for obtaining power for their own uses due to the failures, the lack of transport capacity, the lack of energy, or other factors, i.e. is not connected to the transport system. It is noted that manna should not be equal to the activation license for electricity processing as determined by II. section of the law and of the reserves which are temporarily linked to the transport or distribution systems of electricity from the cars or maintenance. Then there's a section to re-use energy, a source to use and sell grates. One of the aims of the energy policy is to find solutions that work to improve sustainable use of energy resources, which includes the maximal efficiency of energy. The Commission specifically discussed the ways that are capable of contributing to the increased efficiency of energy, including The use of particulate matter, i.e. energy releases in the form of heat during industrial production. For the Committee it was found that the waste management sector is nearly devoid of energy resources in this country, but recovery of energy turns toward responsible efficiency, minimisation of waste management and mitigation of the value of common resources. On the other hand, the Icelandic law environment does not directly predict the recycling of energy. It can be assumed that many major users of electricity in this country would produce a game that could be used for other functions, e.g. Aluminum, iron, silica, and power factories. An example of an opportunity for energy recovery is found at Elkem Iceland's silica plant on Grundartanga, which produces some 110 MWs of heat that are not new today. Energy efficiency would allow up to 253/430 MW turbins and/or up to 70 MW of the heat supply system for heating or thermal activities e.g. The fields of biotechnology. The commission then noted that the key to building a house - to - house warmer could be used by the remotest team to replace the most expensive electric heat that can be used when it comes to the house - to - house warming. Thus, in view of the greater part, the use of glattering is also important based on localities. The majority of them believe that it is important to have permission in the laws of large users' homes, specific criteria filled, to use and sell the energy that is released from its own manufacturing processes, and other sources to be wasted (gloss). Thus, the majority suggest that, after consultation with the Ministry, the change in the content of the V section of electrical law. It will be added to a law that states that big users will be allowed to apply for access to the Power Agency to use and continue to sell energy that is released in the form of heat from their own manufacturing processes and hardware that use energy. 19th degree. The law states the duties of electrical companies. Whether sold as electrical energy or heat, a big - game business may be considered a more narrower sense of that word and is obliged to distinguish such products from other activities, as described at 2 mg. Twenty-niner. The law. The majority of the items are considered necessary for further implementation of the waste materials in the Regulation and suggest that the specific requirements for this product be set out in the regulations provided. And there will be look to the time limit on such permission if the gaming radiation is associated with e.g. Temporaryized activity. The majority claim that this warrant is solely for the use and sale of the heat produced from its own manufacturing processes. It is not the general authority of large users to retail or forward the energy they buy, but it is based on agreements between nuclear power traders and electrical fuel buyers. In addition, the greater part points out that it is desirable to consider whether other laws need to be changed to achieve the target, specifically pointing to the assessment of environmental impacts and the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programmes. Then you will find a direct connection and a discount from a transfer fee. Five and six. Section 12. a Electrical law required direct connections of the user when activation and discounting a transfer file in certain cases. The committee expressed the view that the discount allowed to be explained more fully to people of both major uses and to other users. There was a view that transfuse could be cleared to give a discount so that the discount could reach up to 100%, i.e. provide a minimum of payment for certain conditions, including that the function is fully dependent on energy from activation. Such discounts could make a difference as to whether innovation companies, who see the benefit in connection with geologic activation, and who do not have to connect with the transport network, choose here on land or abroad. The majority of the data shows that electricity laws are based on principles on right and should be activated and user access systems to transport or distribution systems of electrical energy, equal to parties, and that the linking of new parties to the system should not result in an increased cost to other users. Therefore, a reference to a return rate, in cases where a user is associated with an activation related to the transport system, as in general, is based on 5 and 6 mg. Section 12. a There is a percentage where the person enjoys backup power through activation of the transport system, even when activation expires. The user has therefore paid part of the transport fee on the basis that it should be involved in the costs of the main transport system and its management, where the activation is connected and already at large because of the network's connection. However, the majority state that several specialities may be present for those users who are direct-related geodynamic activation and are dependent on receiving other products from activation other than electricity, and who do not have reserves through the transport system, even if activation falls out. Under current legislation, it is permitted to provide such organisations with an increase in the rate of transport unless clearly clear. According to the Ministry, this warrant has not been implemented. I can't go over all considered things. There's only one at the end, this is a big, big case, and it's a future thing, especially with connection to activations and use of heat. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of things to do. Under this opinion, and the changes you can see in the opinion of the committee, write why. þingmaður Lilja Rafney Magnúsdótttir, Director of Trausti Friiðbert Njáll, Halla Signý Kristjánnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friurksson og Haraldur Benedictsson. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u160	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Friðbertsson for his story in this matter. It's a big deal, as mentioned. I have to say, at times, I felt as if I were there listening to my history of the opinion because it somehow doesn't cover all the factors involved in this big matter. It's basically very good stuff. It's a big deal, and it shows a lot of things that have to be addressed because the energy situation in Iceland is one of the biggest internationals in Iceland. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Why did we need to end this matter in the spring? Why could it not be sprinkled with salt and taken back up again, doing it better in late stages or starting with it sooner, bringing it in earlier? Then we could have done it properly, and I could believe that in my part, we would have been absolutely crystal clear on the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u161	Mr. President. I think we're just working this case with a tremendous amount of credit. I've put a lot of work into it. There have been 38 individuals, 18 reviews. We took the matter up at a number of committee meetings. It doesn't mean always putting everything off here. This is an important matter: we are talking about innovation in the country. We're talking power security in the country. There's a company waiting for us to start this process. And what turns to direct connections and gypsy are novels, clearly great novelties, and they're waiting for this. We're sponsoring a nation's industry, creating a new industry. We're actually speaking into climate issues, and this can become a big part of our approach to climate. There we have a tremendous opportunity to use used used resources, especially in the global geothermal activations in Iceland that have been malused up to this point. In fact, it's amazing that geothermal activations, which have been in use in Iceland for a very long, decades, have not been created to create the legislation in Iceland that can be used to exploit the resource currents that are useless, which can create this community with a lot of income and clearly increase the competitiveness of Iceland and Icelandic employment and further increase the diversity of the nation's commercial life. At the moment that we are living in right now - I believe that over the next 203/430 years there is an enormous opportunity, and that is what we are creating here with these legislation; the possibility of using these efficient resource streams, can create society and us, who live a great deal of value and build up a working life and a new kind of employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u162	V.E.G. President. We agree absolutely that this is a big and important matter. It's a fundamental matter of our future here in Iceland and even climate, as the senator introduced it. But my question was, as mentioned in the senator's talk, on matters of opinion that may not have been brought to earth on this job, whether they could not have been done so much better. And as for the number of meetings where this case was discussed, I don't remember that there was an enormous number, they found. There were a lot of reviews, but I didn't experience the complete development of the committee. We're sitting in the smaller part, me and him. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, who is here with minor opinion, so we're not too busy finishing this case as much as most of it can. But I say the matter had to come in earlier and work much better. I don't understand why it wasn't to be done, why not take much more time on it, because we agree that this is a very big deal about our future, this big fix that would have had to be done much better. There are quite a number of things that were brought on the earth, but there are also considerable numbers, such as the senator mentioned in his talk, which would have required more time for better work. That's what I'm pointing at in this answer to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u163	Mr. President. This is precisely stated in the Commission's opinion from a large part of the employment committee who came before the committee. So I can just read it here so that people can see the scope of the discussion that was being discussed. That's all we're gonna do. It has been discussed by the Ingvi of Pétursson Montsson of the atvinnuvega Ministry, Silja Rán Ólafsdóttir of the Power Institute, Kristján Elsa Guðjón María Jón Jónsson Bragason the Board of Ólafsson Rögnvaldsdóttir Karlsson Björg Halldór, Hreinsson Þorgeirsson of the Valgerður Karlsson, Þrándur Þórður Bjarni Freyr, and Íris Lind Sæmundsdóttir of the United Kingdom, Snæbjarnarson, and ÞorleikssonEinarsson from the Undjódarmímíktir. Then I can discuss the matter with you. It's just not true that there was not much consultation with the speakers and visitors who came before the committee in this case. This matter has been handled in a material way. However, it is stated in the committee that there is a big issue of opinion in this case that needs to be taken into consideration. No 100% reconciliation can be made because what is discussed in this case differs in interests. Sometimes it is just a matter of making decisions about how to handle matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u164	Mr. President. I'm here recommending the opinion of the less part of the employment committee on this case, which is a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, No. 65/2003, and Landsnets Institutes hf, No. 75/2004. Mr. President. It's been heard a couple of times. This is certainly a very big case, but it was late. It's done in a hurry. This has not been shown to be an urgent matter. This has not been shown that it is necessary to handle it in a relatively short time, now in the spring council, instead of taking the time to meditate carefully on some of the facts in it. This case is characterized by a lot of complications, there are engineering complications, there are financial complications, and the majority prefer to take it out in a sort of rush here. It doesn't matter what self-designment is served on the side of the horse. The speaker of the case, this does not change the fact that this case had to be won much better and should, of course, have been handled accordingly. A professional health committee would be the only one. There are no such political opinions in it, these are the most technical topics that are here, but the majority of them are unable to get one of the smaller representatives with their own opinion. Let's talk about it. As with the opinion of the greater part, a prominent lays constant support for the incompleteness of this case and the completeness of its claim. I can give you a few examples, as we do in the opinion of my things. That opinion includes a list of just a few of the unsatisfactory factors. This list is not exhaustive in the opinion of the minority. Rather, it is a judicial committee to help us determine what the matter really is. It is noted, Mr. President, that it is a failure to properly define the term electrical security, as is attributed to the greater part and in the detailed speech of the large part. A pilot. This is in spite of the clear indication that such action is to be done in the law, as the lesser part feels the right thing to do. The smaller section also believes that too early the bill is started in view of the fact that it is working on a very important subject which is an alteration in the Regulation No. 129/2016, the evaluation of a key financial concept. It is the so - called roadside expenses. It involves things very important to the business of these companies and their dealings with the authorities. So I'll continue to give a few examples, then it's just that the Power Agency will be granted permission to monitor dispersal investment programmes and we don't think that it has been adequately taken in the indications on this subject. This list could be kept much longer, Mr. President. In the above respect, as we put it in the poll, the lesser part suggests that the case will be referred to the government, Mr. President. That's where this case belongs. It's just to win this case more simply and to finish whatever subjects are there. This is to form a reference in the opinion of more parts and in the speech of both. An authority says there are some things that need attention. As a result, members of the committees that are still in progress and have a basic translation for the case. It is noted that matters that would have to be handled clearly in the Law but that are referred to a minister so that he should have these points in the Regulation. We're the ones who ship the smaller parts, we're the ones. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, mentioned earlier, believes that this is an example of a matter that is responsible for the greater part. It is the responsibility of the greater part, Mr. President, that when it comes to fundamental issues that have a fundamental basis for the nation's economic and employment life, such as the electricity business, we're talking about electricity laws, it's the responsibility of a greater part of the effort each to be done in a careful way and not left behind a lot of opinions. I reiterate that it would have been right to press this case, and that is why it is up to us that the bill should be referred to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u165	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna come up here and talk about this whole thing about electrical law. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleustafsson was reviewing a minority opinion that we both signed. More factors could have been addressed and included in the talk of the greater part - the speaker. paritaprevir The remains of the Njáll of Trausti, the son of Friðbertsson, stated that there were things that could have taken more time. I'd like to say here that our Icelandic electricity is one of our basic issues in order to have a good and successful life in Iceland. This is a very big case, I would say one of the equality issues involved in serving people in the country. In the years, the rural region has rather closed down in the delivery security of electricity, parts such as North Eastland. paritaprevir New Trausti Friðbertsson is already a member of Congress, and then the northwest country where the man standing here is a senator. In fact, the senator's speech made it clear that many things are lacking. The bad weather here was mentioned in the winter of 2019 C.E., and it produced electricity in many parts of the North and West. Then there were things that would have been more successful in the delivery of electrical energy that, in my opinion, could have been taken in a long time ago, e.g. Just over-reaching uplinks, old cables in rural areas and other such, which had actually been delayed for too long. I'd like to see a good look at it in this case. It speaks of self-sustaining and supply safety, which is very good, but it might have made the landing clearer. I'll take only the positive points that are there, such as. The emissions of major users, such as Elkem of Gruntans and others who have been talking for many years of using energy from this industry for their own use in any form, either electrical energy or heat, or so on. They're being dealt with in a positive way. It's been waiting a while. It is then the establishment of the Landsnet, that it will be owned by a state and a community. That's a good thing. There are many good things there, but it would also have been possible to end the matter in a more subtle way. Because I mention Vestfjord, we've presented a case involving the ring connection between electricity in the Westlands at the time. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason is a pilot. It is urgent that the West receive some kind of electronic reform. The security on their electrical power is backup stations. We know that the activation planned for the West was postponed by environmental opinions, very sad that this would happen, but hopefully soon it will be taken up. These situations should be corrected by taking sufficient measures. I would have felt that we would have been more dignified if we had taken a handsome look at these matters. This made me want to finish my talk by saying, "It's a good thing. This is a matter that could have been taken deeper into, more time for it, and much earlier would have been needed. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun, the son of Izz, did not fully understand why these provisions were needed before all of them were finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u166	Mr. President. I just wanted to say something. I disagree that the matter is badly tore up and that it is not a work for the Committee. There's been a lot of work to be done on the case, but I think that ten-paged thought to be the greater part of the employment committee shows that much work has been put into it during the past few months. I just wanted to come up here and point out and say that electricity is an essential force based on Iceland in the big movie. No one in the world is producing more electrical energy on every human child and here. We produce one of 56 MWs per year, twice as many as the rest of Norway, the country. The Third and Fourth Reichs are producing about 25 to 30% of what is produced here. This is a fundamental prerequisite for the nation's competitiveness in all its contexts. So I'd like to come in and I'd agree that, of course, one would have liked, as with the network and their structure, that it had come sooner to us that we had laid a string. However, after a storm of 1991 and 1995, a major effort was made to develop cables in the land, especially in the Rark area, so that by now 70% of the most difficult part of the system, as defined in 1995, has now come into lines in the earth. That is why it is also so important to remember what had actually happened in December 2019 if it had not been worked out for 30 years, 35 years, to bring all of this down. The plan was that it would be completed in 2035. This is a fast process. This is followed by the 2019 December weather, and it is said that most of this will be completed by the end of 2025 C.E. I agree with that. A U.S. senator is a fundamental security case, a national security case, and a general basis for the competition of the country that we live here for the ideals that we live in today that are with the world's best.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u167	V.E.G. President. We agree very often, me and what. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, we are very amateurs of electricity in our midst of beloved country. This suggestion, or review, that we produce this much on every human being, is a cause of joy and shows that we stand and that we also have natural opportunities of energy to produce electricity. However, I have to say that we have not been successful in ensuring the delivery security of electricity, as if it had been possible for us to have done some years ago. All of a sudden, I think of three phases of electricity that are already far off, but when I was a young electrician a long time ago, it was said that it was about to fall into a house or fall into action. But for some reason, probably because they had recently one-phase lines around the country, and they were talked about using them and letting them run out of time, and that's why farmers, especially those who were dependent on motors, three phase motors, needed to change them and make all kinds of equipment to enjoy them. This is something I didn't realize at the time. It's been going the right way, but what I want to say is that I think it's been way too slow because we've had enough time and we've been willing to finish this before to strengthen our country's settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u168	Mr. President. I can readily agree with the viewpoints. A senator tore up the matter. Of course, one would've wanted to see it happen sooner. But things have been done and have been very intense now since the December 2019. Then Richard had a big campaign last summer, and there's a lot going on right now. I just wanted to get into what we have, which is a little bit put into the discussion, and it's really important to the future of the green industry in Iceland, to use the green energy we have, the resources from the activations, to the climate. It's a huge, important thing, and there's tremendous possibilities, and I don't think we should ever underestimate them, because I think in the climate, it's actually the market law that will help us most. This is a much bigger issue than the fact that all Iceland's cars are going to be running on electricity, which I'm interested in, and I really want to use domestic energy, thus saving over 30 to 40 billion shopping in oil a year, that's the environment. But what we're dealing with here is the possibilities of green energy, the fourth industrial revolution. The fourth industrial revolution is based on green energy and powerful communications, and what other country has as much potential as we have? When I was on the energy policy committee, there were three things that I emphasized most: the promoting of electrical energy transport systems, our large system that was badly damaged by December 2019. That was the first time we saw serious malfunctions in connection with it. It is the competitiveness of the country and, in a certain way, the cohesive winds are not everywhere but, rather, in controlled areas, playing against the hydropower in the country. It is green policy, and it is the real contribution of the Icelandic nation and society into climates to make use of it together in the big context. That's where we have all the big possibilities. This bill is just part of an introduction into all that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u169	Mr. President. I just want to use my second speech in return to agree completely with it with the question. Friðbertsson We've been doing a lot of good, but I think it's been too slow, and the senator agrees completely. But we have great prospects for the future, the future is bright. But we could have done better, and I hear we agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u170	You can always do better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u171	Yes, you can always do better. But because I'm in a position of government, I'm also going to have to put on more of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u172	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the package travel laws and the interconnected travel arrangements. The committee received a number of visitors. The bill suggests the establishment of a new fund, a travel insurance fund, which is responsible for the interest of tourists who have purchased a package trip or a synthetic travel arrangement that is not carried out in accordance with a contract made by unskilled or bankruptcy by the seller. Instead of the insurance system that has been run mostly unchanged for decades, the fund becomes a self - possession agency. The work will be funded by insurance agencies that sell packages and synthetic travel options and are permitted under travel law, on the other hand, by billing and on the other hand, by making guarantees such as this. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. It was usually a general pleasure in the comments on the subject of the bill. The transport agency believes that if the bill approved, it will provide both increasing consumer protection and improved management conditions for travel agencies where insurance commitments decline considerably. If I'm going to make some adjustments to the Commission, I'm at 1st. Section 3. The bill guarantees the obligatory debt of traders a package travel and the interconnected travel arrangements that are allowed by the travel agency's law to travel insurance. Remuneration should be paid annual paydays on September 1. However, this year's pay date will be on temporary ground on October 1. Then, on the basis of a provision made by the above - mentioned committees to apply for membership in the fund and to pay stock fees no later than July 1, 2021. Thus, the sea will be founded by the monopolitan payment of every travel agency active in 2019. Less than 1.5% of each party's calculated bail level compared to selling the package for that year. In the treatment of the case for the Commission it came to the opinion that travel agencies were taxing their application deadlines for membership in the travel insurance fund at July 1, 2021. Then it would be a bus stop time and, in addition, a very short time for collection of data, the bill would be approved at the beginning of June. Then, in its discussion of the matter, the Group of Travellers points out that there is still quite some activity to be gained from the crown virus's income. The organization suggests that travel agencies that started business in 2019 or earlier will be permitted to pay stocks to the fund for the first four equally paids in the first year. The committee requested a memo from the Ministry that would show its attitude toward the above. The Ministry's memo points out that a four - level cash exchange would mean that travel insurance would not be legal enough until all payments had been obtained. As a result, there would be no room to lower the city's bail level in accordance with a new formula, since the fund would not be equipped to provide the necessary insurance protection until it became fully filled. The Ministry believes that the proposal for stock exchange is not an improvement for the bill, but it suggests that the budget's pay will be on September 1 instead of July 1 to provide travel agencies with more leeway to finance funds and adapt to a new insurance system. If I'm going to revise accounts, we've got a 4. 1st par. The bill suggests that a government review will be entrusted to the review of travel insurance accounts. In his review of the matter, a decision made it clear that the travel insurance fund does not fit in with the term state body as defined in Article 3 of Figure 1. Section 3. it's a government law. As a result, it falls outside the public accountant's field to revise travel insurance accounts. The Commission suggests that having agreed with the Ministry that the arrangements would be removed, they propose a change in the proposal that the government of the fund be committed to revising his accounts. Then we will consider the appropriate conditions of government. In 1st. a-arms 2. The bill is based on the appropriate conditions for the management of travel insurance. It says that government officials are not judged for criminal action under the law listed there. In his review, the government tax manager points out that selling tourism is a valuable tax obligation under the Code on VAT. Since the tax is the tax tax, it is normal that credit laws also apply to the bill. The committee considers the indication valid and suggests a change in the subject. At the end, electronic applications are addressed. The Commission also suggests that the Ministry's request for a bill to be added to the bill that allows access to a travel agency is being made electronically, in view of the assumed that a number of travel agencies are applying for their membership in the travel insurance budget this year. The adjustment proposal is made with reference to government policies increasing digital services in public and businesses, which include increased transparency and security of communication between public and government authorities in electronic formats, and development of activities will become simpler. In other respects, the changes made by the Committee are technical and are not meant to have material influence. Then the committee proposes that the opinion of the committee be accepted by the changes presented in this document. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion with a tip to 4. mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the authority given here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Páll Jónsson Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. Councilmen, then whiskers. The council of Hrafn Gunnarsson son of in advance, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzo, in advance, María the daughter of Hjálmarsdóttir in advance, and Sigurður, son of Jon, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u173	Mr. President. Thank you. Magnúsdóttir In short, the book contains this bill to change the law on pack travel and the cohesion of travel. It's of little interest that there is a traveling, industrial, and innovation minister who makes this offer, a representative of the government's most talk about that the booth should be removed, that the sails and the state should be torn down. But now another organization, a travel insurance fund, is founded, an institution of self-employment. It's a controversial thing. It's a long story. I'd like to ask you what. Only on this point does a member of the body deal with the need to be an automaton. Was it, to some extent, about whether this should be a private institution, a private partner, or a public partner or just part of the government business? It'll even come. to report that Iceland's Haggis has recently completed a full review of the production of national interest accounts, including it is included in the classification of institutions, institutions within both state and community, and such institutions may be infringinging on budgets and government accounts. What is accomplished by making this a private institution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u174	Mr. President. Of course, the bill itself explains why this route had gone and was logical. The Ministry's presentation stated that this was a norse model and that it had been successfully completed where it was done. This was shown when all travel services followed by Covid that insurance may not have been as hot as we would have liked them to have compared to the insurance system that was present and that the cosmology paid by travel agencies has come out well in Norwegian countries such as Denmark, the model from which it came, and that it was a great pleasure with the ability of such insurance funds to ensure adequate insurance protection for consumers. I can't get deeper into it than this; it's been because of our Norwegian friends'experience with the same kind of funds that were being taken from the Ministry to have a bill founded by a travel insurance agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wondered: " Was there any assessment in the Committee's office whether there would be another new agency to establish with a three - man government that a minister orders or was not weighed and an assessment of the possibility of developing a current insurance system that, like the senator, would have been necessary? came on, perhaps a dose was enough for us recently? It says that this includes increasing consumer protection, and that's a good thing. It also says that the insurance fund will pay every tourist demand, regardless of the status of the fund at any given time. But who will pay if something is missing? Is it borrowing, or is it a government fund? And only about what is presented here on the assessment of the effect. A report with the bill shows that this will have a positive effect on transport services or package-selling management. And even the amount of money these companies pay for the insurance account may be just 10% of what happens now. Well, maybe. A senator assessed how this will affect the price of tourism? Are we hoping that we will receive lower fares and a more comfortable attitude when we make the move?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-08-109.u176	Mr. President. Now, I can't state that this bill guarantees a more enjoyable package trip to people than if a previous insurance system had remained on the market. I think this is best described in the information coming from a travel agency, the consumer organisations, the State Reservation, the Travel Service Association and the Skaetti, as well as a memo from the Department of Employment and Development, which was in general a great deal of pleasure with the subject of the bill. I think it's a good proof of health proof for the way to set up a travel insurance fund that certainly only reduces the financial resources of those people who have to contribute to stocks, but at the same time guarantees safer consumer protection. The sea, as I understand it, should be self-sustained. This arrangement has come out well and worked, for example. well in Denmark, when the tourism service lay on our side, like ours. The model comes from there. I have full faith that this fund will stand up for signs, secure us as consumers, and provide means for travel agencies to make their contribution there as an effective means of providing insurance protection if they are under pressure.
