ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u1	A letter has been received by the President, dated today, from the chairman of the Independence Party for personality changes in the committees of the council. Section 16. Congress. Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, took the seat of Óli Kárason Káláksson as an assistant to the International Parliament and Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, who takes the seat of the Haraldur son of Benediktsson as an assistant in the Icelandal League of NATO. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u2	President would like to announce that at the meeting of the Icelandal Parliamentary Conference on North Pole, held yesterday on December 6, Eyjólfur Ármannsson was elected vice president. Then was the meeting of the International Parliamentary Association (IPU), held yesterday, December 6, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, elected vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u3	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that the program for the prepared question period may last longer than any political body would expect to include up to six queries. To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Wood, Minister of Health, Department of Foreign and Development, Environment, Energy and Climate Organization, and Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u4	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke of the need to improve the ideal disability and the highest. A social minister and his associate also agreed on the same thing. However, reading the financial bill shows that the only thing that the government intends to do is raise the quality of disability by 1% beyond every year, and a legal increase of 4.6%. At the same time, the pay card has increased by 7.6% in the year. Moreover, considering inflation, the terms of inflation are improved, and there is no real desire in the government to settle this injustice. It's hard to see that the government has some excuse. The return of the State Fund was 120 billion better this year than it was feared in the financial bill that only 1.3 billion are granted to the public in addition to that legal provision. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether it agrees with me that this increase does little to improve the interests of these low income groups and does nothing to reduce the revenue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson for raising a subject of vital importance. Now I must first point out that the goods of the Kingdom are better, which we all rejoice and may even be. Based on the fact that governments, both economic and social measures, produced the result that we are seeing a much better delivery than expected, plans for nearly 170 billion will still be expected. I'm going to go to the state this year. The fact would have been striking, but because we have decided that we are going to grow out of this crisis, that we are approaching it with a certain aortacy, we also do not see a significant increase in expenses in these funds because we are taking the time to grow out of the crisis to further prosperity. In terms of microenergy and rehabilitation candidates, especially those who are in the early stages. One senator noted that pay for them is a special percentage improvement over 4.6%, an additional increase of 800 million. K. During our last term, although we are not going to spend that time, we spent 4 billion dollars. In improving the quality of the disability pensioner, the primary objective was to reduce the degree of impairment that has been the natural issue of the speech of this group. I want to say this here, of course, it's just the first step of a lot of other but the most important project for micro-and-replacement pensioners to reconsider the system. It wasn't finished in the last term. That is why we must complete this ideal period in order to make this system more righteous and beneficial and to ensure survival, notably those who are in the halls of their feet, but also the right motivation for increased activity and the participation of those whom they can. This is the work we are facing. I trust that a new social and employment minister will have a good consultation with the General on this project, because we've discussed it for countless times in this council hall. I'm sure we can meet up with this important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u6	Mr. President. Let's start the same song about reevaluating the system. Of course, it is necessary, but it is rather inhuman to have people wait for years for this review, the people not eating this advice, nor do they live in it. I wasn't saying it here, Mr. President, that the place on state funds was good. I'm much more asking: Is it bad enough to leave these groups behind again and again? That's why I must just repeat the question to the highest level. Prime Minister: Is she willing to agree that this increase will do little or nothing to improve the terms, and does she agree that my heart will continue? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u7	Mr. President. As made very clear in my first response, extra money is being put on the job of improving the quality of the disability and rehabilitation services. As explained in my first response, it is only the first step of more and as explained: Yes, the same song, which is because nothing has happened to us and we cannot give up on the task of making this system better. We, of course, who have participated in accepting additional funds to improve the cost of microenergy pensioners, also see that the system is down to one degree that makes it difficult for us to make sure that our support works where it belongs best. It is a great project, and I will not fail to conclude that one of the most important projects facing the Council is to achieve a solidarity over a much more just system. I'm sure we can if we really try to create a solid sense of solidarity about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u8	President. I was thrilled to see that the fifth issue at the U.S. Constitution. Health Ministers are decommissioning doses of consumption to become one of the first works of a new health minister. I think I speak on behalf of all Pirata when I say we celebrate this decisive statement. Ministers and we will, of course, do our part in making the results successful. In the United States alone, 30 to 40 youths are killed by an overdose every year, an unusually high proportion of people. In lands where consumption has been used, the number of deaths of drug overdoses has been substantially reduced and the majority of them have disappeared completely. Treating drugs as health and social issues, but not within the law and justice system, saves lives and is in the spirit of what is happening in the countries around us. A study conducted in cooperation with the Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland in the fall showed that a greater part of the country is achieved by the use of illegal drugs and therefore agrees with the highest levels. Healthcare secretary to treat drug users in the healthcare system rather than in the country's prisons. As we all recall, a former health minister's case came to a spring committee as a result of a conflict among the governments. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of health whether he will go to work to gain the support of his colleagues in a new government and whether this important matter, this important human rights matter, which saves life, the President, will finally get a course at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Halldóra Mogensen query. It is true that this case was submitted to the last council, of the former Supreme Court. Healthcare Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I'd like to start with the background for a minute. Because of what? A senator asks if I will put myself on the job to gain support, but I think it is of utmost importance that a mutual agreement is that the plans for what to do are going to be fulfilled, that it is the solidarity of the groups working on the scene that this will lead to the benefits that are being sought. Such a change of viewpoint can be traced back a decade or more. V.E.G. If I recall correctly, the Minister of Health proposed a pactary proposal for 2014, or a group of employees at all times. So suggested. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen repeatedly presented the subject. This is similar to the case of the highest degree. The minister came forward, and I will recommence. That's very impressive - and all the reviews, there were a lot of reviews on the subject from different sources. I'm a little involved in getting the case supportive and mutually supportive that this will result in the desired result, i.e. to reduce the harmful effects of this terrible addiction. That's key. This is a little bit about what an ingestion dose is. Then we must speak with police authorities, treatment agents, and other bodies in those areas and look to public health, prevention and policy in general. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u10	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. V.E.G. The minister has the case in his Constitution, so I assume that he intends to contribute, and I expect to. Actually, it says it's having a change. It would be interesting to know what changes are made from a former minister's bill. I find it important to know if a minister is not serious about going to this job and if he agrees on the importance of this matter. I also see that the matter should not be submitted until February. And I'd like to ask the highest. Minister here at the end - I realize he's new to the Ministry of Health: Ministers are serious about taking the road to criminal possession of drugs? Will he make the decision, definitely? And will he work to gain support within his own government, by his colleagues in the government? [[The president calls.]] That's the last thing to do. The fact is that governments, members of the government, did not agree. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Of course it is. Minister here is very serious about this matter. But we also want to be successful, and we in the Ministry will go to the work of talking with the members I came to the previous answer to in order for us to be effective with these policies and they are in relation to other pre-defeated policies, human health, etc. I point to... [[Will this definitely find out?]] Yes, it's in the Senate, and I can make it clear that the Justice Department, State Marshal, free U.S.A.S.R.A.S.R.S.S.R.S.S.S.R.S.S.S.R.S.S.S.R.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.P. is a free field service group and people who are involved in the use of drugs - we have also listened to the parties, how this works, to achieve the success of this work. [[Great.]] It is an international committee called, by permission of President Global Commission on Drug Policy, which has been leading around the world, where this route has taken place in the overall policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u12	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to wish for the highest. The minister of Guðlaugur congratulated Þór Þórðarson on his new Ministry and congratulated him on his success in this work. News of this has just been received that during the last few hours of his office, the former officer was serving as an officer. Environment Minister for Peaceed Earth Dranga in Aarnesfjord. This has happened on Friday night, but keys changed on Saturday morning, the next day. A news report on the town's best one, which appeared just a few minutes ago, says that this has been as effective as the Aáneshrepp representative of the work group on this subject refused to support the declaration of peace. There are also some of the financial resources associated with this and so forth. The reason I want to record this in an unsubstantiated inquiry today is that the presidents of the government groups have been sitting for two months and talking about the various issues, including you can read from the Constitution that there are significant changes in the regular work of energy in the country. This provoked great anger among the members of the Independence Party in the process of elections when former environmental minister, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, was at peace with the various areas. I'm here to mention the Thomson Jeep for elections. V.E.G. The current Minister of the Interior made serious comments on this. That is why it looks quite unbelievable to see that by the evening of the last day in office, former environmental minister has appeased the planet Dranga, who will not be a small indiscriminate operation and will have a significant impact on one particular element of activation that is today in a novelty category. I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I knew, I And how do you get the highest? A minister believes that this matter will be resolved or unfounded?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for both the inquiry and the congratulations. The description of events of the past. A senator here describes news for me. Not having been in office for a long time, I'm trying to put myself in most of the cases that are in there as little time as possible, except for taking various steps. I had heard something about the forms of peace, not the worries I had. A senator refers to something that I have not received. Truth be told, it's just one of the many matters I haven't reached, at the time I've been a environmental, energy and climate minister, putting myself in. Therefore, the nature of the case, I'm not going to tell myself about it right now. Hv. A senator has called attention to the matter, but in general it is, and has happened over a long period of time, that much of the peaceful territory in the country is now known. It is one of the procedures mentioned in the Mosaic Law to do so. I think the big thing is, and we learned it, for example. the discussion of a highland park, that there are many viewpoints, and that is now one of the proposed agreements to have increased consultation with local people when men work on it. And I think that's smart and good. But then we can also say that we are all locals, Icelanders, and I believe it is also important to listen to an outdoor organization and a national protection organization and to other people who feel that they have an interest in it. At any rate, I want to believe that a conversation will lead to nothing but benefits. [[The president calls.]] Although it does not necessarily end with everyone who agrees, it is at least good for us to decide how we disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. V.E.G. A minister might please confirm in his later reply the correct understanding of earlier. The secretary of the environment has not informed him of what he did on the night before giving him the keys to the Ministry, that he had appeased an earth that is a key factor in the activation of a new plan. I just can't believe that it is the truth that a former environmental minister has not informed the minister who took the lawsuit a few hours later about the last official act earlier. Ministers have been at peace with the earth, which is the second step of innovation. Could that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u15	A respectable president. Without wanting anything to go on into what has happened since I took over, and my dealings with my predecessors and models, it is most recently reported that the little contact that has taken place has been extremely good. We've agreed, and we didn't need anything, to sit down and cover things, but we haven't had time to do that. Of course, it wasn't like, when we were trading keys, that we had time to review all the current issues, no more than when I handed the keys to the great foreign and development minister of the keys. Not that I've done anything about it - or we can put it in a way we have, for example. Even after reviewing a number of subjects, and that, of course, will be the case. [[The president calls.]] But all I expect is my cooperation with my predecessors will be good from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Ministers are to be congratulated by the office and welfare of the profession. These are, in fact, the most important challenges of the country, the environment, the energy and the climate. The government covenant speaks extensively of green jobs and green jobs. I do not say that it is on each page, but on page. 9 says, for example, by permission of the President on climate or green job structure: To build a green, non-carbon society, it has to be established on new fortresses. The important thing is to be cautious about the fragile nature of the country and in the measure of increasing energy use, as well as fossil fuels emissions, to meet population growth and the needs of green industrial structures. On page 18. 10 says, with the permission of the president: We're gonna back up and pay for green work structure. On the same page, says the president's permission: There will be a plan to develop and develop research and knowledge of green solutions for the sake of employment...◯. And that's how it goes. On page 18. 13 pages 13 of an Icelandic agriculture, a fish farm, and a fishing road. It says, by permission of the president: With increasing interest in pure products produced by renewable energy and basic carbon tracks in Iceland, there is a high demand for the production of food and various side products. The question is, How does this wording fit in with the government covenant for sale of roots? Last year, according to Power Institute sources, 87% of Iceland's electricity was produced by coal and nuclear power. 57% of it was produced by fossil fuels and 30% by nuclear energy. I can't see how this is compatible with going to a green construction in the country when 90% of the electricity in the country is produced by nuclear power and coal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u17	A respectable president. Guð's good news. I seem to be getting as many queries in this first question period as Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister and the five years I was the foreign and development minister, and I'm just happy to ask the person who stands here. Thank you. A senator for this important question. It points to the big project, and it is important that we be aware of the big issues we are going on, the climate issues and the green revolutions. Of course, we have taken such revolutions, and it has been a very successful step for the rest of the country and has made us unique. But now we're going on other and even bigger assignments. I'm glad to hear it. A senator reviews these points in the Treaty, and I hope they will be a good solid solidarity. About what question? The senator then is something we need and must discuss, away from the opinion of people in this matter, including Right here in this room. I haven't had many meetings since I took over. My first meeting was with Land Protection and the Natural Protection Organization of Iceland, then National Recreation and Industrial Association. One of the things I picked up at my meeting with land activation was the responsibilities of this background. A senator refers to him. There must be compelling reasons why humans go that way. But people have long since gone that way. Away from what people think about it, there are various viewpoints in it, I feel that this is a matter we must discuss and that man has a policy. I'm happy to hear it. A senator of the litigation and emphasis as well, and I thank you very much. A senator for bringing this important matter to the attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. From his language, I would like to ask if it is not properly understood - that this sale of responsibilities is based on the third energy package and the European Union's energy policy. We might be able to have a discussion about the third energy package again and the fourth energy package, too. In the case of green sector development, how is green construction and green working policies of EU energy all this sales of primary responsibilities? Will the greater part oppose this sale of responsibilities? I'll tell you, this is an illegal sale, it's not in the court yet. This is at least the first time the product does not follow the source certificate. Source certificates are being sold, but product is not involved. I know it's a hundred percent split product, but this is what it is. And a judge who would judge this legally would at least not be connected to reality, since Iceland's electrical energy system is not linked to the European electricity system. We don't put a current on it, we're helping Europe to pollute. But the question is, will this lead to a discussion about the third energy package again and the EU energy policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u19	A respectable president. Like what? A senator began well, then he left a bit of a track. To say that this has something to do with the third energy package is complete nonsense. In case of a moment. A senator wants to talk about it... started calling it the energy policy of the European Union. [[Up front.]] I want to tell you what, too. A senator for Iceland is not in the European Union. But, God Almighty, if I get to talk about the third energy package again, I'm glad to go over what they said about what would happen if we went into the third energy package. Hv. A senator can count on me to take an active part in that discussion. I look forward to it. [[For the last time?]] Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson may be to recall some of his own words, and then what happened thereafter. [[Up front.]] Right on. Where's the cable that was supposed to come here and we couldn't stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u20	... Build...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u21	- Am I going to build? I look forward to this discussion. Let's see what they said about the third energy package in the most boring speeches in the United States and what happened after we agreed on the third energy package.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u22	A respectable president. It's nice to come up here directly from a discussion of the most boring debates of all time. But I am here to discuss the section of the Treaty that deals with the needs of children. Support to that ideologies is certainly there on the part of the council and in the community. In particular, the Treaty refers to the needs of children who speak Icelandic as a second language and notes that participation in non - Witness persons is an important factor in the growth of the economy. I hope that the government takes pride in making the statement in the Treaty a real measure of action, but it does acknowledge that the last term is the Scaring factor in that subject. It was then that the government produced bills with considerable objective, but the cost and responsibility were left with the rural communities. Of course, when the money is missing, when the bill is sent elsewhere, the companies are left behind in that position, both the smaller and the more crowded, to sit down with demands and to remain with responsibility that they can shoulder. What does that mean? The result? Of course, they're having the service wait for them and the debt of rural society increases. One is explained by action in behalf of disabled people, who lacked 9 billion to the point that it worked out. Children's bill or successal bill of social security, which received much support in the community, also did not afford all the financial resources needed to achieve good ideas. The Treaty is now specifically stated that children of foreign origin should be supported. Nevertheless, during the last term, the government made the decision that children in Reykjavík would not be supported from an equal fund for school or for teaching children of foreign origin. Yet, less than half of all these children are in Reykjavík. That's why I'm asking the highest. The secretary of the law whether his mind is in order for the government to make the budget of this urgent project and whether it can be trusted that when the rural communities receive the task, they will be left in the position of being able to shoulder the responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting inquiry and the opportunity to review the facts. You're right next door. A senator tells us that in the government covenants, and in what we have been doing, we give priority to putting our children in good arms. Yes, it is the future, and everything matters. The way we have carried successal projections did not only receive much support in the community but also during the council, and they have become a reality, and the induction has begun. We've also decided to jump into the operating system to secure them together because it's in the nursery and in the elementary school that the biggest steps will be taken at first. The financial programme had been established to start this investment, which has been called one of the most lucrative investments in Iceland, at least a pair with the largest number if compared to construction, i.e. it should be performed at an early level. Hv. A senator then concluded by studying Icelandic education to the newcomers, which is based on a donation to rural society, which is an agreement from 1996 to the city of Reykjavík, which has now been challenged, despite the fact that we in the Ministry have said: "We are ready to listen to it and discuss with other rural communities that there has been a considerable change and development and increase in the number of children from abroad who need it. We have offered a conversation, but Reykjavíkurburg has decided to sue the state because they simply say that the 1996 agreement is out of place. I am a man of my word. I also believe that those who make an agreement in the past should fulfill it. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. He called for us to have a discussion about the facts. These are the facts. This is what the ministry looks like to children in the country, and especially to the children in Reykjavík. That's half of the group. And let us not forget that in the last terms of the last term, the level of government was repeatedly used to reduce the cost and responsibility of the state's funds. The work is with the locals. The cost is in the community, the responsibility is in the community, and the children and the children who need the service must be able to rely on financial support. When it comes to investing in people, it is not merely a matter of sending the bill. It's not working, and that's not acceptable. I repeat the question because we are discussing the facts: Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of wood, using himself in a different way during this election period than the government did during the last one?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u25	Mr. President. You need to talk about things the way they are. Facts are facts. The meeting work was done. The answer that the city of Reykjavík was set off, and the exchange between other rural partners was set off in view of the fact that Reykjavíkurburg, which is, of course, very large as the proportion of all responders in Iceland and all the people in the country, would be as strong. It's been calculated many times. That's it. The fact is, however, that there has been a significant increase in the number of children of foreign origin, especially here in the capital area. I found it challenging to discuss it with Reykjavíkurburg if we were not going to meet that group. Instead, the city has decided to sue every member of the country or every member of the country by suing the state, so I put it right now, and upset an agreement made by everyone in 1996. That's the fact. It's been our wish for the government, the Ministry, to take this conversation. We've done it a dozen times. [[Up front.]] The result is always the same: The largest rural society in the country wants to take the case to court to force the 1996 agreement to fail. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is not what other societies of the country want, and this does not help their children in Reykjavík. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is wrong. There is a way to make a deal, if you want to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u26	Wait a minute. The speakers respected the time and the time of the talk. Councilmen respecting the fact that there has been one person, no more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u27	Mr. President. I congratulate you on your chosen and successful career. But it must be the highest power. Some presidents are now concerned when a council council council has just heard it here at the Senate Hall that one of the most controversial cases of last term, at least in the field of the environment, it has been noted that almost overnight shelters of one of the highest levels seem to be in place. Minister, then in another office, in fact, completely without consultation with the council, and thereby prevented one of the few initiatives that had entered the Neo-continent, the activation initiative that is important for all on the Westline, not least and an important part of the environmental environment in Iceland. To one of the highest. The minister should have made this available without any consultation with the council, without any consultation with his successor, who is clearly from the mountains, but not the mountains of the West, and did this just before he moved to another Ministry, he cannot be considered correct by the Supreme Court. General President. Surely there must be an escape from the general council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u28	Mr. President. From the point of view of how you feel about this peace description, I have to agree that these are quite amazingly strange practices. Of course, they're just the last link in a series of events that began last spring when the Ministers rode around the districts to pay and to vote and buy approval for voters in the country, when we at the council had just agreed to accept changes that made us limited our ability to travel at the expense of the state, which was just fine. But now we must ask for a summary of the support, financial resources, and trips of the Ministers since the fall of Congress and that I thought, before elections, but clearly until the key exchange occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u29	A respectable president. I declared it in a talk here at 1st. financing that there was nothing else in this situation than calling for a report on the way the Ministers had been divided out of helicopters -- as I would like to call it, money thrown out of a helicopter over the nation - that there would be an assessment of the way that the funds would have been divided, especially at the end of the term period, and especially at the time when members had submitted and agreed together, reminding me that no cost would be made at the council. Then a government fund was suddenly used as an election fund for the government groups. I'd like to mention it in this context to the highest. This needs to be followed by some overview of the last minute's actions by the Ministers to be implemented by regulations or forms of peace, as in this case. It is totally unacceptable for the council to have to read through the Government News many weeks after action took place under cover of night to see what really happened during the last days of each minister's office. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u30	Mr. President. No matter what we think of the action here that has come to our attention, this peace in the shelter of the last night, they no doubt remind us of the actions of some who feel that they must defend the fortress before it falls into enemy hands. This is something special, considering that it is the same government class. As far as I'm concerned, this focuses on the news on the distribution of electricity, on the state of land induction, on the use of low energy contracts because of the lack of electricity distribution to the furrows in the past. We know that a fall out of the neck for ten days would have been enough to save this season. I wondered if what has been going on here is what will come to pass in the conflict between the governments on this important issue in the future. [[The president calls.]] Will it be solved this way, who will be the most aggressive at any time, rather than in a conversation between the government party and here within the council? This is more important than it can be settled in a sandbox.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u31	President. What's being discussed here is interesting, these decisions, the Minister at the end of the term. This has been discussed before. That's exactly what I asked us to discuss on the budget the other day. The government has been on vacation for nearly six months. That, on its own, is very dangerous, especially when we live in political democracy. We have to keep that in mind. We're supposed to monitor the Executive Director, and when it takes a very large amount of unsupervised work just before the election, it's something we have to look at, really, whether there's a reason or not, it's just our duty. There is clear indication now about things that are of interest, not to be fixed, and to give us reason to look at them rather than just general motives, which should be sufficient. So I'm the highest. A minister to answer the queries of the legal committee in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u32	Mr. President. I come up here to agree with the words that have fallen on the government's conduct and conduct of the election. Now, the one present has provided a bill for changing government law that forbids stewards to distribute money eight weeks before election, for such conduct is completely incorrigibly incorrigibly. In addition, I've requested that state reexamination go into the stitches on how the Ministers behaved the last month before election. There must be some intervention with the Council, the Commission, and when the Ministers decide on their own to have no council here for months to be able to, after their own practicality, distribute public funds in their interests in order to attract voters, we must ask the government's review to help. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u33	Mr. President. I would like you to respond to what has been stated here on the evidence that the Council has more monitoring of measures than ever. Minister, particularly with regard to this large case, which has been debated in the community for a long time, but had been led to resolution in its time, in terms of the activation of the Neo-continental Party of the Generals. Here is a minister who has actually lost his office to use his position to violate the decision of the Generals. It's got to be the best. The president wants to react in some way. Sadly, this seems to illustrate how this government is formed, since ministers simply received some kind of recipe for what they should do, had no access to what was coming. Either this recipe has been prepared by government officials or by government leaders. But some of them apparently saw an opportunity to act in disrepute in their councils before accepting the demands of those taking the lead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u34	A respectable president. There is no shortage of opportunities for the General Assembly to give the Council of the Council, individual advisers, or government, of committees, here in the Hall of Congress. Here are two examples, one of which shows that there are certain statements without much discussion or examination. I think it would be better to develop the discussion a little more before people start to draw big conclusions. On the other hand, ministers are claimed to have free hands to distribute money to society, such as labour. A senator named here before and completely ignored the fact that it is the General Assembly that has the legal authority. Ministers are only making provision for the financial resources given to them by the General. Ministers do not have free hands to manage funds for money. It's just a long way from that. They collect them from the law, from available sources. So I think the Conspiracy needs to look for something other than this explanation to settle the outcome of the election.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u35	Mr. President. Yes, yes, the Consequences will, of course, look at their positions. It's just that it's pretty easy to have lost with dignity for sitting in the shelter of some victory, which was still the worst election in human memory for the Independence Party and to do it very badly. V.E.G. A minister usually talks about beginning to deepen and develop his discussion when he is in trouble. We simply had no access to surveillance for weeks and months in favor of this government. I'd like them to have the highest. Governments, on their own, provide a list of all the expenses that took place from the end of the Senate until key exchanges, as well as driving journals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u36	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here with the highest words. Secretary of finance, which speaks of the council having sufficient opportunity to sustain the European Commission. It's just not right. It was called in for the election. Then we went on vacation, and the council didn't get together until after a cloth and a plate. This was more months, since the council did not have the opportunity to provide proper maintenance with the Commission. In addition, reports have been requested, have been made here last winter, e.g. from the High Sea Department on the saying of the saying, and from the influence of the Icelandic saying in the general community. That report came in an image of damage. So they lack a lot and are not right at the highest level. Secretary of finance that the Council has all the authority to sustain the European Commission. I think it's very important to agree with it. The members of the Central Party have noted that it is urgent to balance this situation with what will be in such a long intermission, between the civilian members of the government and those on the Minister's throne. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u37	A respectable president. It was either sharing money in an election or making promises to the future of distribution of funds that have not been approved here by the financial authority. It has been written on many articles, the highest. Secretary of finance, which was being distributed, either one or more ministers, into the same organization, certainly many important issues. One hundred and fifty million at the student parks in Flatty. I don't remember the General agreeing. Maybe the highest. Secretary of the budget has corrected this. Of course, they were handing out drawers here and there. The houses of the Land Guard helicopters, various kinds of mental - health services, organizations, associates, roads, and other things. This can be the best. A financial minister found out by reading the media on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u38	President. I must come up here to join my colleagues. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir did all this well when it came to all those little sponsors just around 15 minutes before election. There were many groups of members who were given strength just before elections. There was suddenly a place to find for the Arts University of Iceland, only 15 minutes before elections, and there were a lot of things... [[Up front.]] There were some things pulled out of the hat just before the election. Now I'm not saying that it wasn't a good project; most of these were tasks that I would have supported my mind. But it must seem amazing that this is all right and allowed for Minister to act like this in his campaign, to just pick up some drawer money and throw it here and there to win a vote. So I take my heart up to this request to get a list of the election's election expenses. I think it's very important, and I challenge the president to respond to that request and let us know if there's anything he intends to assist and support the government stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u39	A respectable president. I think this is material that we need to maintain very thorough management with the government over and over, that people can see the significance of how this process affects them. An officer was terminated on June 13th. It came together again in December. The Congress has not been in any position to provide the government, simply because this was the way the government was prepared for it that it wasn't working. When I'm at the highest. A minister says that the council has enough opportunity, so it just isn't like that. The tools we use - we request reports, and what happens to them? They appear in a different form than they were written. The latest example of how the council was appointed by committees, the ratios of workers, and the proportions that have not been observed for decades. Simply put, you are always left behind with this feeling, over and over, that there is a great will for the government that the council will stand weak.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u40	President. I find it interesting that the secretary of finance is here asking that the council now have all the opportunities to monitor the European Commission. It should be obvious to everyone that questions are answered late and answers are always, so if any, try to avoid the main points and the smallest answers are answered. When the sea's taking the initiative and monitoring committee, it takes more shares and says, "No, we don't think it's necessary, and closes the case by accounting. This financial bill - does anyone want to say that this is a transparent document we can use to say that these are exactly the legal rights of a minister? No way. So: No, the council that has a follow-up role for the Commission has the legal role needed to get correct information from the very person with whom it is being supervised but is not able to do it. That's serious. This is very serious, and it is the responsibility of most of the council, the members of Congress, who are responsible for this government sector. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They literally decide that the surveillance isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u41	Mr. President. It's a good conversation. However, I would like to draw to the attention of members of Congress that a surveillance role or the potential for the Senate is not finished when a campaign campaign is announced. There's always been opportunities, e.g. to present with members of the Parliament for a special occasion, until the election day, because the agency is until the election day. And it wasn't all new, at least. not with control status. So I concluded that the government had not considered a great reason for this surveillance role. In addition, it may be critical when it comes to paying a certain amount of money on a budget. However, members of Parliament can ask questions, written inquiries, to every minister and to get information. Senators can also, that's why they're here at the Senate Hall, e.g. in the energize of their session, with a management and monitoring committee, requested a report by the State Reconnaissance to examine the issues they feel may need to be considered. [[The president calls.]] There's always a chance for a senator. Nobody robs the microphone of elections or elections, either in the media or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u42	Mr. President. I just want in the light of words. The secretary of finance, of course, for our members of Congress's access to information, reporting requests and so on, must recall, and I'm sorry that the former minister of foreign affairs has left the room, that it took some time to get a lovers's assessment of the benefits and faults of the EEA agreement made in the wake of the repeated request of the former Middle Party General Ólafur Is Ísleifsson of Isun. Then came a fine report on the benefits of the EEA team. This did not refer to the failings of what we know to be different. Thus, when it comes to finding intelligent answers to questions presented fairly, the situation of members of the council is a little complicated at times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u43	President. I come up here to deal with any comment. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. It's just that the government doesn't always have the advantage of being able to handle this important situation and getting it out because there's a natural majority of 'em too. We both prayed, for example. for a meeting, a summer council, to oversee and to start a discussion on the Constitution, but this was not agreed. We asked for a meeting following the Ásmundsala case between Christmas and New Year, where the minister did not respect the treatment protocol and it was not agreed to a meeting. There are some questions in committees that do not get answers, so it is not quite that simple. What I think we should ask ourselves right after this, which I would also like to have a discussion about and is important, is this: If we are to continue to have autumn elections instead of spring elections and create these situations where we have limited ability to maintain with the council because of long pauses from Congress, which is something we need to consider in the overall context, we need to know if it is really a sponsor, because I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u44	A respectable president. I just want to agree with this. The majority of the pieces have shown that they have a share, that they have it. They've sent us a clear message about that. To say that we can ask for something when it does not exist - of course we can pray for it, but we will not be answered. We do not get what we are asking for, and we know it just in these last days. It must be time, if we're going to try to get some respect here at the General Assembly, that we need to talk so that we're both listening, not just the one person who says, "I'm in charge, I've got a lot of it. But that's the situation now, and we see it in the discussions that have been here today that there's only one, the government's in charge. We can ask for something, but we can't get what we're asking for, that's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u45	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of the budget for the year 2022. The bill suggests a change of several laws according to the criteria of a bill for the budget of the year 2022. Its elements are of a wide range of ways that both the income and the reciprocal effects on the bill. I will discuss some details of the most important things, but this review is not necessary in the same order as the section of the bill. First of all, I'm on the price of a penny tax and pay. The bill suggests a 2.5% rise in so - called dollar taxes according to standard, but over the past few years, the government has, in view of the fact that these centenarian taxes and charges did not exceed the prices of the Federal Bank. In fact, in the past few years we have decided not to bring up the taxes and fees, but this time we are following the standard that has been contributing to the prevention of inflation, which may be estimated to be a 12-month change in the index of consumer prices over the current year 4%, according to the Economics assessment. However, the increase is expected to be no greater than this inflation target of the Federal Bank. This is a carbon charge, an oil charge, a tax in general, a special tax for fuel, a tax of more or more miles, a car charge, and a price of alcohol and tobacco. It is assumed that this increase will bring up the state budget by 1.7 billion. every year including the side effects on sumy tax. The effect on the index value of consumer prices is estimated to be 0.08% and is not reflected in the increase in radio fees and expenditures in the elderly, but these charges do not affect the index of consumer prices. Second, about this latter price, i.e. ... in the Death Fund and the Radio account: Here is a 2.5% increase in cost to the elderly, which, according to the price of 12,334. to each currency at the pressures of public pay in 2022 due to the income of 2021. This increase is estimated to be 70 billion. K. in addition each year. At the same time, it is assumed that a specific price for State Radio will be raised from 18300 K. ... at 18.800K. ... tothepropriation of the bill's prices. Supplemental revenues of that increase of about 120 million. K. every year. Next, there is a new criteria for improving tax-free and stepmarks in individual income taxation. The bill suggests that during the annual infusions of tax adequacy and stepmarks, an annual increase will be based on the evolution of the index consumer prices plus 1% production rate per year. Assessment of long-term growth is expected to be reviewed every five years and added to the index price of consumer consumption for an update of each year. With this criteria, there is an update of the tax-free and step boundaries of transparency and understandable. Automatic fluctuation becomes integrated in the tax system, where tax burden decreases when there is less pay raise than conversational inflation and long-term growth and vice versa, when more than long-term growth is produced. In addition, a variable increase in tax abatement and step-point ratios is prevented in order to allow the proportion of tax burden in the lower part of the income distribution to increase over time without specifically being determined. It is estimated that income taxes will decrease by 2.3 billion in the next year due to the uptake of the product reference in an improvement of the tax-free and stepmark if the rate is based on 1% production. Next up, child support. Here it suggests an increase in the amount of money and cut-offs due to children's reforms, which are involved in the decision of child reform in advance and in the pressures of public pay in 2022. First, the lower limit of the child's income share is expected to increase by 8%. For single parents, the limit will increase from 4.2 million per year to 4.5 million per year, or if we look at it on a monthly basis, the lower limit will rise from 325,000. every month of 379,000 k. This means that for a single parent who earns all his income from pay and pays 4% of the debt in a pension fund, there is no impairment of child reform up to 395,000 dollars. For couples, the lower limit of the share of income improvement is increased from 8.4 million. K. every year to 9.1 million, and looking at the same thing on a monthly basis is an increase of 702,000. every month for 758,000 K. This means that for parents living together, who earn all their earnings of pay and pay 4% of the pension fund, there is no impairment of child support up to 790,000 bucks. in the combined monthly remuneration. Secondly, the upper limit of the paediatric income share is expected to increase by 12%. The upper limit of decline has remained unchanged since they were recorded in 2019 at 52.8% higher than the lower limit of decline. Since then, the lower limit of decline has increased annually, leading to a reduction in the distance between the impairments. This is partly achieved by the bill, which suggests a relative increase in the upper limit of impairment beyond this with the lower limit of decline. Finally, the amount of money raised by children is suggested to increase from 5.5 to 6.5.8%. For single - parent families, child reforms are raised by the first child by the 22nd of the 300. Four hundred and thirty-one thousand years. and child support paid by children more than one raised by 20,200. and become 423,000. For parents living together, child - rearing with the first child increases by 13500 dollars. and will be 248,000. and child support paid by children above one goes up by $1,800. Be 295,000 bucks. Children under seven years of age who are paid for child support raise by 8,000 dollars. and will be $148,000. If the bill is legalized, the combination of the changed limits and a higher sum of children's benefits will lead to child reform in the coming year. The total child - welfare spending in 2022 is estimated to be 13.9 billion per year. It is expected that the growths proposed on the budgets and limits of children's income gains will be contained within the paediatric budgets in 2022 and will not contribute to the increase in government funds. As a result, some recent raises in pay would have resulted in the failure of all the funds for child reforms, as they were presented to the council a few days ago. This is a failure. This is where the growth process takes place. provisional regulations require that the calculation rules of growth reform be extended one more year, meaning that the system's calculators and guidelines will be the same in 2022 during this year, while interest expenditures are estimated to be 2.2 billion in the next year on the basis of these options. Next, there is payment on the economics and return costs. It is proposed to change the surveillance fees and various fixed fees under the legal law on paying costs to official financial monitoring. The overall change in ratios reflects the annual monitoring costs to cover the budget and the return authority. The change in the Management Board management programme has been proposed to plan the development of the operation for the next three years rather than to look forward to the last three years. This can earlier take into account the Agency's focus and change in the legal environment of the surveillance providers. The change in the monitoring fee of pension funds is then proposed to reduce the rate of straddled fees but to raise fixed charges. Overall, the change results in an unusual decrease in the pension fund. At the same time, the change in monitoring fees is proposed to collect the fees of the monitoring organisations in this country which do not have the territory's license. At the present time, six such branch offices are fired. It is then proposed that the agency's agencies in accordance with the legislation on payment services, the exchange agents of electronic companies under the regulations for the publishing and handling of electricity and loans, and the borrowers under the supervision of the Commission, should pay fixed fees for monitoring. This is a new payer for the follow-up. The change is also suggested that the operators of specialized funds, authorized to market the funds in a local country, pay fixed fees for each such fund. It is a new paying factor, but no work has been done. Finally, there is an increase in insurance insurance regulars. The estimated follow-up rate of the year is 2,332.7 billion. K. Another income is estimated to be 29.6 million. The total cost of UNEP is estimated to be 2 billion and 490 million. K. It is thus assumed that the total cost will be 12.7 million over income and that these expenditures will be met by a reduction in the total budget of the budget. The estimated cost of return funding is 94.5 million, reflecting the estimated cost of return. Thus, monitoring costs to cover the costs of public financial monitoring take a few changes in individual teams, but overall the cost increases by 232.9 million. The price drops on credit companies, credit companies, insurance companies, stock markets, and various holding companies. The reduction in the price of this product is due to a decrease in the pressures of the population and/or a reduction in the number of partners in the category. This reduces the pay of a pension fund due to a reduction in the pemetrexed rate. For other categories, the fee is raised or replaced. Next for the payment of expenses by the agent of creditors: The bill suggests an increase in the currency of the strain based on the law on paying expenses of the agent's charge of debt. The law states that management supplies or loss of business should be taken into account from the activities of an agent who owes a debt in making a price for the next calendar year. In that case, the cost of nursing and the expense of domestics is high. Here a new provision is proposed for temporary action on the affairs of the elderly. This is to prevent the increase in the cost of domestic activities in nursing homes and nursing homes from being removed from spouses'income income. It is also suggested that temporary legal requirements be extended. As a result, money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly in 2022. Next up is the interaction between social security and pension funds. Here it suggests an extension of temporary arrangements to help prevent the cross-overs between the damage done by the social security and the disability of pensions in 2022. It is then assumed that the amount of cash paid on the job market for microenergy donors to calculate income insurance and home remuneration will be the same in 2022 and this year. Free income is now 1,315.200. every year equivalent to 109,600 k. per month. In the absence of the provisional principle, the cut-off mark of biofuels for employment will decline from 1,315,200 a year to 300,000 dollars. and lead to a reduction in improvements in the energy and rehabilitatement of pensional patients who have a job income over the off-aching target. Undivided provisions had dropped by 1 billion dollars. in the year 2022. Next, it is time for a special vacation market for professional pensioners. Here is a special vacation goal for professional pensioners of 1.2 million. K. each year, but it is suggested that there will be an increase of 2.4 million per year. The change will lead to 540 billion. K. increase in annual financial expenses. Workning funds are next on the program. This is suggested by a change in provisional regulations. We're going to extend provisional work-in-work laws and work remuneration laws and insurance laws that claim that work remuneration funds will not receive income from a common insurance bill in 2022. A similar law has been in force since 2013. However, the employment and pension funds are still expected to be equal to 0.1% or less. It is then assumed that agreements between financial and economic ministers and social and child-friendly Ministers and staff responsoring will be made in agreement and that in 2022 the head of the headcount fund will be set up to contribute on budgets. The cost of fixed charges is expected to increase from 980 k. per month according to current law at 985K. Before 2022 C.E. The law's contribution to the parishes of the Church and other religions usually changes according to an estimated change in the average taxation product of individuals 16 years of age and older, as well as an increasing number of individuals. But now, as in budgets for 2021, with a change in parish fees laws, it is assumed that a budget would be fixed. Cost of greenhouse gas emissions and extraction costs: The amount of emissions paid is expected to be an increase of 3 billion - no, the excuse, that's only to me in the budget. Here's the amount of emissions below, and why the tons of waste required will be raised from $3.430 a.m. of 5,767k. This is a change resulting from changes in the average share of emissions in the European Economic Area as it was during a year ending July 31st. In addition, increases in emissions from plastic stores, hay-plastics, oil products, black oil, halogenated chemicals, paints, and batteries are suggested. These changes are expected to have little effect on the income of the state funds. By the legislation on changing the law to meet the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, the host tax was temporarily removed by temporary legislation on the host tax from April 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021. Undiscovered, therefore, should be a provisional period for the years. This bill suggests a temporary extension of the provisional plan and a legal payment and a reduction of host tax by 31st December 2023. If the law permits it to reduce the tax pay of the state's budget by 860 million. K. During the year 2022 and 1,030 million per year 2023, all of which have been given, including the value of extra tax. The effect on the index price of consumer consumption is estimated to be 0.01% in the next year. This is simply the case with tourism, which may still be hurting. We still have steps on the border. We see that travel is not yet the way it was, and room service in the country is still recovering from a pandemic. Therefore, it would be a mistake to introduce a new tax that would make it harder for the industry to repair itself. In the Treaty of the Treaty, there are some comments on the host balance fees and on the fact that as the sector resumes, reinvestment of host taxes will be introduced, and local communities will be informed whether services could be found that would meet the needs of the rural society in various types of investments and measures associated with tourists. As we know of an earlier discussion here at the council on that matter, the communities are divided into two compartments. However, there are rural areas that have many residences within the local markets and, as a result, they would receive considerable income from such taxes, and this is the case with rural communities that find considerable resources for tourism without having many accommodations, and such communities call for a share in the tax designed to be directly involved and indirect costs for rural communities directly from the arrival of tourists. This is a long discussion that I'm not going to get into exactly here, but the bill assumes that for the next two years we would be able to work more closely with the experience of having this tax and following closely how this article is going to build up after a pandemic. We could have this conversation with our rural communities, and I must point out that, at the beginning, when we opened it up in the Treaty since 2017 to have a conversation with the rural communities about the host tax, it was always assumed that there would be an overall discussion in some of the financial communications between state and rural society. I'd like to move from the host tax to the foundation-separated members of the state under official financial law. We'll put this bill on for a change of $50. the management of public finances, along with the necessary changes made in harmony with other aspects. This is to correct a degree of inconsistency, in which the international economy of public finance, which we call General GFS, takes into account the nature of the activity in the classification of members of Part A, B, and C, according to the current 50.g. The law of the law, i.e. The GFS standard takes into account the nature of the function at the state party classification and the classification of Part A, B, and C by the current 50. g. Depends on the principle of responsibility. Here it is proper to make adjustments in order to be consistent with the format of public finances. This is important, so it is not always necessary to have some kind of special explanation based on a bridge from one standard to another. A respectable president. I've considered the key elements of the bill and I'd like to say, at the end of my case, that with the bill's contract, See if the campaign should be extended to all jobs. It is an effort that has been made to reimburse individuals in any form of reimbursement tax from a particular service and has been successful. We've been working on either 60% remuneration rate or 100% reimbursement rate, and I just want to let it be said here that we're identifying what possible effect it would be in the next year to extend the campaign, to look at data on how the campaign has been shown this year, and the amount of time we've had in terms of 100%. I think it's very likely that we'll suggest that the campaign be extended. It is such a matter of opinion how long it should be, but these data we would like to communicate with the council over the next few days after a further consideration has been made to the committee. I wanted to say, because I have found a discussion on this point specifically and certainly we were discussing it in elections not long ago, and most of us agree that it was the right to extend the campaign. However, I wanted to build up such a proposal with evidence that could deepen the discussion and that they are being born. Then I'd like to say that the bill affects the provision of income, prices, and commercial power, as humans can imagine. It is assumed that these price updates of a centennial tax will yield 1.7 billion, as mentioned earlier, and that includes a side effect on the value tax. These effects are limited to 0.08% on the index price and the income tax dropped by 2.3 billion due to the product reference I traced earlier. The total child-grading rate is estimated to be 13.9 billion. It may be estimated that with the changes presented here, the amount of expenses due to children's improvement may have been somewhat compared to what might otherwise have happened. I don't have that number with me right now, but I would rely on it to make it seem like it could remember up to 2 billion. Suggestion in the bill on the unchanged growth reform criteria will result in an expenditure of 2,2 billion in 2022. From this, we see that the growth reform system is gradually shrinking and we have taken up other resources, the overall housing system, the share loans, and other resources, which raise questions as to whether we could transfer them permanently into these new resources. But here it is not to be suggested but to assume that next year growth improvements will be 2.2 billion. I've traced it to the host tax, as well as to the employment of a pensioner, to double the permafrost market. Other changes may affect either the income and/or the back of the car, but are very minor. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u46	A respectable president. The Government Treaty states that there should be an improvement in the survival and ability of microenergy pensioners to act and participate on their own terms. This is a noble objective, and we know, because of the research that has been carried out for the Microcollar Union, that one of the main barriers to working disability is the decline in the system, the declines that make it possible when people with impaired skills find a job that suits them, they eat their salary right away, reaching out the pay from a insurance agency. It's a poverty trap where the tax and reforming system works directly against people's survival efforts. It's an eighth-corpiercing term. Ministers of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, and these are the eighth of the budget, which replaces the commercial markets of micropigs. And now, with this duet, it will be half as low as the income market of older people at the same time as the gap between pension and pay has improved and improved. Why don't we just go up this group's vacation market, increase the freedom of people with less working ability to earn money, and get the rocks outside the social security system, e.g. does it raise up just as much from the job markets of older people? [[The president calls.]] Is that something of the highest value? Financial and economic ministers would support you?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u47	A respectable president. You're right. A senator says about the government covenant. We aim to increase the potential for disability and the main barrier to this development are concern of the Microsystems Community with the ability to work, and particularly since the assessment can lead to some sort of trap, as it seems to be a job assessment, but when it is tested, it will go worse than is expected and it will be difficult to get back into the old system. I've suggested many times that we respond to this simply by ensuring a specific delivery route into the system, and it's the custody of a social minister to lead them to work, and this work has actually been going on for a long time. It's not good to compare the square end of professional pensioners with the desperate because they're no longer comparable. So the system change we made in the pension of social security in 2016 turned the system into a system that, in turn, wished to remain in the same system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u48	A respectable president. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Financial and economic ministers, the main threshold is not concern of the Micro-Community Association with the ability to work. The main threshold is the impairment system maintained by the Government of the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, Catherine. That's for damn sure. Why is it that no matter how well an ace is in the community, no matter whether there is progress in the economy or if there is a crisis, there is always the need to leave the less income? V.E.G. A financial minister always finds an excuse to keep the basic social security benefits far below the minimum. He always finds some excuse for clinging to a vacation target like that. The pension income of the senior citizens at $25,000. He always finds some excuse for keeping the income market at a microfowl of 109,600 bucks. year after year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u49	A respectable president. The idea of operating is that people can go to the job market and work without impairment, force their energy without impairment, and get benefits that reflect the energy evaluated. In this respect, I just disagree completely. Senator. Otherwise, if we look at the development of financial improvements in social security in recent years, it is difficult to find an era in which their buying powers have grown as much and more over the years, and I completely refuse that we have left disability in particular. All research, whether viewed by sensibilities or by others trusting in the social security system, shows that it has been successful in protecting and adding the level of money each year. The grand task that awaits us in the case of disability is to make a global system change that I spoke for in the event of election and to establish our hopes that we will be able to perform in this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u50	A respectable president. Regarding all working, a minister said that men were scratching their heads about whether to continue to do so. I think the highest. The secretary of finance should stop it and leave it alone. It's a great move, and it really benefits the homes. But what I scratch in my head and I want to explain is why, on the other hand, it's said from year to year that I should not extend a provisional statute for the elderly's management fund, extending the provisional directives for domestic costs, extending temporary provisions for the cross-interacting microenergy pension, extending the provisional provisions for the depositment of abduction. It is forever, forever talking about extending some preliminary law. And what was the result when they forgot to extend temporary rules to the decrease in the pension fund of the elderly? It ended as a legal case. Why can't we solve this once and for all, and stop extending this year after a year? Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u51	A respectable president. It is now as I mentioned earlier, with regard to the campaign all working, that I had hoped to bring more subversive data, but it was possible to prepare for the bill's contribution. I therefore state that, after discussing the matter on the Minister's Committee and after events in the government, I will make some adjustments to the committee. We'll just see how it plays out here at the council. I can hear it. A senator says that he would support it, and most of them did it for elections, if I remember correctly. In view of the extension of temporary measures, they are in all cases arousal. But it is this story as a matter of course. A senator was tracking down here, and it's evidence that we have not been able to enter a global security check on the system. That is why we are trapped in these endless extensions each year to various indiscriminate laws of the law. I think we have to give it to us one more time. But I think it's more important that we do this real job. I think there's a lot of improvement to be made on the system without the cost being very high.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u52	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I'd like to point out that he said that the Micro-Community League stopped reimbursement of the social security system when older citizens received their reimbursement. It would've been the Corporate Community's fault. It was not the Qualification Alliance to teach because the Quantum just did not want to swallow what was offered, it was not acceptable. Let's get this straight. Then there's another amazing thing to do. He says that he didn't have to wait for him. I'm waiting for the highest. Then a minister to explain to me how, on the other hand, it's about to become invalid with 109,000 dollars. free income target, if calculated since it was put on, i.e. 109,000 dollars, that's 220,000 bucks. I'm waiting for the highest. Ministers also to explain to me why, on the other hand, all the strength gained by desperate ones is stuck and not raised. And they have been trapped in recent years and decades? That's a impairment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u53	A respectable president. I don't think it's a good idea to try to trace the story, but it didn't come from the laying up of a bill after years of work that was originally led by Pétur's promised Blöndalur. Then, and there have been several social minister ÞorsteinnSæmundsson) who have gained considerable allowance in financial programmes and funding to implement these changes. There was no solidarity of change in the group of members of the proposal, and there was a representative of the Quantum Coalition. It is clear that if these changes had taken place, the cost of the State's funds would have been several billion higher over a period of over a period of over a period of time. I just want to say something, because of what you're doing. One senator said that there were ideas they did not want to swallow at all, that the government fund had paid billions more to cover the period since the moment it happened. [[The president calls.]] Now, in itself, there is no room to answer all the other questions asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u54	President. I'd like to ask the Minister only about the change that seems to be in the way the Ministry handles the 69th par. Social security legislation where correction of the misassessments is now expected for the 2021. The cost of inflation was higher than expected in 2021, with a difference of 0.8%, which should be placed on the rise of 2022. This is 3.8% in pay development 2022, 0.8% in terms of 4.6% basis. Then the government decides to add another 1% to 5.6%. So far, the explanation has been that it can only be made once a year, and then for the budget of the coming year, but now a new definition has arrived, without specifically changing the law, I don't see in this bill that there's anything being changed in the law that should change the definition. So I would like to ask a minister: Why is this change of attitude in the use of these laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u55	A respectable president. In itself, there is no change in the interpretation of the Law, which deals with minimal changes to be made each year. There has always been a financial opinion that each government can then decide to change beyond the minimum legal requirements. It has generally been compared to the prices in general used in the bill and when it happens, as applied in 2021, that inflation becomes higher, it is not unusual to look for compensation to increase them at least of what was more important, the price paid was eventually higher than that of the budget bill. But there is another one here, and just to further emphasize how we look at 69. g., make an additional 1% decision that governments can decide to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u56	President. I agree that the government can decide to add beyond the minimum, but this is the first time taken into consideration a plan of the first year. What's interesting about it is that evolution is taken, the difference between it, which is lower than pay development. If you looked at pay development from October 2020 to October 2001 - I don't know exactly what the pay period is in 2021, it's not discussed in the budget bill - it's 7.6%. They are, in fact, 3% if 69. gr. is to be taken into account. that there is a higher number of either pay or inflation to be seen. But for the first time, the government chooses to look at and correct real - life developments, but it chooses lower numbers and not higher ones. Why does the government do this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u57	A respectable president. I must allow myself to refer to the written answer I have made to the council in the past by the Ministry on how we feel it is right to interpret the 69th grade. In fact, we have been in that relationship at some point, as well as in communication with the emissary of the Generals. But it is common to discuss 69 C.E. pars. is here used by the council to look at the pay scale as it is calculated, but we have thought that it is actually more correct to look at the prepared agreements that have been in value during the reference year. And that is the standard that has been generally considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u58	President. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. I'd like to ask the highest question last year. To what is stated on page 16? 13 in the bill position, below the point of 3.7, of a special vacation target for professional pensioners. It tells us that this will be up to 100,000. in a month to $200,000 a year, of 1.2 million a year to 2.4 million, and of this the financial cost of a government fund is 540 million. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Did any evaluation of the income of the state's funds come from this change?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u59	A respectable president. The answer to that question is: No. In general, cost evaluations have been taking constant conditions. We have considered the world as if it did not change anything about raising the income market and how much it would cost a government fund for new expenses. It is, in fact, the usual cost-benefit assessment method of the Ministry for tax and reciprocation. I like it. A senator is suggesting that these funds will not be lost in the economy, and I agree with that. Finally, there is always a question, Where does the money go? What percentage of this money goes to worth extra taxes and what goes on in savings, etc.? We haven't made an attempt to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u60	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance. It will, in any case, be no later than in an inheritance tax that the government fund locks into a part of this treasure again. But I think it's now a really big thing that returns in soon, just in the light of how people use the extra crowns they have for a purpose. In the second answer, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: I didn't notice, actually missed the first minute of the talk or so, but in terms of taxable handling of new energy cars, whether any changes were to be expected from previous decisions. I can't find it quickly in the bandormins, and it would be interesting to hear, in view of the highest. A minister has declared that the project all work is a special opinion, whether we can expect to have some changes in the taxation of new energy cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u61	A respectable president. I can answer that, for example, we have not been preparing for an extension of indiscriminate ordinances for e.g. Contact trucks. I notice, however, that producers are becoming increasingly effective in reducing emissions of such vehicles and is actually amazing to see how much change has taken place in a short time, even relatively large and heavy cars have begun to separate one third of what they did before, and here I am comparing contact cars in both cases. However, the major project that awaits us in this area is to make income again in the country, and the long - term development suggests that if we do nothing about it, the income of the state's funds will shrink to 1% of the land production that is available today may be around 30 billion a year, which is not available to finance the transport system. This is what we must do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u62	President. We'll discuss the budgetor here, and I'll start by reviewing something that I really like. It should be noted that the annual growth of tax deficiency and stepmarks in the income tax system will be followed by an increase in the consumption of the price index and the expected production of growth in the economy. This is clever, and by this means two birds are being hit in one strike, maintaining the balance effect of the income tax and reform system, while preventing the non-inferiority effect of an actual taxane. This change is about, and it is clearly stated in a paper, to bond the real tax line, to develop as the tax burden of earning groups grow, and to increase with a much greater weight than the tax burden of earnings. This is a matter of time ago, for it is then the highest. In 2013, Bjarni Benediktsson's financial and economic secretary has increased the tax burden of Icelandic society's income - richest groups year after year, phase by year. How did that happen? Yes, it did, because personal discounts did not follow pay development, because credit levels lost that the real value and limit of child development did not increase to the level of pay and real value, and it was just a political decision. It's a fun word. It's just a classic way of raising taxes on ordinary people while the tax burden is dropped by the highest incomes and the most expensive, it's moved. Long spoke of the highest. Economic and financial Ministers on this real tax crisis as a kind of natural laws, something that just had to happen when the economy went up. But I'm glad that with this bandormism, it's gone in this very clever way and recognized the need to bring in an actual tax scale, so I'm now using wording from the bill's paper. Of course, many of the nation's income - rich families would have liked being spared an increase in tax burden over the last eight years when taxes and expenses were lifted just by the major and wealthiest people in Iceland. It's good, but otherwise it's not a very emotional tapeworm. In the budget, we do not see a real growth in child reforming systems, and in this corrosion, we are very careful to be careful that any kind of movement on money and limits does not involve additional expenses or increased support for children's families in Iceland. There's only money being drawn to it. Children need to continue to live in poorer ways, in contrast with those in other parts of the North countries that view child reform as a generally supportive network, a tool to help with the raising of children, low - income, and middle - income workers. This and, of course, the complete resolution of this financial package when it comes to social housing is not a good way into the collective agreements next year. We also see in the bandormins that it is expected that when nursing is needed rather than being able to concentrate on its basic role, the building of new nursing homes, someone in desperate need of the graduation problems of the Land Hospital and the inhuman pressures of health. It may be that the government looks primarily at increased home services as a solution to this problem, at least That is with them in the Treaty, not even a nursing home and a nursing home. It comes as a surprise, though, that there is no evidence of any great effort in home service on the budget bill. Also, there is nothing to do with a serious climate application, to form when it comes to the green and green dishes. We see only a total of a calm so that this entire budget does not reflect in any way the fact that the government has updated its climate goal now aims to reach a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, which is naturally empty if there is no follow-up for the government's expenses and income of the state. That's what it says. The bill also shows no real efforts to balance the social burdens, to direct the tax system to superpowers, superpowers, or superintendents. Most of all, though, is cold - tempered toward those populations in Icelandic society, especially those who rely on pensions. With the changes in the holiday markets presented here, the post - year situation will be to an eight - fold - high [8 times higher] standard for the income of older people. The public holiday goal is to remain at $25,000. each month and after that, the impairments just start to bite. And what group is that left behind? Yeah, who's gonna bite that? This takes on those who have worked tiresomely all their life. It takes on workers. This affects traders, nurses, sailors, the people who have worked hard and need health because of their retirement careers, their payments, and their pensions. These are the older people who are to be left behind with an eight-fold lower holiday goal. What does that mean, e.g. for an older woman who has raised three children, carried the heat and weight of the household, as is often so often, to raise her children, to work in her low wages? Her pension wouldn't be reduced to 266,000. as the system is today, but let's say it gets 80,000 bucks. From a pension fund, less than 25,000 will be cut. And after that the taxes have also remained before this woman 271,000 K., 5,000 k. A little extra. That's all the benefit of paying off on the pension money our whole life, as our social security system is today. It's under the roof. The secretary of finance is presustaining the taxing of people in this way? And how's the top drop? Secretary of finance, and the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, to maintain this system year after year rather than raise the holiday market for pensions and end long-term blundering between pay and pension? Why is this not done? I've got enough time, looks like I, so I'm also going to take a few words into the microchip, to help people with limited skills. As I mentioned earlier, there is a small income market at the microfunds of 109,600 bucks. It's been on the market for 10 years. It's been in every single budget as high as possible. The Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson has submitted and in every budgetier. Consider a real example of what this means: A woman with 75% disability - let's say she has a temporary job for a month and a half and a quarter of a thousand. paid for the job. So how does this play? Yes, the payments of an insurance agency are reduced by about 53,000 taps. The tax will take 78,000. 27,000 times remain. That's the arrangement. It's under the roof. Is this a fair system for the Bjarni Benediktsson? Can he justify having this system of delinquency continued after an eight - year session in the Ministry of finance? Wants the highest. Is that how a financial minister actually divorces the system when he resigns from office one day? These are questions that arise when this tapeworm is read. I hope it can be the highest. Ministers better explain to us the overall concerns, where he and the government are going with our social security system. Then I'd like to suggest that there are some facts that the system needs to be taken for complete reexamination during the terms, etc. is not a valid answer for eight years in office and now four years with the same categories in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u63	A respectable president. Maybe I'd like to start by saying a few words about the real tax language that we said we wanted to react. In the end, the debate was that it would be unfair to make the paces between the income tax system with one index, the pay number, and the character discount the second, the consumer index, and it is quite true that it has occurred over time in Iceland's real tax business. However, it is not just the past few years; it can be said that this occurred right from the beginning of the local payment system, as it seems that we may have started off completely with high income limits that were spent over a period of time. Let's say that in nearly 30 years, it was backwork. When we go over this period and settle it, I'm sure I'm talking about the tax burden for some individual income groups in the season. However, there are other factors that are even more important. The responsibilities of people, the power of money, are far more important than the tax. How are we able to increase the provision of people? The charges of playing at the end of a month are ultimately far more important than the technical figure tax. In this context, we have been doing a fantastic job and have been doing quite well in recent years where we have passed through collective agreements where there has been a special emphasis on an increase in the lower end of the pay level that has been maintained at the highest rate we've had in Iceland, not just in the North States, but in all the world. Despite all the talk about real taxes, we live in a society where people's income has grown and grown more than elsewhere. All of this can be looked up at the history of tea.is, a web that I took the initiative to put together in order just to be able to take this discussion on the basis of real information.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u64	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister spoke of the real tax crisis as a trend that had taken place for decades. However, if we look back a few years in time, we will see that this is a period where the real taxation did not occur to the same extent as in the past, since there was finally a slightly higher tax burden of the largest tenths, even higher while the tax burden of the income was slightly decreased. This is when a government of equals and left greens was in power. V.E.G. A minister mentioned the history of income, and I was amazed that on that site the exact tax burden between years cannot be seen anywhere. This made me feel somewhat prominent when the site was presented with a pore and hung a few years ago. You see, though, it is the highest. Secretary of the budget is talking about arrangements being made to attack, including By paying taxes, the fact is that the greater the tax burden, the lower the provision price by groups. The tax burden is held back by means of teas, e.g. that in some EU groups, the name pay is higher than the provision income - now I've lost a thread, but it hangs out. It is not possible to break the income from the tax burden, as if provision is the only thing that matters. The tax too is important, and all of these are political decisions about how the good things in our community are divided.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u65	A respectable president. It was, in effect, my point that if we had gone too far in the taxation raise, our income could not have grown. We must aim to improve the standard of living, to ensure that people will enjoy their hard work, and to maintain a fair share of their work. That is why I feel that the only right measure in this subject is their provisional income and their buyfulness over time. If we're in competition with other countries for the tax burden, I think we'll have a very high-end view of our system. But on the tax burden, the development of her time, and including the real tax page, was written a large report by Axel Hall a few years ago -- he's a doctor of income tax and one of our top proficient men to take it in comparison, and did it very exactly -- as it's shown, it's quite true. A senator says, the real tax bill is a fact. I think I'd like to describe it so that we would have had to correct the income tax system after the change taken up with the local payment at the time, where the system would bring the government funds over time simply not the money needed. So much more and more people have benefited from more valuable jobs, we are producing so much more valuable today, so that we have expected people to throw a part of their wages into income tax. This is an important discussion. I say, the budgets are alpha and Omega, of course, but the tax burden is important, especially the development of the tax burden over time, and then we have to watch things like earnings and such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Budget and economic secretary for the answer. He said that income balances are important in their minds, so I expect the current government to start a job, or to renew its vows after four years of work to take decisive action to increase the equation in Icelandic society. The proposed production criteria in Axel Hallur's report, the highest. Secretary of finance says, is a good step for himself, but it has to go further, and I wonder, for example, about that. e.g. to make sure that, although not the result of production, the social security spending level moves a little in rhythm, e.g. a cut-off of character and tax deficiency in the income tax system in order to improve the equation. We need to slow down and stop this long-term blundering in the social security system. I'm the highest. Economic and financial ministers, if they care about income balance, to the fore.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u67	Madam President. I'm going to agree with the highest. Ministers that everything important is the provision income. However, they need to be considered also for distribution, how they interact with different income groups or income groups in the community. No matter how many times I ask, the financial committee refers to the increase in income, and it reminds me that it matters how this distribution is, I never get answers or analysis as a result of how arrangements have taken between those with the lowest income and those with the highest income. It can be assumed, for example, that in the growing stock market in the pandemic, the income has increased considerably. It is obvious that the provisional groups have increased beyond the disposition of the lowest income groups, especially with respect to the changes being made in terms of social security and their rights, which are stated by law to increase the income at least at the rate of pay development or the index of consumer prices, whichever is higher. If pay development is lower than the index price number, the pensions will increase social security according to the index value of consumer prices. If your pay development is higher, it will increase accordingly. For the first time, the lack of appreciation that has been experienced during the past 20 years is recognized and corrected, according to the index of consumer prices. But there is a higher trend, and this is not the case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator can somehow scratch us through this when the ultimate. A minister has something else to say to the case. You have to look into provisional income, do so well here are provisional income, but we will never get the answers on what they mean for the different groups of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u68	A respectable president. I want to apologize. I got confused when I left the room. I didn't realize that I needed to respond. Unfortunately, I think I have to pray. A senator asking the question again. I just thought I was free for the next half hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u69	President. It's just like it's going and it's going to happen. I was talking about my agreeing with the highest. The secretary of finance to make arrangements for an Alpha and an Omega in this. But the problem we have with each other has always been the spread of resources between different income groups. We have seen in the epidemic that capital gains have gone up very much, which means that their revenues have been raising a lot of money. Of course, it's drawing up the average income. You ask this on the budget: Yes, it's a provisional income, it's great, but how it works, for example. to those with the lowest salary, those with the social insurance pension? But there's no answers. We see that the government is correcting its schedule last year. The rate of GDP was estimated to be 3.6%, but it became 4.4%, 0.8% higher, and now to correct it. The problem is that there have been 7.6% in the last year of pay, so if we correct the pay of a pensioner based on GDP, we are increasing it less than the pay grade has been. As a result, it is obvious that the compensation, the provisional income, is increasing less than for others. On top of that was a centennial update made in the biographies agreements and if you convert them to percentages for the lowest paid it is a much lower centenarian number that adversely affects the resources when compared to others. Yeah, like the highest. A minister says, arrangements are important, but then we also need to look at where they are and how they appear to different groups that are involved again in this tax discussion and how taxes may affect different groups. It's a double problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u70	A respectable president. I'll just take my mind off for a second. A senator, these are good comments and thoughts. What we see in the budget bill and the financial agreements we're talking about will lead us to the possibility that this trend in which pensions decline from the lowest wage in society will continue for the next few years. This small addition, shown in the bill on the development of social security, is not enough to stop what is called blundering and cause an increase in social instability. You are also concerned about inequities among older ones, among them. I remember as much as I have seen recent studies showing that there are significantly more upset elderly people in Iceland than there are in many other places. Then there must be something wrong with our social security system, that impairment system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u71	A respectable president. I just want to talk about the lowest level of income, the people in Iceland, the least available income, the people in Iceland who live in poverty. For someone in Iceland, one of the richest countries in the world, living in poverty is shameful. Of course, there are happy reports in this so - called duet that the government is about to double the elderly's credit market between years. However, it is tragic to realize that this operation affects only some 1,400 out of 40,000 elderly people in Iceland. In other words, this sounds like a very generous government that will do much for those living in poverty, but the truth is that the cost of that change is not great. It would have been nearly a series of actions that would have used a broader group of elderly ones. Can be used there, e.g. mention a point also mentioned in the preceding talk, raising a retirement goal from pension funds, e.g. to match the sector income, i.e. Up to about 200,000. per month. Yes, it is shameful how we treat those generations that provided the prosperity we live in today's world. But it is not just the elderly that we do not think well enough. Today there are over 21,000 people with 75% disability or rehabilitation assessments in this country. This number has doubled since the turn of the century and increased each year. About 30% of this group is under 40 years of age, and two thirds are women. This group find it very difficult to get saves elsewhere, but it is the social security system where a labour market does little or nothing against people with limited ability and compensation paid by a government fund very quickly by the desperate ones who try to win. That's the default market for businesses, 109,600 bucks. and has remained unchanged for a decade. If the prices had been followed, this would now be a much higher holiday goal. In addition, the minimum transport insurance of those who receive disability and rehabilitation is about 265,000. in a month for those who are not paid for their so - called home chores but whose duties are 333,000. and those who get these. It doesn't have to have a doctor's degree, like the highest degree. You don't need a Ph.D. in mathematics to find out that this is a poverty trap and that it's very difficult for people in this situation to get out of that trap. It's a trap where even there are no incentives to participate in the workforce. At the same time that these limits remain the same, and the pension is increasing less than the pay box, we see another country rise and rise, as such. housing costs. Here's a perfect opportunity, for a government who really wants to improve their worst, to have a real influence. But when this is discussed, such as. at the highest. Ministers earlier, there is little more to answer than the thought of a new system. In the meantime, the new system, which we received an excellent history lesson about years ago, may be held out only by these blessed invalids and pensioners living in a poverty trap and being able to wait until the government groups meet for real action. But considering how long they took to negotiate between chairs, I wouldn't hold my breath that these changes are happening quickly. As mentioned earlier, only 1,400 of 40,000 in pensional patients face a shift that affects the level of vacation income. I understand this in a way, for older ones deserve not to have to work late in order to live a decent life. But much of it is young people who are interested in having a more active part in society if possible. On the contrary, the present system, which the government continues to starve, is discouraging. Working part - time is not worth the price. It does not pay to make a contribution. We need to give microbubbles the opportunity to work if they wish and thus regain the skills they deserve without our punishing them for it. I hope, therefore, that the government and the committee of the Generals discussing these matters will allow them to look forward to double the number of free incomes as soon as possible, not just double, but to make the default market desperate as they suggest to repair the elderly. I also wanted to talk about child damages. The government talks a lot about what they're doing to raise child reforms. Of course, it is good to be up - to - date. The truth is, though, that these growths are not enough to keep up with rising expenses. It is also important to remember that for many people, especially young ones with children, this is a vital provision for providing a decent life for their children. It is also worth remembering that pediatrics are not really strengths or compensations. We who have children who have grown up are paying, in part, higher taxes as younger people with children are being treated as child reformers. It's a beautiful thing to say that we're raising child support, but the reality is that Iceland is far below the OECD average, so we don't talk about the northern countries with much more support than we have here. Iceland is, for example. The only country in the North, outside Denmark, that reduces child support for income. In Denmark, the sum is much higher than here. We'll cut child benefits right away at minimum wage. The Danes chose interesting amounts of money because they start to cut down on the same amount of money that the senators receive. Maybe we should think, " Is this not something we could record? ' Yeah, it's embarrassing that Iceland has people living in poverty. As we sit here, we have the responsibility to remedy such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u72	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of budget 2022. There, many of the grasses are taught, but I want to start by discussing the events that occurred at the highest level. The secretary of finance, where he began to talk about the disparagement of the system in the past when older citizens prepared a dollar and a quarter of them were taken out. He simply said that the poor had been left behind and that they had lost billions of dollars. It has to be said, just as it is that micromores would have been a major problem with the quality estimates set out in the drafts set out there. This would have resulted in total disaster for them because at the time of this discussion, it was said of specific pressures, of forcing a group of invalids into something they would never be able to handle, and of no control as to whether they could or could not. And nothing to be taken care of, so they could protect themselves if the system they were going to run into doesn't work up. It's also the best when it's the highest. Secretary of finance, as he did in the past, claims that the poor have received remarkable increases. The poor in the last few decades have only received credit for increases in accordance with the index price of consumer consumption each year. Yet, the 69th paragraph contains a clear letter. follow-up of pay development, and not according to the index increase, unless more practical. This has caused some to be in poverty, and others seem to be in very poor condition. It also claims itself that it is an amazing system that this government and governments over the past few years defend themselves when they say to individuals they are going to give strength - whether for purchases, for gas or in some other way, for help tools or for others - that they have fixed a dollar number, and they are not moved for decades or decades. It's a impairment. The income of those in need is greatly reduced. No one's applying for this strength, and no one will get that strength unless they really need it. No one's getting a car scholarship, nobody's getting a drug scholarship unless they need it. It's a terrible vision that the present governments and the last governments will be year after decades, decades, have allowed themselves to be exploited in this way by those who really need this. We'll also see how amazing this system is - like when I went back to the highest level. Minister - when extending temporarily one thing after another. Then they come up from the government here very proud because they're going to raise the budget of the senior citizens from 1,200, 000 to 2.4 million a year, or 100,000 dollars. Up to 200,000. What an oven. What may be the most remarkable part of this is that they say there are 500 million. But has anyone seen the calculation of the cost of 500 million? I haven't seen him, because they couldn't show that calculation, that's impossible, because it doesn't cost a dollar. This is the interests of the State because tax returns, money increase, and other positive things are not included. What's the most important thing about this is that they don't do anything for disability in this context. It's supposed to be the same 109,000 bucks. has been since 2012, which should be at least 220,000 dollars today. if you were right. The exact same is true of these crowning numbers as for older citizens. It's in the best interests of the government to let these people win. If an invalid can win, he will begin to work and pay his taxes, and he will be better. But the government says, "No, it has to be cut off." Why go to work if you know that what you are going to get for a job will be taken from you? I'm quite clear that we're not working here at the council, and we would never put forth as much effort as we would if we knew in advance that we would have no salary, they'd just get paid, they'd be down, we'd never do as much as we can. It's so stupid that it doesn't fuck with a team that this kind of system should be tolerated. The state is ready to pay for an individual who is desperate for his home sitting, and if he tries to work for three months, he will be severely punished. For people who go to the job market, the system is so complicated. Even if you have a stamp, there are certain compensations that will always be impaired. You always get into trouble with the system because it's built up, deliberately and deliberately, that there's not one spot, it's all over the system. That's why you call it a chain impairment. They can bend everywhere. The most ridiculous thing about all of this is that it's not just inside the system, it's also going out into the rural society and in the social relief system there, such as. ... ina special payment. I don't know, but if a Nobel prize was given for a stupid and stupid system, we'd win, right now. And we would also win if a Nobel prize was given for maintaining a completely stupid system and adding it over and over again, adding: we're going to extend this and the rest for temporary purposes. And the interaction between disability reform and pension funds, you've often talked completely about what's wrong with the system. But what does the government do? Yes, we're going to continue with that. And what excuse does it always have? Yes, she has an excuse for not making repairs. It has not been seen to allow disability to obey the government and go to a labour market on their terms, not on the grounds of the disability itself, no, on the terms of the government. Perhaps it is not fair in many ways, and it has been used as a argument, that if we take two individuals in a labour market, one is an invalid, and the other is a full - time free person, and they work side by side, that if the microchip were not impaired, he would be getting more than the working man. There's no problem setting up the system, so it's not. We're supposed to aim, for example. for average pay but not to start immediately. We have this amazing system. Our children's surgery system, for example. Also, one of the odd things, that we're going to cut down on the lowest salary. Two individuals at the minimum rate, their child - welfare programs begin to decline immediately. We're alone in the North with such a weird system. Some northern nations have systems that allow nothing to interfere. Some have a system where the decline begins when the monthly pay is over a million, but we start to reduce the minimum wage immediately. This shows us in black and white that we need to start changing the system so that it's human and easy to understand. Of course, it's very annoying that we have created a system so complex that no one can understand it and especially those who are supposed to live in it. Imagine, when you thought about this inflation blow, that at the beginning of this year, micro-elders and older people were set against a wall, and they were supposed to figure out who the inflation would be in order to set out a proper schedule. Have you seen the secret inflation of the bank or of the bank? They may have been something close to it, but perhaps it would have been easier to ask the poor and older citizens what was the right inflation when they were filling out their tax report and planning their income ahead. The matter is simple now, there is one of the most important factors in this context, and it is to accept and validate the UN agreement on the affairs of disabled people. Well, while you're not, I don't think it's doomed to try to revise the system. Right after the New Year's Eve, we need to get on with the UN agreement on disabled people's issues and then talk about a system for disability and change them, simplify this butt-scraped monster as the insurance agency and the public security system has become simple. It is the simple thing to have it understood by every human child. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. If you're reading financial programs, you don't expect anything for this group, and as we have seen, the government is extremely proud and contented and feels that it has done quite much for this group to give it 1% over insurance, 1% which returns the lowest 1,500 bucks. ... after taxand even nothing after the decrease. I'm sorry, there's nothing in this publication to change that. I think the highest. The minister of finance is just saying that he is proud to announce that this is all that is to come. I hope, however, that this government will ever see light ahead, but I cannot help but doubt it will. They haven't so far demonstrated it, in the four years they've been in power, and they don't show it in the budget, not in these changes. I'm afraid they won't, either, when the bill arrives in 2nd. I hope, however, that they will succeed and will make sure that all those in the social security system, older people who have just sat down in Covid, and desperate individuals who have suffered financial damage because they have also stayed at home, get at least one. 100,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy monotherapy now for Christmas. I don't think that should be difficult, considering the drawer money and the other things the government and ministers have sent away or sprunk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u73	President. Let us go back one year and look ahead in 2021. A 3.4% and 3.6% inflation are expected. The government, the Ministry of Economics, decides, under the Social Security Act, to raise public security by 3.6%, which is the higher number of these two, pay development, and index. However, we now see that the prices of the index price increase by 4.4%, is 0.8% higher than expected. So those who saw an increase of 3.6% a year are disappointed, of course. But then the government comes and says, "Hey, this one, the 0.8%, we're not going to pay you back again." Let's leave it. But let's raise it, let's take that into account now. Let's not increase by 3.8%, as expected to be next year's pay development, which is higher than inflation, which is interesting next year. Then we're going to say: 4.6%, please, because you needed 0.8 percent last year and then we're going to be a little more good and we're going to add a whole percentage to that, 5.6%. Great. Isn't that awesome? That sounds very positive. But as we began to say, what matters is higher, more pay development, or the price of climate change. Between October 2020 and October 2001, the pay rate has been 7.6%. So if you want to make up for it, you're gonna need 3% on top of this. If taken into consideration, 1% would be even more so. How does this offer come into this group, considering? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. I just have to say, I think it's scary. It doesn't matter how this is looked because it was supposed to be 7% last year's minimum, and if we were doing something right, we'd also have a minimum of seven points about this year's date. So, overall, this should be 15%. But I always put a question mark on this. It always gives me chills to think of these percentages because they're low compensations. Those who are in the lowest, the poor are about $250,000. For taxes, for those who are in the best of places there. Then you begin to judge, and they have received a cent for a cut, back with this ostentature, a dollar for a dollar, which is only 100% of property uptake. What are the results of such growths? We don't know, but we know it's too different. Some, of course, get something out of this system, and they can be reasonably satisfied with perhaps 4,000,55,000. In your pocket a month. But others, who end up at the worst and even go to community social benefits and special rents and suffer loss, lose. They can't make any money out of this. The only way for this group is to change the system or, I've always said, to put it through the tax system: let's stop paying taxes poverty. Let's take it through the tax. And with what result? If we take the matter into account, the price will not be affected. But if we put this on the other side, the ball will start rolling. All these percentages are causing the ball to roll and the inflation to increase. And who's sitting the most in the world?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u75	President. Let us consider just the facts. Since 1997-2000, pay development according to the pay number - which is very similar in terms of increases in salary as determined by BHM, BSRB, and ASI - has been on average 6.93% per year, with a mean of 6.93% per year. At the same time, inflation has been 4.29% per year. That was 23 years ago, in 2020. Microenergy pensions have increased by an average of 5.54%, which is more than inflation, but less than wages. However, since there are differences between higher values, inflation or pay development, according to those criteria, it would have increased by 7.47% per year, on average, i.e. An average of 2% of these missing 50% increase is observed. These are the figures that are being talked about in the discussion: $300,000 a.m. tax and inadequacy, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's just the exact number that we would be in if the law had been followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I totally agree, I'm sorry. The worst part of this is that we're not in control. Then we'd have changed it. There's no question, we would've fixed this up a long time ago. It also goes on to say that if the worst were to become part of society, there would have been 350,000. I'm sure a lot of people out there would celebrate them completely, because we're talking about people who even have a little more than 200,000 bucks. ... intheinstructure,thebadst. The most amazing thing about this government is that in the last winter, it was not enough for her to set a dollar in front of the damage, but it gave them 10% less than anyone else. How can you be so real and let this worst class get 10% less than what no one lives on?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. Hearing people's experience is always fun and effective. Now we've got a what? A senator is sitting at a council longer than I am, and I'm sure he heard of many microorganists who just live in very poor places here. When they hear the excuses the government and politicians give them why nothing is done on their behalf, I can imagine why. When it comes to these matters, a member of the body feels a great deal of anger in society. Now we're talking about changing the system, and I want to hear from it. A senator: What are some things the government should keep in mind when building this new system that it uses forever as an excuse? What do they have to babysit so that we don't end up in the same poverty trap and the same shit we're doing today?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I've been at the council for four years, but I used to spend a total of 24 to 1.25 years in the system. I was in self-sufficiency, a national network of motorists. I was in the Kurdic Coalition, I was in the administration of the Quantum Community for a period of time, and I was assigned to a European year project against poverty and social isolation. So I know exactly how things were at the time. It's not that complicated, using it, making a really cool system. Let's do all we can, No. 1, 2 and 3, keep it so simple that everyone understands it. That's no. 1, 2 and 3. But what needs to be done mainly and is the only way to change the system is to talk to those who use the system, leave them with, listen to them. Allow them to point out the best way to change the system. This is as we would say, just now, that we were going to change the committees and all kinds of things, and a meeting and all kinds of things, and we'd decide we didn't have a dog's eye on this and we'd just have to let the desperates do it. Do you think that's what the government would think? Not for a minute. Yet, it is up to them to force a system they've created on the microchip and become totally shocked when the micromaths say: "No, we don't want this system. " They did not talk to them. The time has come for the government to take care of serious business with the Microcollar Union, with those who need to use this system, and listen and apply it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. It is very important that you do so. A senator mentioned, the thing about listening to users of the system. I come from the technical sector and I've learned this exactly over the last 20 years, that if you're gonna create a software that works, you're gonna have to listen to users, or else you're gonna end up with something that never works. But I also wanted to ask what. Senator: We are now in December, and Christmas is coming, and it is not that desperate or older citizens are getting some kind of December satisfaction, like most employees. Well, maybe. A senator can give us a glimpse into how difficult that time is for disability?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator for this. It's something important when you start talking about December. It's built into the system that they're going to pay you out on December. Today's December, I think about 47,000 bucks. unstuffed to give more than 30,000 dollars. paid. But those who dare to have money elsewhere, if they dare to have a treasure of pension, that they might have been forced into a special bank of pensions, to pay for it, to receive nothing. I can point out that when I was in this system at the time, I think I got 1,000 or 2,000 bucks. Christmas bonus - putting it in context of what we get here for Christmas due today. I'd be willing to switch zero here, I'd get zero, they'd get what we get. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u81	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the tour, this is far from the first time we hear the same message from a study. Senator. But I believe they'll be moved there to make their point. I'm just wondering that I kind of experience that the U.S. Congress has rarely been better equipped to express a certain point when it comes to a financial debate in view of how imperfect these laws are that we now address. It'll wake up, for example. so in the big picture that there are no more senators from the states to discuss these matters because it has just been published that this is an incomplete document and changes will come. But I might have wanted to ask, and I'm a little cut to the same knee as they were asleep. The senators who came up before me face to face with what they were doing. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, that if it occurred, there was a suggestion that could reach the longest level in terms of equalizing these groups, disability, and older people, as well. A senator has been tireless of speaking to others, which suggestion would be the main thing? I'm asking because we all talk here like we don't feel it's easy to fix this, but it's somehow a tough system that's stopping us. It's about to break up the various systems of the Board of Management Board, take down walls between recruitment, create a new Ministry. As a result, we have a vague government contract, and we have a plan for a financial bill. What's the point? A senator ready? What would he suggest if he received the wish that there would be only one suggestion that would be realistic and go for the longest in equal terms of those groups he has spoken most?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for a great request because this is the very point of this: What can we do now, and it would work, 100%? It's very simple. The answer is very simple. I don't have the number exactly, but I'd say about $35,000. a decrease in tax. What would that mean? Yes, the largest group of invalids would then be almost taxless. This is the amount, I think most people are in, either with a little less or a little more. Somewhere in this range, I don't have an exact number. That's what I'd do right away. This would return directly into their pocket, directly. If this had been done at the end of the year, a lot of this group would still have before food, which he cannot. I don't know how many of these people have pointed out that after the first week, it's over, and then it's a relief agency. It tells us it's wrong. They tell us that we can and should help these people. But we'll see how much the government's interested in this and all the government's agents here. 1%, that's all that doesn't even turn itself right into your pocket, but it's just a system with chain-mortem declines all over it, and no one knows who gets a thousand dollars of it or nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. It was as clear as it happens. Now we'll see about that. But I wanted to go back a bit in a word. A senator who spoke of the ideal disability and the elderly, of those who make up these specific perimeter groups, how they come from the Covid period. Hv. A senator spoke of this in the context of the possibility of some form of replacement already at the end of the year. Then I wonder: " Do I know who? ' A senator to investigate the circumstances of these specific groups in particular regarding the impairment and effects of Covid in general? We've talked about young people, we're talking about the children, we've focused on the health system, but have the interests of these people been looked at by the eyes of Covid? Do we know what the effects have been there? Or is this yet another one that has been forgotten when it comes to this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, there she met the nail on her head. It has not been done at all, and if we think about it, who is the biggest influence of Covid? Sensitive groups, groups with underlying conditions, people with pulmonary diseases. These people have been locked up, not only infirm, but also in our older people. It has either been necessary to rely on family members to obtain food and medicine or to be sent home expensive. But I ask myself, " How many people in these groups can't even get food, can't line up and ask for food, the food that has not been drove home from relief agencies, so that they don't have a chance. ' So the other day I asked how many people are faced with not being able to choose between a bottle of crystal and maltdose in the fridge, just not being anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u85	Madam President. I'd like to ask if we have a meeting today or if the president has to interrupt this meeting because it seems that all executives have other obstacles than discussing the foundation of the next year's budget. This is where we've been talking for two hours. The only member of the board that's spoken up is the highest. Secretary of finance. Is it possible, then, that the balance of terror between the members of the administrations means that the keys hold immunity, that the classes do not comment on one another? Either way, Madam President, I wish the President's team to overcome this situation because it's incorrigibly incompetent, and it's unpleasant, and there's a disrespect to the council that it's just the government's only going to intertwin each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u86	A respectable president. There is a democracies in hearing only the viewpoint of government opposition, and certainly the highest. The minister of finance, in this important discussion, gave his witnessing talk. You wonder where all the directors are, if they're just not there for work. I can't see them in this room. They are not here to listen to the views of the government, it is not that they are spirited to hear what we have to say and therefore have not spoken up. They're not on the rosary. They haven't even spoken up. They haven't even used their counterclockwise. I cannot believe that they have no opinions about how to handle the government's money next year. I'm just having a very hard time believing that, a respectable president. I'm calling for explanations on these alibis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u87	A respectable president. I want to agree with this, too. I think that the explanation that non-continents may be in this room is that they are ashamed and afraid to participate in the discussion of older citizens and desperate people. But from my old experience, I'm starting to think that they're not ashamed of anything, they're kind of proud of how they come here, I think there's three tops. Ministers already made this a 1% extra for disability. But there is always hope. There was one member of the council in the hall earlier, and I think that chair member is going to be seen again in the hall, and there is perhaps hope that there are others who show up. I just think it's probably a matter of fact, these are their budgets, that the senators show up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u88	Madam President. I come up here to agree with those words that have been dropped here, and I sort of declare that I'm strange. In view of the fact that those taking the lead of the board of directors are expected to make a big change in this financial bill and in view of the changes that are taking place and the short time the government has had, the alleged short time, and what it is now, I wonder that the senators are not interested in the discussion and that they are taking their stand. I realize they're doing a double share on a budget board. It is not a mere controversy. They don't have the language room out to the community. She's here. I'd be interested to hear the viewpoint of the majority of the segment that, yes, will overcome the big changes in its own bill. What are they? What are people thinking? Or is this a conversation that can't stand the light of day? Is that why we sit here, the government side, and we discuss matters without the presence of a member of the board?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u89	President. In 1st. conducted in a court of law to the council. This is the major part that has taken over to hold the Council's program in a particular hostage session, to control the subject and the discussion, the handling of matters in committees and such. I'd think they'd want to handle matters at least, but that's not really true. We live as council members simply surrender their authority to their ministers, trusting only what they offer in spite of their coming here and waving: "Look, here's a job we're going to do. Are we not exposed to any political opinions? Is this just an unconcerned reading project we're dealing with here? You sometimes feel that way when you're working for Congress. Now it's time to finish, finish, stamp, and all the work you've been working until it's really just a specific formality that had to go through, just to endure, wait on the way somehow until it's considered a good time to finish. Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u90	A respectable president. I want to agree with what others have. Senators have been referring. For us, who are new here and are coming to this workplace, it's amazing to see what kind of disrespect you have. Generals show what we are here to contribute. It's not just that it's a whisk. Senators from the Board of Directors, who have a message from their platoon leaders that they don't show up here, but they seem to be the highest. Ministers, even the highest. Ministers making a case don't have time to listen to what others have to say. It's a total disrespect, even for us replacements who thought it was a good job at a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u91	Madam President. Of course, there is no message from members of the board that members of the administrative committee are not to participate in or observe, depending on how they choose to do so. At the very least, there is no such thing on the part of a platoon of left green and that I don't keep from anyone else. I've been here to observe this discussion today and will continue to do so but I think it is important to get the matter done quickly and safely to the committee, of course, so that those members of the council it chooses can present their views in the II Parliament's speaker. I'm sure it's possible, and I'm watching the conversation, and it's important when we take the case to ourselves on a financial and business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u92	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here and thank you. For coming here and participating in this discussion, a representative of the New York City District of the North, the Árnadóttir Þóra Year's Daughter. I'm glad to hear that it's not a matter of telecommunications here. But you're absolutely right. Of course, it is urgent that the committee should be contacted at work, but because these have actually been a promise that they would have made changes, you would have previously thought that this was an important part of that work. But I'm glad to hear it. A senator of the left green sits here watching. I would have preferred that she join her colleagues in the discussion because, of course, members of the Commission must have an opinion of the budget that we are working with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u93	A respectable president. I hear that it is called after our involvement in the administrative part of this discussion, and I'm sure it is. I can promise you what. Congress members are here observing this discussion, even though not everyone is in the Senate Hall or is asking to get to the rosary. There has been an excellent talk about a bill that is closely linked to the budget, which, of course, we spent a considerable amount of time discussing it. And only because of what. Some members of the council mentioned who were here for the first time and began to wonder a little about the discussion, but this is often the case with 1st. often it is not long to be exaggerated. People are respecting their views and viewpoints on what is happening here, but the deepest job takes place in the Committee itself. I just enjoyed my time. The Economic and Business Committee during the last term, and there was a very exciting work on this fine bill. And I'm now on a budget board where we're dealing with the budget. Then you assume that just when we get to the bottom of this matter and bring it in through 2nd. The discussion will be even greater in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u94	President. Yes, I'm glad there's no more order for members of Congress not to show up here on a speaker's chair. But is that just a lack of interest? Haven't you been talking about something very important and interesting here, like you'd think? We're on 1st. But there are three discussions of law. We can't escape the 1st. Just because, let me tell you something about these important songs. Although there is still some work on the committee and on the 2nd and 3rd. ... we've had quite an experience that the president has complained in the first term... since the vote is still another debate about the bills or suggestions. But this is simply because it is only one who is involved by some member of the council during a discussion that is often missing. So if they're all paying attention, what's the matter? Are we saying some strange things here that aren't worth pointing out, something that needs to be taken into account in the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u95	A respectable president. I agree with what more people have said here, and especially with words. paritaprevir The Gísli of Rafn son of Ólafsson, who is, like me, new during this council. The answers have also surprised me from what happened. The members of the major body who have come here and described themselves as listening. Yet, they do not seem to see reason for saying so. I'm not on a budget board, but I'm very interested in this discussion. I would have thought there should be a debate where we hear both sides, not just history, and then the smaller parts of the council are terribly unhappy with everything and the more part has nothing to say about it. I am curious about the answers and what more part of the council has to say today, explaining that I miss that participation in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u96	A respectable president. We here discuss an enormously important matter related to budgeting and how economic matters will be handled for the next four years. Government, including the highest. Secretary of the budget, has spoken of this as one of the most important projects in the next few years; of promoting sustainable and secure state, of the economy. I was earlier shocked that there is only one member of the head of the board of directors who has a more than 38 members of the council who are involved in the discussion and who is married to many men, the highest. Minister. But I would have thought that the interest in the discussion would be more than a testimony to members of the council who have expressed a great deal about the importance of reducing expenses, reducing spells, or expressing concern over the issues, when we address here a bill that raises the spells and expenses of home, small and larger companies in the country. I would have thought there was more interest in this urgent matter that we're discussing here. It's not just some extra issue. It's a big deal we're dealing with. So in view of all this, it surprises me a little bit, but not least in the campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u97	A respectable president. Yes, it is good and good to listen. But we are in a seminar, and she must understand the experience of being spoken to deaf ears when we do not even receive an answer. Not one member of the council is on the rosary except for the traveller, the highest. Minister, not one answer from the superintendent. It's hardly a sight in this room and in a house. It's one thing to listen to us with one ear, but it's another to participate in a democratic discussion of how we're going to conduct our society, what the plans of this new government are. They're just on the finish line for Christmas with a document that people say is not quite ready and has nothing to say about what is being added, what is the vision of this greater part. What are you going to offer us? What exactly are you talking about? What do you have to do? Senators since you're not here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u98	A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier, there's been a message for members of the Cabinet, from the head of Congress, not to participate in the discussion. I have heard that message myself with my own ears, and I have talked about it with others at times. Councilmen from those categories. So don't try to deny it. There are nine members on the budget. There are six of them from the greater part of the world, three of them from the side of the board. We are 63 members of the General Assembly. We want our voice to be heard too. That's why it's important to wake up. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers take the time to participate in this discussion and listen to what we have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u99	A respectable president. I think that everything involved in the budget, everything that has been put forward here, is cut off from the last financial programme with slight changes. I just don't think the government is ashamed of this, so I don't want to talk about it. They see it's so lame they can't even come up here to defend it. Of course, there are all the largest groups left behind, those who really need something. I say for my part, if a man were on the other side of the table, that I wouldn't be heard, let alone try and defend these miserable financial laws that have been submitted. They are only for those chosen but not for those who need help most.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u100	Madam President. I'd like to respond to a word or two. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter back there. She noted that the main weight of work, the main work, in terms of budgets, is in the committees, on a budget for filming. Just like what? paritaprevir According to Gísli Rafn Ólafsson, in the past, the greater part has put their full strength to the full, despite the fact that it is not the norm, in order to be represented there and to increase the share compared with what has been reduced. Thus, because of the main importance of the work, the opposition to the government does not have the opportunity to promote viewpoints as strongly as in this chamber. So I agree with the words of the senators who have spoken here that it is surprising that members of the board view themselves as one of the plungers and a stamp pad for what comes from the stewards. Here at the conference hall, there must be a more dramatic, meaningful, and deeper discussion of the budget. In order for this to happen, it would be nice to arrange for members of the administrative body to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u101	Madam President. Except for the ministers who were called up to counter the budget for the weekend, no one spoke to the board on Saturday. There were two members of the board at 4:00 p.m. on Friday, and there was no manager after dinner on Thursday, except for one who took any answers. Thus, it is not only in this matter that the government is trudging and making wealth but also in the laws that are the other sides of the government's budget. Madam President. The Senate took its longest break in over three decades after it was delayed in spring. For six months, people did not have to come here to discuss the evolution of society, in this democracy seminar. For six months we were unable to maintain our government. We are at the sixth meeting of the season, and are people asking too much of us to go to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u102	A respectable president. I'm sorry I've been a little late for this. I wanted to point it out. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson over the issue of government is far from a time of clock punching. If the bills are checked, they would go to the ground. The Economic and Business Committee during the last term clearly shows that the Economic and Business Committee brought a number of changes to a case under discussion. Of course, it is very popular in a political act to talk about the administrative body being a timer and that people don't show up for work when they don't sit in a Senate hall and do not object to the administrations of government opposers who are actually giving the same speeches as they did in the campaign. In 1st. The budget was just a really small new thing that came out. But I look forward to taking the discussion on the committees as well as on the 2nd. Here at the Senate Hall. I truly agree that this hall should be a seminar. It's supposed to be a symmetrical, fun discussion, and I'm ready to participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u103	President. It's interesting to get values from the contribution you make here in the II Parliament's symposium from time to time. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, perhaps she will observe them only the two things that I intend to add mostly to the 1st. ... aboutthiscase. First of all, I'm going to discuss a little bit about the price of a dollar tax update, which is always very interesting every year. The increase in 1.7 billion is discussed here. every year including the side effects on sumy tax. This effect is estimated to be 0.08%, that is not exactly said in the report, but I understood from the prehistoric point of view that it was the share, not the proportion, but the price of the index value of consumer prices, the inflation in reality. Without anything else, there would be 0.08% inflation just because of the petals. There are 37 or 38 billion who will be paid and paid for in the budget bill that would be translated, legally calculated, that it is half to 1 billion, or that is the expected biotransduction effects of these crescent changes in the next year's budget bill. This level of centenarians needs to be taken into account next year. So 1.7 billion in income decreases by half to 1 billion or so, as this also affects pay as such. Inflation is one thing, however, the price of development is also. There's an increase in prices that affects the level of purchase. Minister cares so much. There are 2.8 billion or so of gross domestic product that is being indulged slightly. I find this interesting in the context of things. The other thing I'd like to discuss is this change in interpretation of the law, especially the 69rd paragraph. Social Security Act. I was only discussing this with a few members of the council, but I would like to review it in a more complete way in a talk. This is about the change in various laws due to budgets for 2022, and it has never occurred before that the prices of climate development and pay development in the past year have been raised social security rates for the next year. It's happening for the first time now, really. It has been a year in which the government has decided to raise the limit mentioned in the law, that I think, six times in the last 23 years or so. Then this is the seventh time it would be done. But we don't know what the real deal will be, and we don't know if this increase is going to exceed real-estate inflammation and real-estate development. Whether this is really an increase beyond that or not remains to be seen. But this is, as I say, the first time you look back and say, "It was expected less inflation than it turned out, we increased your social insurance pensions according to inflation rates that became higher. This difference is 0.8%, and we should take this into account by the next year and add it to 0.8% by the year 2022. Very good, great. This is how I have understood this article, page 69. Social Security Act. It states that the improvements in social security should be minimized to the extent of higher, GDP development, or pay development. I know that pay development is a very complex concept, and in fact, there is no particular calculation of what it really is, so the next thing it is, it may be based on a pay number. There are a number of analyses in the unions that have shown that the rise of the number of their members escapes approximately exactly at the pay number. Thus, it is very close to using a reference to pay-effective development. At least it's not far off. So this is clearly the government's decision, to reinvent the 69th par. Social security laws without being changed on this bill. That's interesting to me. I would have expected that, because these laws are being interpreted in a new way, the adjustment would have been needed to build a foundation for that new decision. Unless it is just the government's decision to do this differently, which is not exactly what we have been introduced to. We've been informed that this is another 1% under the government decision. It's just misleading. The problem was that in 2021, inflation was higher than expected, as was the case with pay. During 2021, 3.4% of pay development was expected. Three.6% of inflation was expected. Therefore, social security benefits were increased by 3.6%, but not according to salary development of 3.4%. Now we have prices up to 4.4%. All right, great, that's more than 3.6%. Although it is not discussed in the budget bill, it is possible to enter the Haguen website and look at changes in pay numbers that are the most accurate of numbers we have on how pay is developing. If we look back this year from the latest figures in October 2021 and take October 2020 to October 2021, this change is equivalent to a 7.6% increase, not 3.4%, but 7.6%. So the original number used for inflation, the anticipated inflation, which was 3.6%, should be referred to at the highest non - 4.4%, but the approximately 7.6% or so, salary development. It's about 4 percentage points, not 0.8. I'm particularly discussing this bill because I feel that new legal interpretation is going on without changing the law. I find it interesting to do so. That's what I talked about in return to what I was doing. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson what history tells us about the exact changes made each year. The average pay development, the mean of lissentan since 1997-2020, is 6.93%, the pay number. It's a year. The rate per year of inflation in percentages of itself over the same years is 4.29% on average. If we were to use the higher number, it would not be enough because the level of inflation varies from higher to higher. In light of this, the mean increase in micro-energy consumption over the same period has been 5.54%. It is higher than inflation - which is good, it is the power to buy, it is awesome - but it is lower than the pay experience of 6.93%. That's bad, it's a chicken shrink compared to a mean pay market development. So, yeah, the power of money, that's great, but no, not as good as for others. The problem is that the higher the figure, whether pay or inflation, was to be targeted, as in some cases inflation is higher than the pay sector, which should have been a mean of 7.47%, not 5.54% as has been actually done. That's about it. 2 percentage points difference in sums up to about 50% will increase the amount after a total of over 20 years. And really, more, I only counted 20 years, but it's 23 or 24 years, so it's more than that, it's only 20 years, and it's summer up to 50%. That's very serious to me. You hear it in the entire business discussion of buying and choose exactly this group that there is a total of 300,000 dollars, 220,000 bucks. in a basic pension, and you see that people who have anything to say about 200,000 bucks. If we put 50% on top of it, we've got 300,000, huge. These are the exact numbers that are being considered should be in force and would be in force if they were merely by the law of the law and raised under pay or inflation, whether higher. However, this has not been done. It has just been raised according to expectations, based on predictions of what will be the pay and the price of development, not the actual GDP and pay development. Today, however, that is being changed. Now going back, we say, in 2021, more inflation was expected, and we are going to increase accordingly. Great, this is a great conclusion. I really like this. It's very much in the way of the Law on Social Security Act, except for what's here completely ignored the pay development that was the larger size. With this, the government is making a decision, or whoever decided to revise the social security laws, to look to how this is actually going to rise but to select the lower figure, not the higher number, which is very interesting. - I don't see that some member of the board wanted to ask me or discuss this further in reply. Let's see how it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this speech. He's a senator who's getting a little jumpy on the budget board, including in connection with the corrosion. I come from two different angles. On one hand, I would like to ask about my drinking. It is increasing in accordance with the merit standard of the bill, although it is lower, which is positive, than merits really are. But I would like to ask, " Does he think that it is justified, first of all, that the income of alcohol paid was more in this year than for a long time, including a long time? ' with high domestic consumption due to the epidemic. Then there's the other question, so why? A senator: Does he feel justified that next year's alcohol charge will only be cooled in view of the fact that this is the least in small companies, small operators, in the restaurant industry, and also tourism? Whether he envisioned that he could have brought that support into the next year by freezing the alcohol charge, at least In that year. Then there's another, I see I have 30 seconds left and I'm going to use it. I just want to go over the carbon charges. I don't feel like I'm missing all this stuff about the input of carbon charges. The policy of our restoration is that we have, not a question, to use motivation, green motivations, and charges as long as there is no additional law on the whole system as such, rather go into changing the system. Got it. A senator is missing what exactly the fee is supposed to be? Then where could I, e.g. Looking for it, because I can't answer any of those questions on the part of the majority? [[The president calls.]] Where could I possibly look for information on what exactly the carbon bill is going to go and where do I see political policy on the carbon account?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u105	President. That is exactly a very interesting question: How can I see what my taxes are about? It is simply very complex, especially now that these so - called marketd incomes, ear - bound income, mostly in whole. That means that although the state is taking a carbon charge and it may go into some carbon balance project, there is not a direct connection. We should be able to see it, there should be obvious at least This amount should go in between but e.g. By means of the fuel tax, transport is more than collected from the fuel tax, adding. You think: All right, either you're not taking enough of a carbon charge or a fuel charge or something like that or there are other reasons. However, those reasons need to be political in a certain way, and they need to be explained, and we simply do not get this explanation. Such explanations should always be available in a financial program, for there governments set up their spending policy and also on income. Then we need to explain that we are going to set a carbon charge in order to get some results in those costs. And exactly the same with the liquor. Perhaps it is in order to finance a predestination work. But we see the cost being raised now without any further progress in preemptive work. Perhaps this is because they have done quite well in preventing alcohol, especially among younger people, but they are still waiting for an SAY, e.g. There seems to be no policy, just somehow: let it be as it is, take all the liquor, and use it to prevent it. So something like it. That's exactly what the explanation is for. These explanations need to be available now that taxes have been canceled. And they're missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u106	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to say, for example. ... withthealcohol that I have agreed with the highest degree. Secretary of finance that we have reached the edge of the budget for alcohol in Iceland, especially when we have vague policies behind us. One year we'll say yes, we have to put on a front work, we'll have to add to the FEE, and then there's nothing to do about it. There should be a more context. Then, too, what we have been calling for in other areas, and that is a measure of success. It's as if the only thing coming from the government is to cover expenses. And all right, all right, let's talk about it. Did the service improve? Shorten the ledgers? Will the roads be better? Will there be a better way to create communication in the country? I feel that there is a lack of this success that has been called for so long, actually for a very long time, over the years, if you start looking up in yourself. I feel like it's missing. There's a bit of a rush in it and don't think about the big movie. We must not forget that Iceland is a high tax country compared to OECD. I'm not saying that's a disgrace. I know that we Icelanders want to pay taxes as long as they have a lucrative investment and a powerful social service, whether in education, innovation, or health. But I think it's in the air. After all these transitions and good efforts, including half the world's highest. Secretary of finance over the years, to add the budget, as with government laws, I feel free of charge, and I don't feel that transparency is increasing with the years, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u107	A respectable president. I agree that alcohol costs have come to the highest level and that there are really some limits to how it works, especially when you try to see its purpose. If the purpose of the alcohol charge is to be reduced directly, and this is done by having alcohol costs, we know that it does not work partially. But if it is meant to finance prevention and to react to the damage alcohol causes, there is no logical relationship. That's exactly what's missing. There is no need for these governments to explain to us that there is a fair price for a service that we choose democratically. It's the foundation of the Community Convention that we're not making just any decisions here that we can think of, because I thought it was smart, I'm gonna do it this way. There has to be more democracy in this. That's what elections are all about, and democracy is about more than just having elections every four years. This is the core of the 2015 modified law, the government's legislation on public finances, that governments set a clear policy on what the government wants to achieve and explain to us how society will be better, more economically, more efficient, more productive, richer, happier, etc. By following and funding government policies, for in some respects it is financed by e.g. A drink. And if the alcohol costs more than is used for prevention, you can say that drinking is a means of making road repairs. [[The president calls.]] Is that a fair use of taxes? I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u108	A respectable president. This is where they spoke. Secretary of finance to want to extend the campaign all of you to work. It's starting to be heard in many parts of the world. This caught my attention and I want to draw attention to the straitjacket that seems to hold us back on other expenses, but it seems that there is room because this effort has cost 10 billion dollars. I think it's very important to keep it up, even if much positive things have come out of it. There has also been an excellent heartbeat in the construction sector, and it is not easy to obtain industrial workers these days. I'm calling it up because more people talk about it, e.g. on the budget bill, that a lot of Covid arrangements are running their course because of the unemployment process. I mention this, a respectable president, in spite of 20 billion dollars. Better supplies last year than expected has been at the highest level. In the latest edition of the budget, a minister stated that in no way can be moved because of inflation, including for our most vulnerable groups. Theoreticians and older citizens see just over a billion dollars. Added to his terms in these funds, despite 120 billion dollars. survival benefits, for inflation in the land is too great for the state to move. These people aren't in the house, they're trying to survive. We're talking about 1 billion compared to 10 billion people who all worked for Covid, and now they're talking about restoring and continuing. All right. But let us think only about the context of things when talking about the amount. That was even. Talk about working with everyone that it is not only an important effort to stimulate the job but also because it reduces black employment. Consider, to the end, how reasoning is here. In other words, we would like to encourage individuals to pay dues with discounts, and we are ready to give money into the system that could be expanding so that their people will have legal obligations. However, we do not have the means to allow the microchip to get more work. There's something wrong with this argument, I'd like to say. Above all, in the highest order, the inflation that now retains financial resources can be attributed to these vulnerable groups. Minister, but does not seem to hold back the potential funding of a sector in which there is an updating to the level of property gains in a whole other group, in an apartment market and on the side of a stock market. Most poor people do not have housing, and if they have housing, it is not the most expensive building that has increased, and they do not have much savings or much money in a pension fund, where, of course, property has gone up. Older people are talking about people who don't have enough pension money to survive and have to trust in public insurance but who get little or none of their pension incomes, let alone a raise in property, because the limits don't move. Thus, these groups are not added to the pressures on the entire system because of the weight of inflation among the individuals who have mentioned among the hands. A respectable president. The progress of a nation is evidence of how well it cares for its most vulnerable groups. This bill has no progress. This is called paying the risk of one group at another's expense, since it is the government's actions that cause today's inflation and the rise in property today. The decision to direct the most support for the economy through the banking system and the Seam Bank led to a large proportion of capitals running into a property market - property market created by the State - with a framework that has built up today's market economy, a framework that has certainly made it possible for people in many places to invest and gain fruit. However, this is also a box that made it easier for those who were better off in the previous year than many others were able to add more fully to the government's activities relating to Covid. The same people could also repair their homes with a discount. Now this frame, this market, pressure on inflation numbers, and restrains our efforts to advance and ensure progress, according to the definition that the nation's progress is based on how well it cares for its most vulnerable groups. Another way to define progress is how well we think of our young people, the young people who constantly need to listen to the importance of running faster for older groups because demographics are working against them. It is noted that the production has never been more important, the use of education, but the increase, the extracurricularity, the faster application in large issues that determine the future of the country and the nation, in order to create climate for industrial development, is currently in a state of inflation. Despite the big issue of government, no plans have been added since spring. The hypocrisy is that this group, young people, like older people and invalids, is now taking a double blow. The government is in a straitjacket of future investments for these young people because of the inflation of an apartment market that is most affecting young people. During the past 30 years, prospectors have increased by almost 50% - 50% - beyond human resources, and increases are even higher, almost twice as much, among young people under 40. An example of the effect of inaction on housing in Iceland, which has created this cycle, this multi-developed cycle of residence prices, pay increases and prices in these budgets, is that it has required reimbursement of the estimated financial expenditures due to their inflation, because the inflation rate was 1.7% higher than expected. This additional cost offlation comes with an cost of 3.6 billion. It is as much as the government puts it in an investment home in this country through the general apartment system. - I repeat, there's as much extra prices going out of the state fund because of this spiral we're in, and going into the general apartment system this year, a system that could hold back the claims of promotions, a system that could put us in a position where we would not remain in these increases. Here, instead of simply returning back and waiting for some fear of the future, instead of simply pointing out the young people and saying that they should run faster, be more creative, let the fear of the future go on. Where is the responsibility in this case? These groups, young people, and so micromanagers and older people, who have no high income, are so united somehow on the grounds that there is no room to stand with the most vulnerable people in the country because they add to the debt of future generations. Thus, it is possible to avoid the responsibility of changing the systems, to strengthen them, to jump up, to assure our young people, new generations, that this is not wise. Real leaders understand the big picture and recognize their own responsibility in this case, which is this straitjacket we are today because of the inaction of large community duties, such as the local market, because of the apathy of building a real child reform system that reduces the burden of young people who are supposed to run faster and buy an expensive apartment. Tensions have become so intense that the application for these same future generations is holding back. Here, governments must encourage groups to break this vicious cycle rather than back up and wait for our community treaty for youths, young and old, to break down, for the parish for young and for the future, and for the defence for those most vulnerable, it seems impossible, for the State is becoming inflation. Something is wrong when governments cannot remove the economy and society from a vicious circle. There is something wrong when governments experience the loss of power, just look out the window, and point out the danger in the future chicken court. There is something wrong with governments when they think that big - mindedness is easy, that attendance opportunities are shown only when circumstances are simple, and that they will wait until they lie down to do something about it. Something is wrong when governments can only talk about the cost that is coming in rather than about how we're going to be able to care for and change our situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u109	Madam President. There is something else to mention here at 1st. But there are seven things I want to come in especially. First, I would like to introduce to you what was presented in the talk of history at the highest point. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, and about the senior citizens' free income. In the talk of the Supreme Court. A minister reported that the cost of raising the payout target from a hundred thousand dollars was found. every month for 200,000 K. about 540 million a year. On the contrary, I asked the highest. The minister would have tried to get to the bottom of that, with all the warnings that such a thing calls for, to recognize the cost of this operation. The answer was that it was seen to be that the operation did not produce other changes in people's ways. Of course, that's not how things happen in the real world, so I think it would be wise if they did. A financial and business committee would call on specialists, I'm a random Professor Ragnar Árnason who has studied these matters and examined into the basement, and would try to control the natural effects of these changes that are likely to occur. I'm thinking that this operation's net exposure will be very low. Then it is overlooked what can be moved into the plus side of the chain in terms of health impacts and the social factors involved in the fact that adults can stay in a job market for longer hours, those that both want and can. So I'd think it would be wise to do that. A financial and business committee would take this into consideration, since the Ministry of finance has not done so. I also came into the same room in answer to the Supreme Court. The financial minister's attitude regarding the tax treatment of new trucks might have been particularly concerned about how a link car, not mentioned, would be treated in this bill. They are looked forward to being very rapid through the years, and at the beginning of the next year, February 15th, it reminds me that there is a set standard for them. The trucks'representatives have reviewed it in my opinion, in a somewhat convincing way, that it would be wise to watch in order to see that the receivers would still enjoy coincidence, the Driver's relationship has mentioned two years, while the quality of these cars and the technical development of the manufacturer is reaching bridges between the first and second generation of the linking cars and the clean electrical cars. I think it would be wise to do that. However, there would be only one turn to try to identify it and call out to those who know best about what is happening to the producers and so on along the streets, so that we don't lose the jam. If there's a goal on another level to make gas and diesels, then I think it would be wise to try to keep the rhythm that has been taken. But in this context, the highest was mentioned. Similarly, a minister is concerned that it was important to get the income part off vehicles and drive on some crucial prospect. In that respect, I agree completely with the highest. Minister. During the last term, I personally gave talks in a number of places where I described a surprising memory that this had not happened and was not in progress during the initial term. V.E.G. The local secretary of transportation, the present minister of wood, spoke as if it were all under consideration and this was being considered. But when you look at the real situation, it seems that this is going on in the Ministry of finance now. Of course, that may be the wrong idea for me, but I felt it was in the highest words. Secretary of the budget that this policy is really being viewed today. In this context, I want to say that it had to happen in the last term. It was often stated that we were behind schedule or after what was desirable in those areas. But I am glad to declare that this work has finally started and redirected these points that are about to be treated by connectors but also on a smaller scale, of the highest. A minister is here in the hall, that the vehicle and traffic are highly taxed in Iceland, and that they will be in mind with the policy being involved in the Ministry of finance. Besides, I'd like to step into the elderly's budget. There is yet another extension of the creation fund's income being used for management. I know the plan was that we'd be out of this position for quite some time, but we're still here. It is vital to consider this in the context of the failure of the new budget for the building of a living home, for example. Here we heard examples in the budget debate how it has not been possible to start a project in Smokejanestown, just because I remember an example at the moment, but there are, of course, more around the world. So this should be taken into context. Of course, I must make my annual comment on the increase in radio charge. It goes up from $18,300. in 18500 each payer, about 2.73%, and there are various ways of handling the Kingdom News's precipitation on this market. I'd like to mention the host tax listed on the bill, saying that the tourist service is still receiving its tax free and that the household tax can be collected on December 31, 1923, which says more than two years. I think it should at that time take a good look at the fact that this tax is permanently eliminated. I think he's a small figure in himself, his collects are complicated and on the count of unreasonableness. An action has been taken that may be to some degree equal to this. In the beginning it was, as we know, the same price in the camproom as in the most expensive hotels in the country, and then in the other stripe, it just increased the ambiguous level that was already there. I don't trust myself to refer to who won that assessment, but I recall that it was an assessment of the host tax a few years ago, if it wasn't just a national accountant who passed the sentence that this was having the most unacceptable currency of the state and the crevice levels and the cost of collections would be proportionate with the most known of the currency. Then, of course, there is a reason to mention that carbon charges are raised by 2.5%. I, along with my middle group members, have suggested a down payment every year for the past four years, and I wondered what the evidence is about paying this price follows the general 2.5% rise. If the highest. I have to ask a minister of finance to hear me, would it not be possible to reduce the price in view of the fact that environmental Prime Ministers have not been able to detect the results of any certainty paid during the past term? It's been asked repeatedly. I think it has to end this place with a price, which is intended to affect the work of people and businesses and the conduct of people and companies and since their professional ministers have repeatedly had to answer that it is difficult to assess the results of the remuneration, that we here at the council wonder about taking back what carbon pay and hopefully, inevitating it, end up in many ways of unreasonable taxation as set up. Finally, I want to introduce a general point involved in this annual increase in terms of prices. Now we're talking 2.5%, and I'm wondering if it's the best. A minister can hear me, wouldn't it be possible to skip this price update? We look forward to a rising inflation that is driven by elements we know, increases from abroad, shelter prices, and so forth. I'm not sure it's wise for the government to add weight to the scales by allowing the entire population to rise automatically. So if I specifically pointed out that it would be within the palm of a person to let the carbon tax be paid and to make the radio bill fail to accept this rise, there would be no obvious argument in either case. It's known to be the highest. Bjarni son of Benediktsson took at least one if not two years during the 2013/3016 season in which an automatic remuneration was unplugged. I think it would be wise in the present situation to do the same in this event so that all these costs are automatically raised now do not rise. Just to mention that there are quite a number of things that fall under there; the carbon charge, alcohol and tobacco tax, the general tax of gasoline, a special tax of leadless gasoline, a special charge per liter of other gasoline; the oil tax goes up, the cost of a mile, and so on, it could continue to be counted in connection with driving and driving. The car's pay is rising, the cost of public monitoring of financial activity and return power, and so on. I think it would have been wise for the current government to send a message to those who run their business on these grounds that now the operation would need to tailor, however, an increase of 2.5% would not be required. Then, at the end, I'd like to point out one thing, and I'm going to look at it and maybe do it between discussions and possible if you look into an audience of the Economic and Business Committee, but here's the cost of greenhouse gas emissions. It goes up 68% between the ages, looks to me, from $3.430. for each ton of emissions to 5,767 k. Looking forward to this development of the market price of such units. In this context, I would like to review a discussion I had with the highest degree. Probably a year ago, a prime minister may have made sure that we had obtained and bought the release materials that we were assigned to buy in order to level the earlier parts we have been assigned to. The answer was no, and I know that the answer to that question was no at a time in 2021. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, watching that the price of these elements has increased by 68% between the years: Have these units not yet been established, or is the aim in itself that the greatest cost to the state fund is at hand because of this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. There was one thing I would do, both in speech. A senator, and as it were, we're standing at the top. Financial and economic minister, it seems that it is very difficult for the government to answer the impact of certain measures or to answer the type of change in action. I was studying at the University of Copenhagen just over 30 years ago, and then I heard that the state and the council had a technical instrument, a model to answer such questions. This model was Adam, who, by permission of the president, stood for the Danish Aggregate Model in the first place. Didn't that have a good Danish accent over there? Now I know for certain that such a model was created here in the country after the collapse so that better decisions could be made on what had to be done to save the homes. Apparently, the plan was always sending such a model to the Haust Room, but there was never any money to keep this model in mind. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he not think it is time for us as members of Congress and the government and the Ministry to have such a tool to view the impact of action?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. At first, of course, it is only a responsibility for us senators to make decisions without knowing how they will affect them. Now I don't know this Danish tool as a boy. A senator referred to, but I believe, in any case, that it is reasonable to suggest in this case a somewhat rigid request, so to speak, regarding the ability to analyze and explain the effects. I'm sorry, for example. completely ridiculous, as I entered my answers to the highest. Secretary of finance earlier today and in my speech earlier, that only the gates are seen in connection with the rise in senior income markets. It's just completely preposterous. It doesn't hold any sense. But there it is now. I just reiterate what I said before that I'm saying that the net supply of this operation is negligible, if any, if any. Similarly, we find ourselves in the position of enforcing various rules and actions. Various covenants are designed to make it difficult to declare opposition to induction without being reputed. Without being against the point of the matter, or just saying some covenant that is being made up of, you can't afford to be in the position of not having an idea, or at least little, although only what the economic effects of such a decision are, in most cases it should be the easiest to approach. Although there is always some uncertainty, I think those who have the best information have a pretty good feeling about what the effect will be if this particular feature is not to be delayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I don't know if it did, but 30 years ago, it even took place. Talk about creating Eva, who was to be able to respond to members of the body and to the government how action would affect the environment. I thought it was far-fetched then and strange that we shouldn't have it today in our country. Hv. You can see that at the end of his talk, a senator gave one example regarding the 2.5% rise. I had just thought about it when I saw them: " Yes, but how does this affect the inflation? Is it not putting such elevations into practice to influence the inflation even if it makes it more difficult for those who perform something for the same coin to achieve an object? But it may be possible to find money elsewhere. Counts 'em out. A senator that if we had any such tools, some way to answer this, that as members of the Senate, we may make different and better decisions and not accidentally set up inflation faster than it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u113	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. First of all, it is not only the effect of this 2.5% automatic rise in in inflation but also a firm agreement to the market in general, to all traders, to say: "Hey, state fund is rising, there's no biting on the ass and holding back on the price raise. We'll push ourselves out too. Of course, the effects are secondary throughout the market. I think it would be a very good sign, especially if some meaning is behind trying to hold back the inflation and expansion of the booth, falling from this automatic rise. I'd like to agree with that, but there's not much evidence at the moment, if you'd like to do that with the government. I have to start studying Adam and Eva on grounds other than those of Eva, this dance system that was built up 30 years ago to make it easier for them to take into account the impact on the environment and natural resources, of course, we have several such systems, although they do not have as much interesting names as well as good people. There is an assessment of environmental impact, there is a special review of the environmental impact of the programmes, if I recall correctly, and other such. These are quite systematic solutions and often used in a different way, I think, but they were originally intended. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u114	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank you for this fine discussion that's been here and in fact for the weekend in connection with the budget talk. I have been at a council for some year, and I have found this discussion to be fascinating and helpful and interesting how the members of Parliament, the nature of the matter, with different categories of the council, approach the subject from different angles. It's informative, and at the same time useful, perhaps making you think about it a little more broad. We will discuss a bill that is often called the tape worm, a change in various laws because of the next year's budget. There was a debate earlier, under the President's Board of Meetings, about the missing of the Council of Congress - not just the fact that they're a brilliant lot of people, and I would have thought that some of those 38 members, apart from some financiers, would comment on such matters as those involving expenses and spells. Although it has been a long time since the election was made, it is not long since the election took place that I am concerned with various articles from people who have become members of Congress who lusted because the independent party always reduced taxes and curses. It is not necessarily possible to see in this matter, so that it is handled properly. I'd like to start with what may be the most important thing. Some of these changes are not unusual, just by no means. There are many positive steps to take in this matter, including the following: The criteria for improvement of social security, childhood benefits, etc. There are wise steps for the majority of people to make improvement. It's the most important thing, if we take this case and also the budget bill, and we agree with the government, that we're gonna get out of it. That's extremely important. But we must also keep in mind that interest costs have become the fifth factor when it comes to financial expenses and when we see the predictions until 2026, they will only grow. Although Iceland's debt ratio is in good shape compared to some other countries, it is still heavy here. It is relatively heavier here than in other places because of our high - interest environment, when we are in this beautiful environment. Thus, we need to be careful when considering the cost. The original projections have a government record, and we must deal with it in the near future because we're here talking about the income, taking over 200 billion loans. We must discuss whether that authority will be used and how it will affect the position of the State Fund. I suppose that's what. A legal committee considered this because we need to grow out of the problem. We look forward to this: Inflation is rampant. We're in a rapid growth process. We see less economic growth in years, less economic growth than real growth. This means that the problem cannot be grown out of the way of other traditional methods we know, and the government is trying to avoid. We need to be careful about this because we can't be seen in this bill or in any other prime network that the government has proposed, how to stimulate the economy and the economic environment so that we can take the step that we agree with the government on, i.e. growing out of the problem. These signs are not in the air because we do not have a constant currency. We do not have a presumption of currency, and besides that, we have these huge challenges that we face in more than a year when it comes to the workforce. I reiterate that I would like to encourage the labour market party to negotiate with reason and also establish a sense of responsibility for the labour market and, at the same time, for society all when it comes to pay raises, i.e. that the changes will be that really contribute - I've heard the highest. Secretarys of finance and other members of Congress talk about the most important thing - the improvedness of people's resources. I'll agree with that. When an inflation and growth environment is in the current way, the responsibility of the labour market is enormous. Once again, I want to direct my words to them to throw it away as we also understand the messages sent by the labor movement, e.g. the arrangements for housing, housing, young people, and less - important people, and the messages from the sectoral organisations and companies that work together with the demand for a strong job life, we need to improve the environment. We need to simplify the system, make it more transparent, make it more vivid, so that the job life together with the requirement to grow out of the problem, start running faster. It is natural, preferably by means of a constant currency. You know that discussion on our part during the restoration. But while living under a centenarian environment, we need all available means of pushing for the job and holding it around our working life so that it can run faster. There we need to encourage a simpler system. I would have liked to see some kind of draw up, some kind of vision, that there will be room to reduce taxes or insurance fees to an SME. I'd like to emphasize in this context, because we're talking about the bandor, that the way we can make more money is more and less likely to get paid. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said earlier, I would have liked to see the state use a measure of moderation, not to think it over into the prices, but at the same time I would like to prove that the State is not making the full use of the space. You should be right, and it's in a sense respectable when it comes to most of the fees, but I have questions about two costs at least which I'd like to talk to you about. The priority of spending needs to be cut off, and we'll discuss the financial policy afterwards, and then we'll have to figure out how we can improve our priorities when it comes to expenses - I'll review the effectiveness and responsible economy. A few things, opening words: Gistint fair fees. I want to celebrate the highest. The minister mentioned earlier, in cooperation with the local communities, needs to increase awareness when it comes to hosting the fee. It was to return, to my mind, at this time of the year, which is extended to 223 C.E. I'm the highest. Ministers and rural administrations, and then platoon ministers, to take these steps to reduce uncertainty when it comes to rural finances and how we're going to care for the budget. But I think it's right to extend it and to back it up as soon as I encourage this party to take it further and show it a little bit. I hope so. A body of elders is given an opportunity to see what people are thinking about in these matters. When it comes to the management fund of the elderly - these are not unusual changes here. But I'd like to underscore my clear opinion that it is urgent that we start trying to change this arrangement, this source of authority, to use some of the Agency funds in our business. I would have much rather liked to see more pressure in making better use of this funds for investments and the growing number of nurses. I've said many times over and over again that I feel that we have not been able to build more room, ease the pressure of Land Hospital, and expand our service throughout the country as far as it is concerned. I encourage Ministers to try to use the project fund and change the arrangement there, to increase investments in this regard. Then comes the green tax, the carbon bill. It's going up 2.5%. It can be justified by changes in prices. We've been up to times, we didn't just do it before the election, we think it's very important to use green motivation. The World Bank Fund shows, as soon as it encourages us to be careful planning, that we are still far below their standards when environmental charges arise that are designed to change behavior. I'd also like to warn you that this is going to be some kind of a mountain back way for state funds to make money. We have to use the tax system, change it so that, in the end, it will not be necessary to pay extra taxes in the homes and businesses of the country. I think that's very important. At the same time, I'd also like to say that I would have wanted to discuss this, we might have a discussion with 2. Environment, climate and environment minister. I don't really want to see an increase in carbon charge if I don't see it going where it's supposed to go, on climate issues, in the environment. This has to go there. Of course I have some questions. We see that the emissions of the Icelanders are 18 million. and by entering wetlands and damaged ecosystems, we would reduce emissions by 9 billion. a ton. The halting of vegetation would be 4 billion. a ton. How do we apply the carbon charges? How do we use the green taxes being taken? I think that will be one of the projects that a new climate, environment and energy minister has to enter and answer us here at the council, what actually is being done to green taxes to change behavior, but also to deal with the tremendous climate problems that we and the rest of the world are facing. Finally, I want to talk about what some call an extra language, which is a measure of what it is. Every time me and the senators let us talk about drinking, we must never talk about them. Nevertheless, this is one of our senators' assignments. The amount of alcohol paid is increased by the high prices that most of the remuneration aims for. I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. Secretary of finance told me about elections, and I would have hoped that he would have the courage to maintain his opinion over elections, that the charges of alcohol are on the outside. It is clear that when it comes to the prevention of alcohol and drug abuse, we have been shown to be extremely successful. We have measurable results, e.g. in high school, the way we've been doing since 1991, brought down youths in Iceland, which was with the highest level of what happened in OECD. Now we have one of the smallest consumptions at our last high school. This occurred because of their targeted prevention and related tasks. So I would have liked to see that men had kept only their hands, not just because the fee has come to an end, but also because at this point we look up at the part of our employment that affects the restaurant age, the place of entertainment, and the part that has to do with it. Travellers, misspelled by the epidemic. This is all a spell, whether it's the alcohol charge or some other forms of work that touch the job, the business managers' problem. This is a relatively heavy spell on this small enterprise, but it is often between two and ten people, most often eight to 15 people. Although the temporary reduction of the insurance bill is done well, it is all important when it comes to the business of small companies at difficult times. Overall, there are a lot of interesting things in the projections, and there are signs of air that are good and others that I think we need to talk about. I got it. I got it. A legal committee to handle this matter well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u115	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for his speech. I cut especially for what it was. At the beginning of the talk, a senator spoke about the intensive participation of the executives in this discussion here, in fact, no participation in the members of the board in this discussion here. There has not been one answer, and that has not been one case, except for the highest. Secretary of finance, of course forced to bring this matter into this council. But it seems that no other member of the board is interested in speaking up in 1st. about this bandorm. Now's the time. A senator has just completed his job as a professional U.S. Dean, who tells what his work experience is. A senator and I wondered what she reads in this lack of interest, and this lack of participation in the greater part. Is it because they are not interested in discussing this subject? Is it because they don't want to discuss important subjects like that. At the end of his talk, the charge, and the right to continue? Or e.g. The carbon charges we are discussing here, and how do we want to use them for the future? Is this something that simply doesn't belong to their table or is there something unpleasant about it, or are they just not interested in what the lesser part is saying? After this assembly began to be very strong, I felt that the more part of it is limited in what we think. They'll just have their way anyway. As a result, we can rest here for many hours, without them giving them any resistance, the main job, yes, in committees, there they will get their way, and it is of no importance to participate in the discussion with any smaller things that will not be heard at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u116	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for remembering to post ◯work in front of U.S. president of the U.S. I don't think I'd be fair, though, if I came up here and left everything that is taking place, if I didn't show it any understanding. However, when we look at it, this has happened, although I'm not going to say exactly this, often, but it's actually been in another setting. The Senate convened fairly soon after the election. There was a greater degree of activity in the council itself. We now have a government that takes the entire chapter from itself during the last term that involves the respect of the council. There are some things you can read from it. Then, when all these little pieces are put together, like just how you put them in committees, it's the first time for more than 30 years they're doing it with full weight and it's under the leadership of the left greens it's done. Yes, you can read all kinds of things out, but at the end of the day, it's a dimyistic place, and although it's certainly the way it is that we at the council stand for the job, it's seen during the debate today, we realize it, let's be honest with it, let's also hope that the more parts are coming here to play with the rest of the year. There are so many cases where it's not just about criticism, it's about profit, I think it's the first negative. I would love to have a discussion with, for example. Environment and Transport Committee members: How do you see, my friends, our use of carbon charges? How do you see, for example. The liquor we were talking about earlier? So I don't talk about it, and I'm coming to the second answer, how we talk about the development of a work programme that has, including, impact on government expenses. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, yeah, there's a lot of weird stuff, a lot of special things. [[The president calls.]] But this is, once again, a very symbolic place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u117	A respectable president. Yes, I put special emphasis on a question of duty, called ◯Engines, which was merely to highlight a congregational experience. A senator and just to find out what he is doing. But because of it. I'd like to make environmental policy and climate policy of a government as a subject of a second answer. Hv. A senator was describing what I feel is a certain tendency in the board of directors to have all kinds, but perhaps he does not have anything specific in mind, nor does he necessarily suggest that it be designed to achieve a certain purpose. I'd like to give you an example. When we were discussing a current financial program this spring, I noticed that the current topic site is at the highest level. A marine and agricultural minister reported that there was a trend toward a reduction in emissions from land use, which was a significantly higher objective than found in a new government discharge program. So it was that the government had published a really cool disposal plan and what it was going to do in climate. Then came a plan just a few months later, a financial plan that had even more ambitious goals. I thought it would be great and asked the highest. Minister how that difference stood. Would it be that the Ministry made a personal decision to be so much more ambitious than the government's climate program expected? Then came the answer from the highest. Minister: No, he did not know why there was a difference, and he intended to find out. I never got any answers about it. What I read out of this was that it was just snogging on something and it was put in this plan. [[The president calls.]] This is the tendency I'm referring to, just doing something and then seeing if it works. [[The president calls.]] It knows why. A senator, too, when it comes to e.g. Psychological Service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u118	A respectable president. Originally, these were the same as There was a comment about work here and a lack of members of the council. I also think that part of what's playing in there is uncertain. This is uncertain because they fail to realize how to carry out beautiful promises in a government covenant. In fact, the Ministry is not completely clear, it's being run between and fightin', some strain on where the rest is, and it's supposed to be within the board of directors. Sometimes it's better that the message from the lead is, and it seems to me that it is: Just slow down while we're trying to sort out the mess and try to stay friends. So they say. The promises in the Treaty are many very fine, but there is nothing about time - making, financing plans. One of the biggest offenses in the last terms that seem to be moving across is to develop into environmental and energy sectors. We're seeing the news and call from Landing on energy shortage and how to adjust things because the transport system is not sufficiently strong and thin, and there's not a perfectly clear view. That's because there's half-naked inside the government. We know that there is tension within the government when it comes to this, and as a result, the message is blurred. Will using the activation option of a frame plan be involved? Are you going to be involved in adding the transport system? Job life, both in the southwest and in the region, requires clear answers. There is no clear answer on the part of the government when it comes to this and the same, correctly, about the climate. We can't see, and I don't think it's gonna be very interesting to watch how it works. A minister of the climate will enforce the government covenant. [[The president calls.]] I also predict the highest. Marine and agricultural ministers will take on major environmental projects and it is only positive, but it may need to be done to ensure that something will be done in climate and environment and government support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u119	Mr. President. I thought it only appropriate to come here only after the Council's Age President, as a new senator here taking my first steps and me only in the discussion of the budget where I am now on the Senate budget. It has been called upon today that the members of the greater body come and express themselves, and I'm just going to explain my side of this matter. I've been at the council all day, and the last days, listening to the discussion. It is of utmost importance to us who are coming in again to try to figure out the scope of our task. For us and for me to take the first steps to the Senate budget, it is no less important, to hear the viewpoints presented here, and to take them into the committee so that a discussion can be made there for a second discussion of the budget. For my part, those days have been very interesting. It has been interesting and interesting to observe the discussion and to listen to the many and varied views presented here. So I'm just looking forward to the projects of the Committee, putting these together. It is important that this discussion be conducted and that we listen to the viewpoints presented here, and that's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. 1st. Witchest. "Sister Stefánsson's Vagn, very much for coming up here. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is saying. At the same time, I'm glad that now two of 38 members of the greater part, the management, have come up here. I want to thank you for that along the way. A senator is listening, including in my opinion of a very grammatical indication when it comes to solving this other huge project. The biggest task of the government and of our council is to restore the economics of the country, to make the state funds sustainable, to have the job so that we can run faster, so we can get out of the problem. There's a lot to do. There's quite a lot to start out as a new senator here at the council, being on a financial committee, and also the head of a business committee, which is an enormous and important group of cases, which I wish to do. A senator's well-being. But at the same time, I thank you for the fact that I'm being listened. At the same time, I would like to encourage, especially all new senators to participate in the discussion. You get up here and you sometimes don't have enough perspective. But all those who have been elected to be contemporaneous are well - meaning people who have ambitions to do better on behalf of the people. So I'm pretty optimistic as soon as I try to write down on my own, I'm going to give a brief talk later. There was one point earlier that I forgot, which is actually a indication. Fundamental committees and members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u121	Mr. President. Yes, thank you for the warm words to me. I'm sure it's chilling in a lot of new senators getting into this huge speaker's stand here. But it's also true that we all have a voice and should use it here. That's what we're elected to do, to make our voice and to make our viewpoint heard here, and that's what we will do. But I think it's also important, as I said before and as I was pointing out, that it is as important in this discussion of the swiftest government project at any given time, which is the budget, and where we are going to go to the next year, to listen and to accept, and to try to gain perspective on the big picture. To try to harmonize different viewpoints and approaches with the many difficult and complex tasks that we are facing in the days and years to come. All I want is a good conversation and cooperation on that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefánssonvegna for his speaking here, was the first member of the council, with the exception of a financial minister to do so in this discussion. It was a pleasure to hear that he is listening to this discussion and is going to take it to work on a financial committee. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator for his session on a budget board and because he is in the administrative sector: We now know that many of the debates on budgets are saying that there are quite a few changes to the bill. I wondered if the greater part is going to work these changes together, whether the greater part has received any notice of when the rest of us members of the Parliament will be able to know just about what to make of the change options for this bill. Whether we get any information about when it will be available or whether this will only happen to the committee in one month just before considering the issue beyond the 2nd. I'm just curious about what happens. A senator knows if there is a plan or if it will be as often as before, now I know why. A senator is new here - that we can get some documents from the Ministry just before handling the situation. There will be little time for us to review the suggestions. Is there a plan, huh? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u123	The president is interested in the fact that there is much to talk about a budget in this case, but this matter goes on to the Economic and Business Committee at the end of a discussion unless there is something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Probably this case will go to the Economic and Business Committee, as Mr. President arrived earlier. Hv. A senator asks about the law. For a senator who's taking his first step on a budget board, and here at Congress, I can explain that there's no doubt a plan, but what exactly it is, I can't say at this point. I can't keep it with me. But I can find out why. A senator if he wishes and tried to bring it to him. I will then direct a inquiry to the chairman of the budget board on how she can support the work ahead of her years and be happy to decide why. A senator from when I have a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u125	A respectable president. Because we're here to present indications, including... to consider certain points, perhaps three things I would like to communicate with both a financial committee and the other committees of the council. First, what has been mentioned by linking trucks and extending the appeals. I think it's fair to consider whether to extend. I'm not saying it should be done, but that men look at it. There have been indications, including From the labor movement and other agencies, making it appear that there are, in particular, less - experienced people who are having trouble investing in electric cars. Often electric cars are changing, another car in the home, and the radio trucks are a simple way of checking people for the change that is truly happening, and we are on our way. This is merely a suggestion to look at this better and to reason more clearly on the idea of dropping the coincidence now, but not extending over one year because evolution has been incredibly positive this year. Secondly, I have a tip to include... A top-of-the-art Board of Education and Budget Committee in connection with our State Radio, that important institution. I find it quite shocking to see how willing men are to go out of their way to talk that institution down. There are many things to be criticized for, but thanks for much that is being done there. Nevertheless, the state of the Kingdom News on a commercial market needs to be checked, and some card must be shown there. I'd like to encourage the government to do so, and I think it would be best if we tried to get some cross political reconciliation or decision in terms of that. It will be sooner than later to address the state radio status of the advertising market as I highlight the importance of our public radio. Third, and that may not be the least of the reasons I came up, is the word for it the highest. Minister on the staff assessment. It is important for older citizens to be employed as well as desperate - we know that the arrangement and the system are different - that these groups are not punished for such immensely, as they have been through, although positive steps have been taken. Rather, people are to be encouraged and encouraged to survive without leading to these extreme impairments. I hope it's the highest word. The secretary of finance when he spoke of a reexamination of the head-election insurance system was not just some beautiful election, because it's very important. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to resume the work that has been started. At the same time, I also understand the terror of the Peace Coalition. I liked to find that understanding too in the highest part of my life. A financial minister when it comes to operating properly, as the situation is, it is very difficult for a disabled and desperate person to get into the labour market. The job market does not really offer that. In fact, the public has not necessarily gone ahead with a good example. There are certain organizations that have done well, but we can do much better for the government, both government and rural. While the workforce is not more open to people with all kinds of needs, with all kinds of skills, they become suspicious when it comes to their ability to work. There's trust to be built, and I trust a minister fully to continue with that work and bring it into cooperation with both the Legion Coalition, the labor force, development aid, and others. But that's what I'd like to say. It is crucial to take these steps, to reduce loss because of people's job involvement wherever they stand in the community. At the same time, however, we need to understand that there are some changes to society, changes to work. So I want to send out an incentive to the companies, to the labour market, and to the government to live in a way that allows all kinds of people with all kinds of needs to find a flat to use their strength in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u126	A respectable president. I just want to start by saying something. A senator who points to the assessment of performance and how important it is that we get people to work, especially those with a mental disorder that is of disability. We too need to face such a group, and some change of attitude is needed in the community. A senator rightly pointed out. We cannot be putting people in situations where they have no time to be active, to participate in professional activities, because that is what everyone really wants, to be an active community member. This is really what I wanted to come up here to say, and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u127	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this speech and give you some encouragement. A senator just to take this attitude and this vision into the work that lies ahead, the important work that needs to be done, and I know that it will do it with zeal, but at the same time, it also describes my joy with certain music that I feel is positive, to me they are important for the council. So I hope that there will be something to do with these matters that we are discussing here and that we both love and value the people in the community, that they will be taken on. At the same time, I thank you for what I did. A senator for bringing up this enormously important issue, to increase the effectiveness of people so that they can find a way to their lives wherever they are in life. For this, I wanted to thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u128	I hereby recommend a bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. The subject of the bill is of many ways, and I intend to make an explanation for each of the major factors. First of all, it's a public Gospel. By means of laws obtained at the outset of November 1. changes were made to improve the tax environment of lawgivers who work for the greater good and fall to the third sector. The Act expects the tax company file to keep a particular public key file and to assume in the law that the relevant legislation to give the input will be recorded in the registry when administering a donation or donation. Since the IRS will keep a public gospel, in contrast with the public good news list, as the tax company file, it is suggested that a reference to corporate files be suspended from the law. It is suggested that, instead of references to the social registration law for the P.A., a cross-border work should be referred to the social legislation for registration and suitable legislation as appropriate in the tax public score. The Treaty on income tax laws states that citizens who have a work that is considered to be for the greater good and that is listed in the tax public goods file do not pay income taxes. It is suggested that the law, on the other hand, require the registration of the P.R.P.P. that the sites were submitted in annual accounts for the head of the tax and that there are no undercalculation or plans for taxes, tax fines, pay and transfers. However, the decision of the head of the state tax for rejection of registration or registration will be paid to the head tax Committee. At the same time, it would be proper to recommend a dose rejection of the government taxpayer's legislation on registration of the public good news file or a ruling of the public's common goods record. There is then reason to have the information obligations of those enrolled in the public good news book specifically specified in the income tax laws for monitoring interest. Next, we've got a tax cut from the stock market. The bill suggests an extension of three years of tax recovery. In the current law, it is expected that individuals will be able to take advantage of the embellishment of income tax stocks, as well as capital revenues, due to investments in 2016◯2021. Thus, unchanged the last taxation would be paid at the pressures of public pay in 2022 due to investments in 2021. The extension is in accordance with government policy to increase access to funding for both innovation companies and smaller enterprises and is thought that the resources could be of great importance to such companies. If you're a couple, you're being punished for your lack of money, you're going to be married. According to income tax laws, marriages should be put together and taken into account if a husband and wife have a higher income. When there is a false or misleading account of the capital gains in common marriages, only the behavior of the earner is described as a penalty. It is reasonable to assume that the criminal response and the criminal response to the income will turn toward those who make it, and they do not consider it to be part of a common statement. It is proposed that the law's penalty also take on income taxes from the income - income partners, but it is considered to be out of the company that makes more money. Fourth, it's the exchange of terms for Congress and rural funds for individuals and radio fees. The bill contains suggestions related to the exchange of terms between people's labours and rural funds and radio fees. The provision of exchanges to a few dues has led to complications when currency pay their posts to their first due date. This results in an introduction which carries interest while the previous debt falls into pay period. It is therefore suggested that, on the end of the entitlement, the candidate may request to pay the post of pressure and pay at once during the first pay days after stress, or the post office will be replaced on standard pay days according to current law. Fifth, it is the tax limit for selling electricity or hot water. Here the change in the budget is suggested by an increase. According to the laws on environmental and resource taxes, those selling electricity or hot water are for final users at less than 500,000 dollars. In a year taxable. It is suggested that the budget will increase to 2 million, but we evaluate the amount, among other things, the credit markets. On legalisation of environmental and resource taxes, the budget of the tax obligation was comparable to the level of the law on the value of extra taxes, i.e. 500,000 bucks. This amount has not changed according to the changes that have been made in the worth of the tax. However, taxation of electricity was lost from 2016 onward, so the proposal is only a currency market for hot water sale. The increase is simple to the environment of the individual with little activity and easier to monitor. It is also suggested that the wording of the law be adjusted in harmony with the wording of the law on merit taxation, i.e. that the income should be determined every twelve months, not the calendar year. Next, there is further change in the tax-employment law. Under the law, the tax price to be given without charge for the general pricing in the same type of trade. This amount of price should not be covered by tax prices taking into account the total cost, plus the pressures generally put on products or services of the same type. Under tax control, the registered parties have included: to pay the value of the product's value as well as the taxable service given free of charge and to propose the bill's support for its implementation. It is suggested that tax prices be adopted by the tax law when the tax taxpayer uses cash for individuals who are not employed at the agency's office. A tax collector will appear in the name of the owner and his account. The special principle allows an agent to reference tax prices in terms of sales pay according to the agreement to set specific conditions met. If those conditions are not met, it may be considered to do business under the exchange service, although its requirements are met. Otherwise, taxpayers must collect the sum of the total value of the sold in accordance with the Code on VAT. Next up for the release target. The changes associated with vehicle emissions are expected, but taxation and vehicle reciprocals take to a degree because of the documented carbon dioxide emissions when used. It is thus suggested that both the European driving cycle and the validated test method should be based only on the documented emissions according to the latter method. It is new and more powerful and is believed to be predominant in the evaluation of carbon dioxide emissions. I mean, renting an eco-friendly vehicle. It suggests a change in the terms of merit supplementation due to the provision of temporary XXXIX. The directive states that there is a reimbursement of the registered vehicle which has fallen into an attempt on the basis of a provisional provision for temporary XXIV to be fully avoided by the tax authorities. XXIV's provisional regulations earlier required special value taxation due to import and taxable sale of new electricity, hydrogen or linking vehicles, and for the import and first sale of used electricity, hydrogen, or motor vehicle vehicles to meet relevant criteria. The decision was changed in 2020, including the year 2020. have resuscitated on used electrical, hydrogen, or contact vehicles to meet specific criteria. It will be reasonable to believe that similar views in both of these cases are suggested to include temporary XXXIX management of vehicles used previously in an attempt to meet other criteria set out in the set. Remuneration criteria are next. They expect a change in so-called remuneration, i.e. when the public pay is not met, a body collector is allowed to demand that after up to 75% of the total pay paid to the employee at any time. It is suggested that the remuneration of public taxes be paid by the law and that the payer be obliged to send a bill of return to the tax that he or she was obliged to keep from paying, otherwise there is a risk that the pay will not be taken correctly. Next time we have permission to compromise property. The bill offers suggestions for changes in the rightness of property clearance. By the law of a change in the law on the matter of investigation and the charge of tax law laws, there was a clear understanding between the administrations, which are handled within the tax system and more serious cases, which are being treated by the U.S. attorney general's orders. In view of this, it is necessary to make changes in the sedentary laws of the law on the collection of public taxes and to pay in view of the fact that local rights will also take on the alleged penalty of a judicial decision which is in accordance with the laws on income taxes, merit taxation, public payment, and tax pay on capital gain. The investigation and the decision of fines due to tax charges is now in the hands of a government taxpayer when they do not fall under the order of the district attorney. Therefore, the head tax committee no longer has legal rights on larger cases. Rather, it is the commission in the role of an independent NTSB that accepts charges on the decision of the head of the tax to fines. The motion is in line with the comment made in the bill of the bill that became a law on the changing of the law on the subject of investigation and the suitation of tax fractures, which indicates that changes are not aimed at changing the government authority's authority's authority's authority on the treatment. The change is also suggested to allow immobilisation for the treatment of police as in the case of tax research cases that would be handled by the head of the state tax for the sanctuary because of the investigation. This can, for example, happen. refers to the need for immobilisation in the state taxpayer, but new information is provided after the case has been referred to the police. It also suggests small changes in wording. Finally, there is a suggestion that, in addition to the laws on the budget, there should be a statement that includes the provision of a sanctimonious law to collect and pay public taxes. Next time, pay for your partner's registration to the greater good. These are all proposed changes because of such a price. The P.R.P. laws on the social registration of citizens with cross-border activities were specifically set in order to respond to and fulfill the recommendations of FAFF, a global financial group of countries on actions against the money theft and funding of terrorism, and was part of the measures taken by the government by FAF comment. As shown by that law, these communities were considered at the highest risk of being abused and were registered in the public welfare registry. In accordance with the laws on the extra pay of the state's funds, the tax to registration of partners to the public goods through cross-border activities is 83,000 k. The price is considered somewhat high and is likely to be at risk of other forms of community and community support with cross-border activities, a position specifically to be taken and prevented. It is suggested that the registration fee be reduced to 25,000. which is equal to the registration fee of other partners or similar members. At the same time, companies are suggested for the common goods, which are under the law of society to the common goods, pay the same fee for registration, or $25,000. In terms of evaluation of the impact of the bill, it can be said that the effect of a proposal for a candidate to be allowed to request a panel to pay posts of Parliament and rural funds and radio fees at one due date instead of being divided over seven or three dues is considered very insignificant, however, a substantial profit. A link to the publishing of accounts and collections will be less for the government's financial resources, and government funds will also benefit by paying earlier to the state funds. There would also be someone with a much fewer requirements in the banking system. A new rule allowing a merit tax to be placed on a commission only when dealing with funds from individuals sold into the agency should remain unmistakably reduced prices of used goods, whether it is household equipment, toys, clothing and other items that may be sold by such an arrangement. Factors offering such services are increasing, and it is uncertain whether in all cases a tax tax price has been returned from the full market until there is no doubt about the current tax - price policy. It can be assumed that the direct influence of this change in financial income will be negligible. In terms of tax recovery from stock markets, it is estimated that the subsidies will lead to a 30 billion decrease in gross income. K. By the year 2022, due to the current year. If the amount of treatment is extended by about three years, this 30 million can be estimated. K. In a recent year, a three - year extension could be 90 million. K. reduction of this tax. On the contrary, you must look to the positive effect that is hoped to result in the long - term injudgment. Other changes proposed in the bill will not combined have a meaningful effect on the survival of the state funds, individuals, or legislators. In some ways, these are simply changes considered to be necessary and will, therefore, result in a clearer understanding of the tax laws. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u129	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There are two things I want to talk to the highest. Minister. On the one hand, it's a deduction from income tax stocks for the stock market. I don't know, I don't think it's a good idea, but I'm good at extending it. However, because of the fact that there has been a 2016 decision and now is running out, and in the report, nothing is more important than the fact that the resources can be of great importance to such an enterprise, I wonder if there must be no other diagnostics involved, and if the Ministry is not any more involved than that it might be good for us to continue with this. It is possible that there is some evidence of the effect that the strategy has had during the four years it has been in effect. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister could only consider what is behind the decision to extend this option. Then I wanted to discuss only the P.R.P. and the legal adjustment being proposed by the bill, also in the context of changing registration fees by members working for the greater good and having cross-border functions. V.E.G. Certainly, a minister pointed out that the FAFF organization pointed out that these were the financial laws that were the most vulnerable to the abuse of money and the financing of terrorism, and therefore all this rule around society was being put on the market. So I wanted to ask the highest. Minister: A union is now being improved to qualify for this registration, but what is being done to apply it after the fact that communities are not being abused for the greater good? What is the Ministry doing, and what is it about us that ensures that societies, especially those with cross-border activities, are not being abused? How is this being monitored?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u130	A respectable president. First with regard to tax rates from stock markets, the bill on this subject had some advantages, and it can be referred to a paper with the bill in its own time. In fact, this is one of many support measures for smaller communities, which are designed to create a positive, competitive, competitive environment for companies who are engaged in subsidiary activities in the country. Often these are government support programs, i.e. They are strengthened by public funds and are laid, and then they have to rely on funding from many parts of the economy. In many cases, efforts are being made to find support for those closest to the company. By extending these resources, we are taking a point after this period of time and saying that it was going well. We know the size, that's how rough it is, 30 million. K. Support in the law, and we believe these are positive signals that are valid for a review at this point and extension, simply for this purpose. The public record record is here being dealt with what could be a cause of abuse. This bill, of course, is an example of something we do to try to avoid abuse, but in other respects it must be referred to all the other procedures that we have been using to promote monitoring agencies and anyone who can have evidence of abuse by our peers, where the financial system can play a key role.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u131	A respectable president. I was perhaps asking, " Is there any analysis of this resource by reimbursement for stock markets and how it has divided between smaller wands, which are thought to have a good effect, according to the bill's report? ' Now I'm new to a Economic and Business Committee, and I'm getting into a new category, but I can't understand it any other way, so it's just a stock market value, in general, no matter what stock market the stock market is going to fall. That's why I wonder if there's any analysis in the way a ratio goes to the sceptre company and a smaller company relative to just a regular market company that doesn't need any particular appeals for people to buy in that stock. I asked about the surveillance process and may not have been quite excited to hear that the financial sector should be monitored, rather, for the actions of the government, to ensure that better surveillance of this community that we know FAFF has presented as particularly sensitive to the misuse of money and the financial resources of terrorism. Most of the reason we ended up on a gray FAF list not long ago was because we had a scan model surveillance. We just had no surveillance on the rule. We may have a rule around it, but there was no one to enforce it. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister to go over this for a minute. Besides the fact that these communities need to be recorded and some fees have been reduced to register them, what are we doing to make sure that this form of society is not being abused? What are we doing to keep away from the money and funding of terrorism?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u132	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. The money-cleaning system is not really here. And when another minister is asked what he is doing to fulfill his obligation to the law and to determine by his institutions that he or she is in charge of government surveillance, I have to say that it may not be directly planned here on this bill. However, here is a small example of what we can do to reduce our motivation to establish enterprises of one kind above another. I have to refer generally to the implementation of the action programme and eventually led to Iceland's being removed from the grey list because we had established a surveillance system, a regular work and a sophistication that was likely to address the potential dangers. A senator is making known that he is always there. I would like to note that these are discounts that are relevant only when investing in innovation companies and smaller growing companies, and that are a law-and-order work that we need to take care of in terms of government policy. Therefore, the way the European Union and other countries in the EEA have used these measures have been considered. It has been shown in the context of government rules that a kingdom wants to stimulate a wand like this in its communities. We have a very specific message from the stakeholders of these enterprises that this aspect of the environment is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u133	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of financial policy resolution for the period 2022206. Under the laws on public finance, financial policies provide a basis for public financial policies at a time. It involves external boundaries with regard to the survival and debt development of the public community as a whole, i.e. Part A of the state and community, institutions and their companies. Thus financialism draws up the big lines in public finance. Further implementation is carried out in the annual financial programme and in the budget of each year, with political emphasis and plans for individual expenses and income markets. During the last term, the government was running a significant policy on welfare systems, a major ininvestment ininvestment, a review of tax systems as well as ambitious environmental goals, and an increase in contributions to most sectoral fields in terms of growth. The results of long - term economic growth were determined to reduce debt, strengthen public service, provide a social support network, and reduce taxes. During the spring months of 2020, however, the first major economic presidents were affected by a huge task in the area of disease control and economic conditions. The budget policy for 20222/226 reflects these difficult circumstances and the government's reaction to the full application of the government's financial resources. The project ahead is to rebuild the upbuilding budget and defend the high level of benefits achieved by the crown virus epidemic. It is the goal of the State Policy to support the economy and create an antiquation for valuables in the wake of a crisis. The course's guide is to stop the increase in debt as much as the proportion of land production lasts in 2026. In order to achieve this objective, a careful but progressive improvement in public finances is achieved, with a year - long decline in public service and investment as a guard. Much lower debt ratio than previously predicted, including Because of a powerful economic response to the epidemic, there is room to delay the aim of stopping the increase in debt by one year from the planned financial programme last spring. However, the economic stability of short-term and long-term, sustainable public funds is based on the aim-to-be seen in this synonym. The aim of these policies is three-way. First, to protect public financial resistance and sustainableity so that governments are always in a position to soften the impact of unexpected economic conflicts on society. Second, building space to face predictable pressures on public finance because of demographic change, especially the nation's aging that will increase over the years and decades. Third, more recently, we look forward to supporting the economy, thus protecting the current economic benefits. Our policy will depend on our present situation and will look at economic issues. After a large donation by the pandemic, the economy has gained a solid foundation in the current year. Unemployment is more than halved, and it is now similar to that of the epidemic. Economic outlooks are bright, though the economy is growing from a lower foundation than it would have been if it had not been a pandemic. Economic growth is expected to be 5.3% in 2022 and a total of 16% of interest to 2026, according to Iceland's National Economic Organization, which is fundamental to its policy. It is likely that travel services will continue to improve and that they will be strengthened by personal consumption and investment. The economic situation of households is strong and unemployment continues to decline. In contrast, inflation has been more persistent than previously planned, and inflation rates have improved, although it still looks like inflation is falling in the next year. It is clear that in the years to come, interaction between public financial, financial, and employment markets will be tested almost as well. Economicism, as stated earlier, is a much stronger public debt level at the beginning of the policy period than it looked in the early stages of the epidemic. These improved debt prospects are primarily due to more intensive economic activity than previously predicted, including some of them. Because of the government's rights and extensive response to the economic crisis. The next two years will be the expectation of a better position. All of this is a market situation. The debt should be considerably better than earlier predictions had been made. The market situation in the state is looking forward to the market value of the current sale of the state after the bank registration in the market, as well as the market value shown today by the Stock Hall. Taking into account all of this, an up-to-date debt is expected to be about 40% of national production this year, in view of the legal requirement for public financial matters. In contrast, when making financial contributions last spring, it appeared that the debt rate would be nearly 44% of domestic product. Here we are discussing the debt of the government. To achieve this aim of halting the increase in debt as a proportion of land production becomes officially improved year by year. Estimated government tail, i.e. Section A1 of the State Fund and Part A are down by 200 billion dollars. next year to a maximum of 50 billion dollars. in 2026. Thus, from less than 6% of land production in 2022 to about 1% of land production at the end of the period, the Hall declines. These goals for survival are based on current economic prospects as reflected in the national economy, but economic growth in the coming years results in considerable improvement, although it is not enough to stop the growth of debt. The total income of the government is estimated to be 38.5% of gross domestic product, typically this year and the next. It is expected that income will grow as a proportion of GDP by less than 2 percentage points and will be about 40.5% of GDP by the end of the period. The government budget is estimated to be about 48.5% of GDP this year but reduces by 44.5% of gross domestic product on the next concomitantly with high economic growth, shift to labour market, and thus reduces unemployment expenses. In addition, the majority of the seasonal crown virus expansively eliminate transient counter measures. At the end of the period, expenses are expected to be 41.5% of gross domestic product compatible with the average of 2018 and 2019 years. Thus, expenses fall as a proportion of GDP from the current position. This includes restraining the growth of spending so that it does not increase beyond the growth of land production. Thus, the actual growth of expenses will be moderate during the period or less than 1% a year at a government fund. This may be the point of which we have considered at the council in recent years and not unforeseeable. During the last term, we had to revise our financial policy twice and publish it. This is a response to this experience, taking into account the indications received from the council and from financial councils and beyonds, and continuing to develop this uncertainty in the introduction of the case at this time. Thus walking on the uncertainty gap is permitted to be less economical, but it is now estimated to be the most likely but only to the extent resulting from less economic outlooks. Only fluctuations of the 2008 financial crisis and the 2008 economic crisis caused by the Korean epidemic would fall outside the uncertainty gap as defined by the policy. This could be said to say that it would require a blow comparable to that of the two major traumas so that we would be beyond the uncertainty gap. The range of uncertainty, then, is a recession in the economy, which is somewhat smaller than the two major cases. With this development of the uncertainty gap, as well as the separation of significant economic growth above current trends to improve recovery, the more flexibility in the economic policy is built on economic rhythms. This tells us that if there is significant economic growth above present prospects, it will be used to improve its recovery. Some economic growth can create a degree of freedom, not only in terms of improvement but also in terms of financial planning or financial legislation. A respectable president. In many ways, financial policies are different from policy makers of each year's budget. In view of the time of five years, various long - term circumcisions have become more important. The nation's age and changes in international growth are among factors to be seen. Both result in slower economic growth and greater payoff pressure for the next year and even decades, if not the case. The aim and priorities of public finances with emphasis on improving the growth of the economy is of prime importance to meet these challenges. As a result of increasing production capacity, the economic system is essential for the permanent payoff of the past few years. Similarly, strong growth in production reduces the need for special revenue and maintenance measures to stop debt accumulation. As we have already said, we are going to grow out of the crown crisis rather than cut down and raise taxes. In this context, it is proper to remember that economic stability, resulting from a government fund working against the economy, ultimately contributes to more economic growth. Similarly, the emphasis on public investments in material and social infrastructure leads to an increased ability of the economy to grow. This emphasis is clearly seen in the government plans, but the government investment level is high in historical light up to 2023 along with the increase in corporate research and development and investments. Thus we will build up new opportunities, new jobs, and new economic support in the fields of innovation and imagination. In the years to come, improvements in the tax system will continue. A global review of the taxation of vehicles and fuel will be made in an effort to create sustainable revenues for the construction and maintenance of transport. The participation in international cooperation will continue to be emphasised, particularly on the current battle against international tax evaluations and the cooperation with the taxation of the digital economy. The tax system will continue to play a role in environmental and climate issues where positive incentives will be used to cover green solutions, as well as greenhouse gas expenditure. The opportunity for further discussions about these aspects of a discussion about financial agenda in the new year of April 1. A respectable president. The forwarding of financial policy is an important factor in the construction of public funds. The plan is to deal with the budget and budgets of the coming years by extending policy horizons at the beginning of the term. Thus, the General will have the opportunity to discuss the five-year strategy based on the baseline laws on sustainability, security, stability, stability, stability and transparency. With the approval of the policy, the General Assembly will provide a road stone for public financial matters for the remainder of the terms of the season. In the underlying terms of financialism, the emphasis is on defending the success of a more intensive public service over the years. In addition, recent experience has shown the importance of living in the best interests of the money. It is therefore wise to reduce the angle of the state's funds and, in the years to come, stop it with an increase in the proportion of land production. At the same time, economic forecasts will be able to maintain a stronger public service, increase government investments, and return to the state's financial balance. These are the main goals of financial policy for the next five years. I pay particular attention to the report, which is a fairly deep analysis of the economic situation and the basis for the policy development, a much - important material coverage. Similarly, we have in an appendix provided an explanation that explains the changes in my presentation. I suggest that the case be referred to the legal committee and to another. discussion after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u134	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for this passage. I wanted to direct that question to the highest. Minister of what will take over in 2026. Tells you the highest. Is it wise for the secretary of finance to take over the debt and detriment with full weight? I would refer to this in context to the fact that, considering the current pre-set and status of debt, as reflected in the 2026 policy, this is about 46◯47% of land production, which then needs to be immediately reduced by 5% in that year, in order to resist the rules. If I count correctly, it's about 70 billion bucks. who immediately have to go to debt - 70 billion dollars. in debt pay if the rules fall into full weight and on top of the other rules could possibly come, as is currently planned, to make further arrangements. You're on top of it. Minister of this too steep? Tells you the highest. Ministers possibly more reasonable that the rules would be introduced in steps following this great crisis now and in view of the fact that the basis for this policy was actually smiling for Covid?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u135	A respectable president. This is an important point that we have written in the law that financial advice should be monitored. We have a special set of laws that give the Council financial advice on whether we are likely to be sailing in order to make the rules back on this timeline. I think it will attack when it comes to a large part of the economic growth. It should not be a great deal to see our ratio gradually return to 30%. If we have recovered the equation, the economy every year should gradually push us toward that direction. On the other hand, the correct level of debt may be considered. Thirty percent is a relatively cruel rule. But I also think we have experience in being, like, a very open and relatively humble economy, exposed to the big shocks. If we look at global developments, which I believe are in part. In the report, we find that deeper depressions are increasing, and they seem to become deeper as the years have passed. As we have grown, we need to be willing to take hold of globalization in a deeper and faster state of decline than we may have been able to get used to in the past 100 years. This means that we will need the good years to collect into the barns, where there may be a degree of debt. I think, for example. that we are to have a more rigid debt rule for the state's budget than the euro and that this downturn has shown itself to be extremely valuable to us. But we did right if we used the next few years to develop this discussion, ask ourselves, " How do I go from one year to the next, and listen for financial tips? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u136	President. Thank you very much. Minister for a clear answer, and I'm glad this may be considered a point of debt. I think it is very important that we consider what is a normal debt because various factors have changed in the world. I think it is very important that we be discussed in the years to come how we get out of this situation. I wanted to follow through and go to the top. Minister, in relation to the ability of the economy to react, a question about the importance of living in the interests of the situation, whether or not he can see the other side of the case, i.e. that there are other ways to live your life than paying off debts. It's, for example. can be done by supporting other employment practices, by preventing us from having as unique economic systems as we have today, and by having been with us, as with the tourism now, as with the banking system in our time, as if by the seabed several decades ago, to get these big and major traumas. It might be important during the coming season that we would discuss only debts from a broader point of view, i.e. investing in infrastructure and new jobs so that we are not only taking all the profits that come for the next four to five years and scraping them into financial debt but also in the structure of a more diverse economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u137	A respectable president. What an important subject! I agree absolutely that we must not neglect investing in the interiors, and we have not had the proper ability to evaluate the level of government investments for far too long. We are gradually building up the capacity to analyze it better, and we have not been too successful to get all the funds out of the past few years, e.g. We are on the current year. We have provided enormous financial resources for investments, but it has not been successful in my opinion to get them to work. But that's basic to investing in the economy. There is another factor that matters here, too, because we are very often discussing our large systems, whether the health system or the social security system. The fact is, we've grown so much in recent years, and we've been having political emphasis on doing better with those who need to rely on these systems, that the space for investment has been drawn together. We need to make this clear only to ourselves how we will set priorities between these important factors. How will we use the transfer systems to raise up with those who need support and how far can we go before we have gone so far as to make an investment in the affairs of the State? Which is more important in the long run? What important questions these are! There is also one thing that matters, when we're looking at the debt ratios, and there's working systematically on it, and there's gonna be one of my priorities in this terms-of-the-art period, making sure that there's no barriers for a state fund to finance these debts. We have too long a history of paying special stress in the Icelandic federal debt. When comparing ourselves with other peoples in debt, we also need to look at the interest load that results from our debt and face the fact that our debts are and have generally been more expensive than comparable rates of debt cost other wealth. [[The president calls.]] There are technical, market, and other explanations that we need to discuss and deal with where possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u138	A respectable president. I find this amazingly interesting and interesting conversation taking place here, e.g. Last time we spoke. It is absolutely true that our growing burden of Iceland is proportionately greater than any other country, it is heavier. Of course, the big elephant in the porcelain shop is the currency. That's one of the biggest changes in this. But we're not going to change that now, unfortunately. But I'd like to say that it's really important to watch how we're going to make a money fund, how we're going to pay off debt, and whether we're going to pay off debt. I think that history shows that both in the collapse and then in the pre-traumatic period, it was useful that things had been done. The debt had been paid off. There's been a political conflict here about whether we should pay off debt or not, but I think it was relevant to the reaction we could show in these two major economic losses that have happened to our nation. That's why I'd like to ask about financial policy, and it's a good thing that the council can take the time to discuss it because it's such a wide line. I would like to ask in the light of the government covenant, would you like to know the answer to that question at the highest level? Financial Minister: Does he see that the cost of the State will be increased on the basis of the Mosaic Law covenant and the promises there? Second, I would like to ask, based on the economic climate and then the growth process in which we are doing so will help us to see that economic growth becomes less than growth: How and what will it do, if he could give an example, that we can go out of the situation when the situation is done? Third, questions about government sales are raised. I strongly support the fact that we continue to sell to make Iceland Bank, but I would like to get an explanation from the Topv. Minister. How does he see the value? Will this be to reduce debt or to make further investments on government premises? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u139	A respectable president. First of Iceland Bank sales. The store will simply create space for the financial resources to finance itself, thereby subsiding investments and reducing interest costs, which further increase the scope. So, yes, we're going to stay in the nest, and we're not going to have the original equation all this time. It won't be until the end of the equation. But it is obvious that the bank's sale will increase space. Briefly regarding growth, there have been some reasons why the state's budget has not been sufficiently successful in my opinion. One of them has spent some of the investments of foreign workers in Icelandic markets. And then I have to say just as it is that although I feel that the Icelandic state is not more reasonable when compared with other nations, as an investment when we look at a person's product of land, look to the balance, watch the economics, watch the education level of the nation, watch out for resource use, I don't talk about how we have financed our pension system, the long-term commitment of state funds. All of this, making sense to the resources, green energy, etc, should give us reason to believe that Iceland's government fund is a very serious investment option in foreign, international investors. There's been a considerable change in the percentage of foreign investors in Icelandic, state bonds, and I think that's an indication that we have some work to do there. I don't see any particular evidence that the budget needs to be increased significantly in relation to the government covenant. However, there must be some way that this real - life growth, which I discussed earlier, must be in order to meet such goals. But we must also look forward to making better use of the money, and it must be a priority to ensure good use, especially after as much tax expansion as it has been in the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u140	A respectable president. Yeah, I can totally say the most cheeky thing. Minister. Why aren't you investing more? Why are we not getting more than that? A better loan for state funds? Our answer in Correction is that one of the reasons, I'm not saying it's the only one, is even. the currency and how important it is to have a trustworthy, stable currency. Our currency record is rather much more Russian than a fine line, and it is not necessarily attractive, either for those who are willing to lend us or for those who are planning to invest. I'm concerned about Iceland's investment options. Besides, the real experience may be, maybe, the position of the export roads now, rather strong. Considering the bank projections, it's something that's getting stronger. I am also concerned about how we will continue to grow out of the problem if the exports may be in a weaker position than the previous year in order to live up to the interest we so desperately need. I'd like to ask you, " Am I following the top? ' Minister right there's gonna be some kind of a down-and-out bed? But first and last, we need to ask how we're going to use the crowns, the investment, better than to find out what we're investing in. If so, will a minister present himself with a more efficient operating tool, with success measures, to know what we are really investing in, whether in the welfare, infrastructure, education, or anything else?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u141	A respectable president. Yeah, I can totally agree with that. A senator when it comes to investing in the Icelandic crown is not the same as investing in the euro or in any of these large coins. I believe, however, that when we compare the Icelandic economy and its strength to comparable countries, whether in OECD or whether we look at coin areas or other, the prospects in Iceland are pretty good. We have a biological status, although we may be older, we are younger than most of those nations. I also mentioned the pension fund here, I mentioned the economic ratings, and I just mention the technicality, we're now putting a new data line abroad, we've got optics in Iceland, which is more than anything that's known in other places and this green image. There's just so much that tells you that we have a strong situation, and here we are discussing financial policy that shows that we've taken everything about the public financial reimbursement and we're working on it in a new frame of law. These are all sales points that should be regarded as considered for international investors, which are not often considering such short - term swings at the level of currency, but of looking for a longer time. This is just one of the reasons why foreign investors in the Icelandic Clan have the lowest conventions at this time. It is a matter of thought, especially if you look at the interest rates and interest rates at the Iceland State Fund and other countries. How can we recommend and monitor, and what controls can we have to look at the financial expenses? We have some improved projects and, of course, a number of aspects of the public ministry, such as what is being financed through Iceland. But I think it just has to be admitted that we can do so much better by analysing the data of the state. And if we can just use the site of the income story, as one of the little examples of information that we can provide better based on the data we already have. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of prosperity, it is the presentation of data that we already have. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We should do much more to analyze evidence and ask how we will achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u142	President. I want to keep talking about poverty. In fact, poverty is a missing word, both in this financial policy and in the government policy sheet, and only happens once on 350 pages of the budget. It is my hope that the rulers here will listen to these words and may correct them, for poverty is something we should not have to experience in Iceland. I enjoyed the privilege of serving as an assistant in the management of the Red Cross in Iceland, but at that time the important organization decided to set up and run a poor fund. My seat there gave me some insight into the lives of poor people in Iceland, the insight most of us have ever received. The vast majority of those assigned from the Red Cross was people who also received financial support from their rural communities, and some were individuals who for various reasons fell between systems and are temporarily totally empty. Examples are those who wait for the right to pay unemployment and who have fully used their right to rehabilitate a pension. Another example is that of people who have come to the country and who work as contractors, hurt their jobs, and have no rights in this country. There are also those who have recently arrived with the status of refugees here and who are still at their feet in a new community. People in such a situation often face great costs, and like others, they need to provide housing and get on their feet. These groups are often very vulnerable and in a more delicate position, with a small network behind them. The financial support of rural society differs, and many of those who accept moving from rural communities do not all have the right to help. With increasing rates in a public rented market, it is extremely difficult for people to support themselves, not to talk about those who have to pay dues, to buy clothes on children, and to do so. It's easy for the highest. Ministers to talk about increased means of making money for people at the same time, as he constantly makes more and more parts of the system payable. This increased obligation, however, makes it necessary for more and more people to live in a state of inadequacy to deny themselves important and often vital service. This was shown within the category of candidates to the very poor treasure of the Red Cross. Many of them deny what most of us consider to be luxury, such as ladies and wives, medical research, medicine, and bus trips. During the years that the Red Cross operated on the rich fund, it was found that a large number of people in this country have an extremely poor standing here. It is important that there are resources to cope with this situation in those who live in very poor health, whether temporary or prolonged poverty. That people need to rely on strength and support, such as the one that the Red Cross provided is not a means of long - term recovery. There the Kingdom must take the lead. Nobody's supposed to have to live in our rich country with very little money. This group certainly exists, and action is needed right now. Since we have several members of the board, why? Councilmen and the highest. Minister, I would like to ask: What is the government going to do to eliminate very little money in Iceland during this financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u143	A respectable president. We'd talk here one of the biggest cases of years coming, I'd say, i.e. Economic policy for the 20222/026. I have previously given talks on the importance of law on public finance - we tend to talk about the new government laws, they may not be so new anymore, but recently they are - and how much the change took place in these legislation. To see now how the Council, which is the financial donor, deals with the financial and economic issues of the state throughout the year. We just finished this discussion about the budget and the bills, and now we're dealing with the financial policy, which is actually going to happen once in terms. Still, I have had the opportunity to participate in some financial discussions, since it has been changed in the last stages. Then there is the financial program that we deal with at the beginning of the next year. I'd like to reiterate it for those who do not know how important this improvement is on the whole of the democratic discussion of both the budget and the economics of the state, but also how much more professional and better all these practices are. I've mentioned earlier that I came in as a deputy just prior to Christmas, 2004 or 2005, where some 500 thousand phone calls were being dealt with here and a million here for some charity work in many parts of the country. The box around the government's finances is in such a much better way now than they are, fortunately,. When I read through these financial policies, I feel like talking even more about the future and looking further into the future. I'd like to think about it here, because I know that I'm creating a future commission for the council, that although it's a big improvement that we have a 2026 now, 2026 is almost tomorrow, in the large context of the parts. So here in this course, it is certainly a challenge to face as a community; that is, of course, the nation's aging, self - destructiveness, and the social changes that are taking place. I wanted to mention that I think there's a reason to take them up even further here at the Hall about how we're going to deal with these enormous challenges. I would also like to introduce to you the importance of having our present goals of prosperity. I was so lucky to be involved in work during the last terms on prosperity and quality of life, and we know that most of us in Iceland, along with other countries, have taken up the task of seeing prosperity. We see only that during the last financial policy, there were over 300 times in policy prosperity, a word that had hardly been seen in financial policy before. That may be an example of this changed procedure. The economist has begun to publish these words of prosperity, and I think that we senators, and I will apply myself to that, a respectable president, will follow these goals. We'll keep an eye on these matters. They even contain them. Step into it like a dog. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson spoke here before me, i.e. poverty. We need to have these standards, and I would like to see them as much depravity as possible to deal with where the need is most, where there is a real need. Instead of going into a system change, we'll see where the problems are, and we can deal with problems and help those in need of help. I think these excellent aims of prosperity are the means to do that. There's one thing I'd like to criticize in this financial policy, that's our goal or the criteria that are placed on one of our largest sectors, i.e. tourists. The number of tourists from more than 700,000 in 2021 is nearly 2 million 2024. I think we need to change the speech in this regard. We now have a travel policy that does not really mention a single word on the number of tourists, but it goes all into tourism policy on what we get from the sector. It contains, for example, target, about 700 billion bucks. The cost of tourists in 2030 is 90% or more for tourism and the level of recommendation is high, as well as for effective management. I just wanted to point this out in this context. I realize that these are the numbers that have been installed into Excel documents to react and with certain predictions, but I think we need to consider changing it to one of these changed priorities that have become with us in our travel service and will become even more, I think, in the coming years. But otherwise, I just thank you for the fine policy available here, and I look forward to discussing it on a financial committee, and I don't talk about it when we're getting financial evaluations that will go over this and give us good insight. It is also one of the good changes that have been made by government law, that we have independent specialists outside the council who give us their credit for financial policy. All of this is done to increase our professional activities and democratic discussions about this huge business of the State, our financial policy, and our long-term plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u144	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for a good talk and wanted to agree with some things. A senator mentioned. First of all, I think it's very important that we have the best standards for what's going well, what's going on, where we're going to improve, etc. I discussed earlier today the importance of being a member of Congress, as well as the government, having such tools and models to work after so that we would have a better perspective on how certain measures affect certain groups of society. Then I also wanted to mention, and I hope that this is something a financial committee examines in his dealings with the case, a number of tourists who were asleep. A senator talked about it. It struck me a little bit when I started reading the budget bill that it seemed like a major cut on the amount of money that goes to introduce Iceland internationally from year to year. Not many tourists came here this year, so I don't know how this year's money was used. But at least I'd like to see more spend introducing Iceland to foreign ground because there's a new group of tourists that want to see this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-07-6.u145	President. Thank you. A senator before the answer and can agree with the importance of identifying the available data. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister just came in, in a speech earlier, the importance of using that information. Happily, this has been a huge step in recent years, and I think it can be commended. Minister for that. We can look at the history of income, we can also look at the productions of the budget now and under the budget where there is an entirely different and much clearer picture for the common people, and for us senators of what is going on here. I also mentioned before the financial program and that we have a much better way of managing the government's finances, with members of Congress, when it comes to that discussion. For the tourists, I repeat what I said earlier, I don't think the masses are everything. We are to look at what will come out of this article, which will be considered in the following article. I think we've been doing a great thing about a presentation in Iceland as a tourist place, and I'm overexcitedly optimistic about the future of Icelandic tourism. I think when we get up out of the code right now, we'll have more opportunities than ever. But I also hope that we have the courage to make good use of those opportunities, and my propaganda is that I don't think it's about the growth of tourists or the number of heads, but mostly what travel service gives Iceland. It's nice to see how we've been able to market this country both for tourists but also for future residents, to invest and just to the universe, and what Iceland represents as a sustainable green island where there is a green innovation. All of this works together. In this respect, we also have our culture and history, our movie sector, and all that has been involved in the marketing of Iceland as a tourist attraction.
