ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of Pirata's House of Congress about Olga Margrét Cilia, 1st Lipper on Pirata, Smoke. So, have proclaimed pasturage, and will therefore be replaced as a substitute for Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir. So yesterday, on Monday, March 1, at the General Assembly, she was serving as an assistant for 2nd on Porta's list of districts, Katla Þórhildardóttir Þrjörjörðurdótir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Minister, Transport, Industrial and Organic Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u3	A respectable president. At least 1,200 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental or psychological problems. The most common waiting list is at the Development and Behavioral Center where 600 children await diagnosis. We leave children with mental disorders to wait, not for months, but even for years. FEW is to help children who have to live with people who suffer from alcohol and drug problems or other mental illnesses. There the pot is badly broken, and the government puts its head in the sand to avoid seeing the problem and thus does not solve it as it should. Children should never go to a waiting list for treatment of mental illness or other illnesses, never. Pressure on children and their families is often so serious that the damage will be irreparable, both spiritually, physically, and financially. By not eliminating the lists of young children and teenagers, the Kingdom produces disability on the line of opportunity, now and into the future. It has been found that mental and physical abuse of children has increased, making good and urgent health care needed for children of vital importance, such as ADHD, anxiety, extreme suicide, behavior and communication problems, and children's learning problems. So it is absurd not to respond to the list problem. Waiting for speech training by pathologists to be done is 17◯36 months. The country's area is the longest. The number of children on the waiting list for speech training is from 300 to 1900 in the parlors in the capital area. Is there no future for this government, the highest. Healthcare minister, for children in waiting lists according to health care? Or what's the policy? That when a seven - year - old boy grows ten years of age, he gets the necessary service? That's about 180 million for speech pathologists to do that service, but we have 180 million. K. For food for mines and we have 500 million for the private media, where most of the things go to the very rich owners. [[The president calls.]] Isn't there money to make sure that no child has to wait on a waiting list once and for all?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up health care with children, and especially about mental health matters, but we have discussed this series repeatedly. I want to make sure of what. The senator that the person standing here is especially burning for this group of languages, i.e. where children's interests and mental health issues are put together, we have doubled the number of psychologists in the clinic during this term. We've initiated a mental and mental program in high school, which is the cooperation of education authorities, health authorities, and social authorities because they have a long history of making their first appearance. We also need to think about prevention, and we need to think that mental health is a major work that is not just about mental health. We have been able to improve the quality of our service as a whole. It is also very important not to be overly demanding, and I completely agree with what is being said here on that matter, especially when waiting for services such as the Development and Behavioral Institute or State Analysis and Advisor. Unfortunately, there have been times when this waiting has been in more than one place, so children have both been waiting for the services of the BUGL, a diagnostic and counseling station, and a Development and behavioral station, and so the waiting list is not telling the whole story as it is. But more often than not, fortunately, if children are on the waiting list for the services of Pediatrics, they enjoy the ministry during the wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers give the answers, but they're not clear enough. We know that now in Covid, things are getting worse. We must realize that for every cent placed in the list of waitings, 99 k will certainly return. Back. How can it be acceptable to say to a seven - year - old child: Hey, you get a service when you're ten? What will happen to this child in the school system? What is the future of this child? It is a responsibility to say repeatedly that something is being done, but at the same time the list of waitings will be extended. Then there are always talking about the lack of 180 million to cover the services of speech pathologists. We've set up billions of dollars for those who have paid off money because of the Covid epidemic. But do we stop them? 180 million for children. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u6	A respectable president. Because of what? In this regard, during my period in the Ministry of Health, there has been an increase in the number of individuals involved in mental - health services that are now worth about a billion each year. In addition, we have added to our mental - health services 540 million last year and 540 million this year because of Covid and related reactions. Now my cooperation is at the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs to identify the waiting lists as well. A senator talks about, and offers suggestions to reduce waiting for service. That's a complete analysis for the whole country because it's not gonna be enough to see one specific place. It's just that we're gonna have to see it all. It stands before us to get conclusions from that analysis, this bottle-neck analysis, where the barriers in the system are, and I assure you. Senator for action to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u7	A respectable president. On this occasion, I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Tourist, industrial, and innovation minister on the status of tourism now that more than a year has passed since the first shooting of the Korean virus in this country. Since the introduction of the first treatment of disease prevention, social services have been observed. At the beginning, economic and system-based organisations were authorized to operate in a more open fashion than the generalir of Disease Controls (ADCs). For foreign workers who come to the country on specific projects, labor epidemics have been a permanent solution. Movie projects have enjoyed an exception, and sports teams to come to the country have been given room to act with the exception of various relevant rules. Everything's been going well, just fine. I'd like to mention one group of operators who has been just a short straw in all of this. In fact, there is little to say but that those who do so - called rare travellers have been pulled over by governments, and no one seems to be the exception, the office of a psychiatrist, the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Health, or the rest of those who have come to the challenge to demonstrate and shape these parties, in agreement with a disease surgeon's office, will be able to manage the services of small isolated groups that leave much behind their economics and guarantee jobs in their own neighborhoods. In this context, I would like to mention two firms who have chosen their activities in a very limited way provided they receive a government release, but it seems that it would be a complete paradox to reject their advances. These are two companies up north, one on the other and one on the other, the Bergers, the Arctic Heli Scaning, who both do the winter service for very distinct groups. From the best possible relationships, these communities and prospective others may have been drawn onto their asses. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Minister for travel first, how does a minister feel he has succeeded in implementing an arrangement that is reasonable and justified? And second, do the Minister agree between decisions, with the exception of athletes and movie groups on the other hand, and with services in so - called rare travel services?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I know those matters as well as they do. A senator here refers to and has been dealing with the representatives of these enterprises, with SAF, and with other members. Because of what? A senator says that the party drew the short straw and no one stood by them, I can't remember the exact word "woe." A senator is now so that my ministry will not make any decisions in this regard. I've presented this information. I've been asking questions. I've called for explanations when it comes to explaining whether there's a match between groups, how to look after an average value, and whether these enterprises can be met without threatening results when it comes to the virus or risk assessment, i.e. how much risk it is to receive these groups. I have not felt anything else from these companies but that they are really ready to meet all the potential requirements we make to ensure that no transmission across a wide range of areas is possible. I believe that there is a clear correlation between which groups have been allowed to come and act and create domestic value through these excluded sources, such as. a workaholic environment, and the way we look at the so-called custodian movement, i.e. If we welcome people in a cage that they never really get out of and that is as good as using some kind of aseptic technique on their journey. The decision is made by the surgeon general in this regard, and of course, I hope we can find out some general rules that people can adapt to so that there's a way they can look for a reason in what they can do in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It might be interesting to know how you have responded to queries at the highest level. Ministers, as a minister entered, when he has called for information about how this harmony has been maintained and so forth. I have in front of me a timeline in the company of one company with the government. It's not because of anything I think of that business being pulled on the stupid ears. It's really amazing to look at this march all over the world. In addition to asking how the response has been to the secretary's query in a series of action, I would like to present a question that reads, with the permission of a president: Who considers a minister to be reasonable the next steps for change and possible discharges for the companies that are unable to implement his services in such a way that the risk of transmission will be negligible and, in any case, in case, the transmission becomes as simple as possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u10	Mr. President. The response from the competent authorities has been on the way to include further risk assessment is required. The evaluation of the disease - control authorities is simply in the process of meeting these tourists with too much risk. I want here as far as this, so that we have as much general rules as we can, that we have general conditions and standards as companies and people can then try and come here and act on the basis of the rules we set. I believe that accepting this group of people on the basis of the rules of general society can ensure the utmost security. I believe that the events and cases have been successful, since we have welcomed people who are involved in various business operations. [[The president calls.]] I believe that we should seriously consider taking such steps because these are economic interests and must be very moderate when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u11	Mr. President. There are earthquakes, and there are Koreans, and there are over 26,000 people on unemployment record. When such a situation does not seem necessary, many may feel that it is a reason to be upset about the celebration of the village with involvement in the finance minister and the phone calls of the minister of justice the next day to the chief of police to explain why a minister was mentioned in police journal records. I've heard lndependence talk about storms in a glass of water in this relationship and I might as well talk about breeze in a glass of bubbly wine - nothing, say men. But is it? It's about the independence of the police. It's about the order of power and respect. It's about all citizens sitting at the same table with the law. Police journals, they have sometimes been very close to people in sensitive positions at delicate times. However, it is only when a minister is in a public position where it is thought that the treatment protocol has been broken and that it is mentioned in police diary entry to the office of Minister for a reason to pick up the tool. Why? A minister has said that the media had much contact with him, and she has talked about the protective principles of identity, regardless of the opinion of a Peronist who didn't see any offense. Were the media asking the Minister about it, on the personal protection note and this diary entry from personal protection issues? It's the highest. Will a minister be willing to share with the rest of us what she had, and the chief of police in the capital area went through these calls?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to first state that this isn't the first time I've picked up the tool and talked to the police about a number of matters that are in my bones and not the first time I've talked about journal records with the police. There have been some things where the police have had to apologize for journal records that have gone too close to the citizens of this country. I've had such conversations before with the police, and I have them very regularly. And, fortunately, I have very good relations with the local police, organized violations, and other matters I have had to answer for. I've been trying to tell you what I've done with us a million times. I asked about the rules of procedure on these journals because I had received questions about them from the media as well as from any personal protection policy and how the police viewed them. However, in the conversation with the chief of police, I also stated that I wasn't particularly concerned with us in this matter but that I wanted to answer only the media that were pointing at me later in the day about these rules not only to the person who was mentioned but to how the journal entry was presented and to what rules apply to the police in providing information in these entries. So there were questions I had received from the media, and I have endeavored to be well informed before answering the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u13	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. If I understand the highest. Minister correctly, the media was most concerned with being allowed to know about police regulations about such journals. Do I get it right? As far as I know, we have a certain chain of power and respect; the president of the political party and government leader is suspected of violations of the political defence regulations established by the government itself, and it is presented in the police diary which is involved in the meeting. On two occasions, Justice Minister of Justice will call his lieutenant, the chief of police, to explain the intention of a financial offense. And those calls were not recorded in the Ministry, as is the rule on all such formal and informal communication, as it says. Why? [[The president calls.]] Were they not meaningful communication? And if they weren't important, then why were people being called at 4:30 a.m. on Christmas Eve?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u14	A respectable president. Whether the media was the most concerned about this, I don't think it was. But they reviewed it and asked me about those rules the other day after they had called me in the early morning to see who had been the counseled minister. I'm not gonna judge what the media is most concerned about, but this was the situation. The media noted that the entry had been unusual, that it would have been detailed, and many of these were presented in the media that very day. It is also true to assume that there is a hall for research rather than a minister. Was that communication not important? I don't record, and it's not my duty to sign up informal conversations with the founders to look for information. As you can see in the protocol on registrational protocols, this call does not fit in with protocols on registration. The information collection of individual employees and Ministers, to include to give proper information to the media and to the public simply do not agree with that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u15	A respectable president. One of the most serious challenges that we face during the Covid pandemic is increasing in close relationships. This has greatly increased today's meeting limit and an increasing presence at home. A campaign on awareness of these issues and the information fair of the Emergency Line for the victims of violence set out in October is certainly an important step, and measures against violence have yielded many excellent suggestions for improvement. But the greatest challenge we face is to let the justice system work for victims of violence, for it certainly does not. In 2016 a new penal law required violence in close contacts, in particular 218. par. b, which includes 6◯16 years of imprisonment for such behavior. Even so, we see repeated reports of the acquiesces in domestic violence. In the recent court of the Shire, a person was exonerated by the charge of domestic violence in spite of very strong evidence, not because he was not violent, but because only one offense could be proved against him, not that he had been repeated. The rationality of the court is that violence must be classified as a particularly gross or repetitive in order to be condemned in a close relationship. In another example, in the latter part of the last year, a man was acquitted of the charges of violence in close relationships, since the one he attacked was just his girlfriend, and this did not depend on the law's description of intimacy. I would like to assume that a minister does not feel justified in this situation for the victims of violence, so I ask: How will a minister respond to obvious gaps in the law of domestic violence, and how would a minister intend that the justice system begin to work for victims of violence?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for discussing this. In the past few years, we have been trying to strengthen the rights of those who have suffered violence in close relationships. Many things have changed for the better in these matters, but I agree with them. A senator needs to see if the interpretation of this is simply too tight in the law. The police will follow through with a number of climate changes to help ensure the protection of these victims, e.g. to take the person away from the house and to be able to obtain a restraining order within 24 hours. Police work was changed because it was put on the front of the former police officer and the present police officer. I've had a conversation with the Marshal about these matters, and we've talked about how this could be reinvestigated. Is it time to consider what has been changed, and what has proved to be good, and what has not been in harmony with what was suggested? That work and that conversation is going on between me and the police, and I'm sure we'll follow up on this and on the other hand, on the other hand, on protection from violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u17	President. I appreciate the answer. It's about to take care of the police. But on behalf of the victims of the court system, I'm going to make a poem, the justice system in the eyes of women. A man beats his wife. You try to kill your girlfriend. A Man Rapes His Mate And a group of men rape a girl at a party and pick her up. They'll tell you, but they'll tell no. They were defending themselves, they thought she liked it. The system of justice says: Yes, they are happy that it was not more serious. They could have killed them, and we might have taken a closer look. But they lived. Lucky. It says, "Why does the whole system of judgment hate women?" In a report from the beginning of the year, we saw that one third of the convictions in rape cases have been turned back to the National Court. This new level of judgment designed to strengthen and strengthen the legal system seems to be the most successful of all - time sex records, to question the intentions of the rapists, and to make comments on the condition of the victims. There is a tremendous problem here, so we need to act. The justice system fails repeatedly. So again I ask: How will a minister get involved with the system of justice to work for victims of violence?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u18	A respectable president. Of course, evidence is a judge, but it is for us that if it is not clear enough what we are going to do with these important and important improvements in anti - violence legislation, we need to reevaluate it. It's very important to do so in cooperation with all parties involved in these matters at all levels. Having a special law in criminal law that describes violence in a close relationship, making it criminal, is a very important message to the community that violence in close relationships will not be tolerated. Such violations are not private, and the lawgiver is required to apply themselves to them, and we are going to do so, that the protection of these individuals is great. We have done so by various means, and we will not stop here, but we will make sure of it. We do this by putting it into the penal code that domestic violence is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u19	Mr. President. On the board of directors' website, the President's permission says: DURING a competitive, international - oriented world, new creation is the basis for progress and increase in values. During our restoration, we take our minds together and get tired of reminding ourselves that our professional life is too monotonous and too sensitive to fluctuations. Tragedy is a shock caused by it. The problem, however, is that we quickly forget the events we've been through when it's better. This has led to more use of innovation as a short - term solution than a long - term solution. That's the wrong approach. We are afraid that the same will happen now. True, the government has done much good to support innovation, technology, and evolution. Many of this, however, is a temporary struggle because of the decline. A fine example is provisional regulations that were added to support innovation companies, which included a temporary reimbursement for research and development. The Parliamentary Organization has provided a bill that makes them permanent. This is a general but non-specific support. He insists that companies themselves finance the way in the first place but provides them with an important space to put a little more risk on investment in research and development. The company grows, increases the variety of jobs, providing benefits to society, progress, taxes, and employment. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he support our efforts in restoration? Will he support the bill of staging these preliminary regulations?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry, but let me begin by saying that my approach to innovation is by no means short of time. This is not a short - term solution. My focus has been on innovation since I stepped into this Ministry and long before a Covid crisis or a financial recession. Emphasis on innovation is simply a prerequisite for us to maintain a comparable quality of life, to make sure that we live, live, work, and move here. It doesn't matter whether we look at opportunities for valuables, increased currency, or solutions to the challenges we face, whether they are biological changes in society, climate, etc., innovation is the answer to all of this. Once we've gone to such large changes and a great deal of support in the reimbursement of corporate research and development costs, it is important that it is also taken out what it does. So I don't make a comment that we've been in this for a while to be sure that we're setting up support in the right places. As a matter of fact, I think we're doing it because we've been getting a lot bigger and you're feeling really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, What I've been focusing on in my Ministry, and I'm a cooperative project between us and the Ministry of Economics, is also that the work is being done, that we are absolutely certain that we are paying back in accordance with the goals we have set for ourselves. It's a good thing that things have gone up a lot. But the so - called expenses, if expenses can be called, are always the proportion of activity, have been more than we have planned. I also want us to have a solid foundation before we make a decision as to whether this process is now available to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it was rather positive. Of course, a solid land must be built. But I think the responses of the companies who have enjoyed their support are now more and less all that needs to be said. I'd still like to focus on other things and ask the highest possible questions. Minister of treasure, which I hope is in the burden, which is by the law of Krea, the sceptre, and the innovation. A law on him was accepted nine months ago and is designed to play a prominent role in the funding of the so - called index funds. The need for such funds is very urgent, and it is called for them to be able to care for newer institutions that are beginning to grow. To me, it's kind of Kría not to be taken into service already. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Can it tell us exactly when the fund will begin, and what has caused it not to be started long ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u22	Mr. President. Yes, I can answer that. We'll take care of the factors we've been working on, i.e. to appoint a government in Kía, where local, industrial, and innovation are represented, the secretary of finance has one representative and the prime minister has one representative. We are prepared to have a regulation that we would like the government to see before it is finally taken care of. The fund needs to be completed. We've worked very hard on the Regulation because it's very important that Kría's clearly what it is and what it isn't. It's totally great to feel the tremendous increase in interest, or, in fact, decisions and demand, in terms of starting a few funds. I believe that this environment is developing very fast and much and in the long future here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u23	A respectable president. In 1978, the Western Energy farm was founded as part of a rural community in the West and the State, but since 2002 energy has been fully owned by the State and thus by an official community. The company has decades of experience in the activation of water power and earth heat and is the only energy company in the country that has both the distribution and the sale of electricity. Power plants and electrical power stations are used to deliver electricity emissions along with the necessary constructions. The company runs seven hydropower companies that produce approximately 90,000 megawatts a year, which accounts for about 60% of the energy use of the West. With the company, 70 people work on both production and distribution systems, viewing the Western business as a homestaining company. The energy farm's uniqueity in the electricity market is that the distribution point has not been separated from the production and sale of electricity. A change in electricity law required separation of competitive and special aspects of electricity. Government consultations can be arranged to improve the regulation of electrical activity. There's a suggestion to investigate the harmony of Rarisks and Orcs' Westfjords. Deloitte's report points out that the network can be coordinated and that it is the first option to unite these enterprises in view of their public interest. If cohesion were to occur, these factors would have to be separated by electrical law. Then I ask the highest. Minister: If one is willing to combine what a Minister intends to do with the part of the energy tank that belongs to the competitive part, or the production and sale of electricity? Second, the energy dealer is owned by Rark and is responsible for the manufacture and sale. Are they looking to combine a competitive part of the energy farm with that company? And third: If so, would it be an option to move it together to the West Coast?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u24	Mr. President. It is true that within government consultations, measures are under way to improve the order of electricity work. It allows for the development of changes in electricity laws and, on the other hand, some changes and suggestions on the improvement of regular tasks in order to increase efficiency and simplicity and increase the incentive to employ authorised instruments. These suggestions are actually based on work that we did with Deloitte on the transport and distribution of electricity. One of these measures is the study of the union of Raiks and Orcs from the West. This is not a new idea. They have occurred in the past few years. I believe, however, that now we are setting up a special job, and we are going to dig deeper into the pros and cons of such unity. There is much to discuss in this context. We've got quite a bit of diffuse food and a variety of assets. These two are, like, a whisk. A senator came in, about 100% owned by the state, and it's not a natural law that they have to be five. It is simply a question of why we come forward with such an opinion. Of course, we have what we need. A senator is well - aware, and we have discussed many of this hall, working to balance national and urban energy costs. Ideas of one common currency have include has been taken for a thorough examination. The concept of the cohesion of diffusers is of the same nature and is primarily about the increased efficiency and efficiency of the distribution network of electricity sources in Iceland, the interests of distribution employers, wherever they are prepared. There we are simply not to rule out anything in my opinion. So here it is suggested that a formal team be set up to review this and consult these companies and other key elements. I agree with what. A member of the Council of Energy Camp of the West is a solidarity company and stability in Isafjörg, and it is of great importance to the region. I've felt sorry that Despite the fact that the company's customers are all there, there was no increase in the area in the country. If you allow yourself to draw some vision of where the service is given and where the work is done, there are opportunities for my improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u25	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers, but again, the question of the competitive part remains, what do we do with the production of the energy farm if we split this up. Similarly, improvements in electrical activities also highlight the quality of electricity and supply safety. A recent report on the provisional security of electrical energy in the Westlands states that during the West, it was a longer but inferior event than in most other countries. This is not a new report for Westerners, and this has long been put under pressure to reform, but the situation remains in spite of some improvements over the years. However, the question is: Will unity result in the efficiency of electricity transport within the diffuse carotid section of the quarter, with an increase in stringedges, and at the same time in the triunes? I then remind you of the question that was not answered earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u26	Mr. President. In fact, it is too early to answer what happens to the competitive part of the plant, to such unity, or whether it can join the competitive side of the Raiks. It is part of the work ahead of us to analyze such factors. Regarding the question whether to move a common company to the Westfall, I'm just saying, Nothing in that material can be excluded. I refer to the goals mentioned earlier to promote national activities, as shown in this procedure in a carton. It is true that industrial development in Western Europe is subject to the insecurity of electricity in these areas compared with other parts of the country. This is recognized and reduces the competitiveness of the region. This is recognized in a synopsis of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems. A joint project by the government, Landsnet, and Powerfjords of the West is designed to strengthen the delivery security of electrical energy on the West. Landsnet has set priorities in its system plan for specific projects, and so have such funds gone to Rorries and Orcsus Vestsfjords. I believe that the possible uniting of Raiks and Orcsus Westfjords could have additive effects that will result in our system getting stronger. It is the aim of all of this to promote national activities, to improve efficiency, economic management, and to promote this service to the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u27	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this special discussion of infrastructure and national security. We are thoroughly reminded that we live in a living country that is constantly shaped and can at times be hard to build. The storms have set up electrical power systems, avalanches have fallen west, and alpine in the east, the pandemic of Covid-19 has placed not only daily life in Iceland but also around the world, and it is difficult to transport between countries. Today, the southwest corner is shaking as a result of an earthquake in the Smokey Peninsula, and at this moment it is unpredictable to which end it will take. All of this raises persistent questions about national security, national infrastructure, energy security, food security, Internet security, and how we generally make sure that people in general can be safe in their homes. We can see that during the last days, earthquakes have brought up a media discussion of how we, for example, are doing so. Areas built on the southwestern corner of the country if things went wrong and how they would react if lava crossed the Smokey Way or the South Coast, etc. It should be noted that at the present time such a remote possibility exists, but if we have been taught something by the past few years, it is not to rule out anything. The task is no longer to make national security policy and any plans that are waiting in a drawer at the time of the disaster. It is vital that we constantly review the government's activities and policies regarding national security. If we were, for example. These days, nice and nice with the national airport at the Washingo? Would it be wise if a major disaster occurred in an upset international flight of Haksundun, the Smokey Way closed by lava, and the result of this insured transport to the Cheflavík International Airport? How should we make room for such an environment in Southnes and in the capital area? These are difficult questions that we need to answer. The report by the Prime Minister on wood and national security requested by the Independence Party for a year points to the results of a special network of infrastructure reforms, which says that the process needs to be simplified because of the preparatory action on electrical transport systems, in which individual national interests have taken a long time in administrative management. This case will soon enter the palace of the Generals. Of course, it will continue to be recognized that the primary responsibility for the implementation of organizational matters lies with the rural population, but it is at the same time a state of state to be able to enforce general planning policies and responsibilities based on events such as example in neighboring countries, such as Denmark and Norway. The resolution of national security policy for Iceland, adopted at the General Assembly on April 13, 2016, is considered by the members of the Independence Party, who requested the report, not detailed enough on these factors, i.e. the importance of transport, power and communication systems, network security and food security, with regard to the safety of the entire city and community. Thus, we believe that the security of social infrastructure will be assessed in terms of national security and the basis for a well - established national legislation on the security of the nation. Also, it is urgent to analyze thoroughly the basic infrastructure of society and the social infrastructure that is considered important when considering national security. Thus the national security and collective understanding of what is involved in the national security arrangement can be guaranteed. That common understanding is essential for the national kingdom to ensure national security. We politicians tend to think about the country in terms of their interests and to think about their assignments. Such thinking can be a major offense in terms of overall safety concerns. We need to build up the public defense and security system so it works as a whole, how, for example. The national airports can work together, either within the country or in an international flight, how the electrical energy system works overall in order to ensure the national energy security, how the road system connects parts of the country at difficult moments, and when it can carry a large number of people out of danger in a short period of time. V.E.G. President. Much is discussed in the media these days. Happily, the blackest forms have the tendency to fail. It's my belief that things are going the best way. It doesn't change that we, sitting in this hall, General and Government, have the highest responsibility here. It is our tireless duty to ensure the best security of our country and nation. Then we need to think about what, under other circumstances, would be impossible. That responsibility rests heavily on our shoulders, but under it we must never fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Will the Njáll of Trausti of Friðbertsson for giving us an opportunity to discuss the state of infrastructure and national security, which is just one of the key elements of the present government and perhaps even become more pronounced because of the recent events that have crossed society. Hv. In recent days, a member of the council began to discuss the echoes of the Smokey Peninsula, which we have all experienced. And it is not much to remember when a storm swept through the northern part of the country, which, in fact, preconceived every corner. If this storm has taught us something, it is important that our community's policy is coordinated, that different agencies work together to make clear goals. In the beginning, I'm going to say that even though we're a small community, it seems too often that agencies and the Ministry have trouble working together. Each of us just wants to take care of his troubles and not realize that we're all slaves to the whole community, servants to the community. Here is a recent follow-up report that may not have attracted much attention, for a follow-up policy is not necessarily popular in the media. It discusses the success of following the action we decided to take after the storm. I'll mention it as an example of how policy should work and how to work. There we set up 287 new measures or shortcuts to strengthen the infrastructure of the country that was about to be created, to increase the reliability of electrical and communications systems, to define the role and design of companies and institutions, to conform to a public network, to the development of public defences, to educational and information to the public, and to the development of research and follow-up of natural space. First follow-up, because it's just the first of many people if I have any advice, it's over. It is stratified into short - term and long - term surgery and at 85% of the long - term operations are started and working at well over half of the short - term operations was completed by the end of 2020 when the campaign was completed at ten months. This is how we're supposed to approach our projects because it's about total interest. It's not about a single-scale thing, and it's not about any kind of agencies or departments. Hv. A senator mentions the importance of legally defined which parts of society or parts of it are considered important in terms of national security. So it is to say that I have started work on exactly this project. . i.e. develop proposals to shape a law that enables governments to make formal decisions on which infrastructure is considered important by national security, national protection and investments in specific infrastructures, in order to form land and natural resources. But we can also discuss such things as edifices and other infrastructures, important for national security. When we discuss basics, it may be more complex, but it may seem at first glance, since many aspects of the system are actually not allowed to go crazy. Take only a very simple item, such as reserves, which can be of enormous importance to the security of the city, which has failed in December 2019, but has now been reassigned. Then there are many companies, businesses, possessions, energy, communications, transportation, rejection, flight drivers, marine roads, financial systems, health systems, food, water and irrigation systems, or important safety systems. Once again, these are the topic fields, which depend on many different departments and require great coordination. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator mentioned national security policy and whether it was sufficient. We've made an assessment of the state and watch, and I have expectations that it will be distributed over the next few days, which is part of what we're doing in the scene of the National Security Council, i.e. to show regular assessments of your condition and watch. But it is clear that understanding the security concept as reflected in the national security policy was seen today. It is important that we keep it for regular review. I'd like to mention that the new president of the United States has made the decision that the climate problem is one of the key security concerns there today, so we are now discussing climate crisis at the scene of national security in the United States. That's a lot of news there. True, we introduced the climate as one of the national security issues. But should they weigh more? That is one of the things we need to discuss. Perhaps some of our national security policies are shaped, too, because the collapse had brought us back to a fresher degree, and financial security is there for us. [[The president calls.]] It's a big deal. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to get closer at the end of the board on the important foundation, as it were. A senator came to the end of his speech. [[The president calls.]] But it's a matter I believe we can discuss in connection with the setting of important infrastructure, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u29	In fact, national security must fall within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u30	Mr. President. Here we will discuss aspects of the community that are most important to the security of the nation. What needs to be true? Yes, there is much to consider. In the final analysis, of course, it is the most important access to food for all the people of the country to ensure that the nation's food security is assured. I think it's in my eye. That is why it is so important that we produce as much of our own food in this country, that we have the ability, tools, and skills to produce our own food products. This will be the case only with our ability to provide food security, simply because we live in the middle of the Atlantic, away from other nations, and there are many failures that can fail, as we are constantly reminded, e.g. By natural disasters, conflicts, epidemics, or financial causes, as we were reminded of some decade ago. Mr. President. Speaking of natural disasters, and if I talk about the quakes that are currently on Smoke Island, then today, Smokey Island's sink of volcanic eruptions and recorded history, and it has become a number of eruptions with considerable lava flow. The tobacco is active geologically. This brings us back to the infrastructure of airports. Recent and ongoing events will result in the construction of all the plans for a new airport in Hassahuun, a well - known lava area. Of course, we cannot build an airport in that area. The existence and safety of both the airports in the area, the Chefavík Airport, and the airport in the Hydromese must be ensured.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u31	Mr. President. We live on the volcano island in Iceland, far north of the ocean. The bad weather, avalanches, volcanic eruptions, as in Sufficiency, and now the last earthquakes on the Smokey Peninsula remind us that there are threats to us. We never know when or where the land's going to experience natural disasters. All we can do is prepare well for the worst, have sound defenses, maintain public security, and look out for national security. In that light, we must design and keep all the structures in our country. But we can't handle everything on our own. The climate does not respect borders, and neither does it. The National Council has called attention to the increased cooperation of the North countries on community security, to assess whether the management procedures of the Norwegian Public Protection Agency are sufficiently explained, and to explain further that the joint resources, externals, decision-making, and management programmes will be regularly updated, that the programme of cohesion exercises and emergency procedures should be implemented. It is important to counteract threats such as Internet attacks in cooperation with other Norwegian countries and neighboring nations. The Northern Council has called for an increased cooperation between the North and the Baltic States on Internet security and for the government to see to it that the state of the state reports of threats and risk in the environment is shared between the Norwegian and the Baltic States. An important work is being done on the Internet safety issues within NATO and also in the European Union. There we need to secure our access to information and draw support to ensure that, as possible, we can cope with the pressures of those who want to threaten our network and at the same time be safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u32	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti of Friðbertsson for asking for this discussion here today. I also found the information to be the highest. An interesting point was presented by the prime minister in this follow-up report. I haven't seen her myself, and I'm curious to review what she says. It is good that the report has arrived and is also delighted to learn that this is the first one, not the last one. I also agree with the highest. Prime Minister that it is very important, just in the light of community development, to reexamine national security policy regularly. Many things are being discussed in this discussion. Many have called transportation and communication. Other information is given here in this context, e.g. It's a hell of a experiment and some idea of an airport there. Then I'd just like to suggest that in the government investment campaign, there were an investment of 6 billion in transport, of which there were 5,500,600 million in preparation for projects at the Akureyri and Egls. It is natural that we have safe flights in different parts of the country. We never know where the damage could happen. We may be looking at natural disasters in the most part of our lives. It is a big food security issue, and I have discussed it here in this symposium, perhaps in the second talk, as well as on the Internet security issues. That's exactly what we decided in the last budget to contribute funds so that Iceland could be involved in a multi-country site, or a ◯hybrid center- -- I don't know exactly how to translate it, topv. President - who is in Helsinki. The northern nations have been there for some time, but not for us. Now that we are in there, our cooperation with the other North countries and other countries, not just the North countries, may have become more formalized because we are participants in this work. [[The president calls.]] However, we need to keep in mind Internet security and close cooperation with our good neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u33	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir To help Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, the son of Friiðbert, set this important discussion on the program. Of course, the national security takes into account differences in aspects of global and social, military, and natural disasters. The structure of the infrastructure needs to take into account the different threats and the welfare of the public. This discussion is especially important today when the earth shakes on Smokejanes, penniless, and avalanches have recently fallen in the inhabited earth and a pandemic. Our infrastructure must ensure refugees'escape routes, and they must be prepared for disturbances in the transport of food and supplies and emergency flight problems. Electrical security and safe communication are also vital, especially in the country where experience has shown that these factors can potentiate the damage to natural disasters. Then, whether the State will carry the organizational authority of a vital source is a different question. I pay attention to a discussion about cutting down my community's personal decision rights. The primary responsibility for the construction of organizational procedures is generally in rural areas. The inhabitants of the country know best of the needs, challenges, and opportunities in their surroundings. We are to respect it, but at the same time, we are to provide sufficient funds so that these activities can be carried out. It's our job to handle the budget at the Council. The answer is not an increasing area of state inside but an increase in support of needed structure. In this discussion, I would like to raise a question about international cooperation: How are international standards being carried out and risk management? How are the experiences of our neighboring countries viewed, and how is the infrastructure financed by our participation in national security work with other nations? [[The president calls.]] These are key elements to the security and interests of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u34	Mr. President. Earth's shakes, epidemics rage, climate problems, nature's failing and the economy is limping. There are many terrors, and they are different. When we talk about national security, there is a tendency to talk about it as a security concern for international political differences and related warfare. But the real security threats we face are many; nature problems and what are linked to sustainability or the effectiveness of infrastructure and, yes, the threat of war, but all of this is a map. You can plan. It can be approached systematically, and it can recognize the potential threats, the likely effects, and the extent of damage they may cause if they actually occur. To that end, we are very useful in making reports where these things are considered. It's good that we create national programmes, and it's good for us to consider all the systems we need to deal with threats, to prevent them from occurring. But in those situations where this cannot be done, we need to be able to deal with it when it is experienced to cause the least harm. When we do that work, and that's what I've missed a little in this discussion, it's not enough to plan the job but also to make sure that there's enough money in all the systems so that it can be done well and organized. You're right. You're right. The prime minister said in his heart, that the organization and maintenance of everyday things are not particularly exciting. It's not that much fun political stuff. But in most cases it is far more important than we realize, so we should at least try to add this extra point to the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u35	A respectable president. Thank you for this national security discussion. The question is, What is included in national security? Maybe that's the big thing. Natural disasters are many and varied and now terrify the earth, there is a danger of volcanic eruptions. But what about e.g. The Golf current? Is that what we need to consider? Is it a concern that he's shrinking 15%? Is it a concern if it shrinks more and even stops? Do we not need to consider the consequences of this discussion? Yeah. And why does that happen? Because of the climate and the rapid melt of Greenland. An enormous amount of fresh water flows into the Atlantic Ocean. Then there is something else that we need to consider -, as revealed at the outset, the way we should react to it. Food security is in many ways national security. There must be an insecurity for much of the individuals who cannot buy food from day to day but who must rely on relief agencies. If they are isolated, what is their position? She's terrible. And then there's the road system. That is one of the things we need to keep in mind. I remember moving to Hafnarfjördur back then that was a so - called refugee route. That escape route is not available today if they have to clear the town. How do we see, for example. For us to leave its Seltanes, or Reykjavík, instantly today, at rush hour, in the morning, or in the evening? I think that's a completely hopeless example. We are also required to keep the Republic Festival on the Þingles as a warning example. We know how it ended, the way it was, and the way people sat there for more hours. If something were to happen, then why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion and for the report we have received from the highest level. Prime Minister. There's a lot to take, and it's impossible to go over in two minutes. I'm going to mention here in particular the last point of the report, on page 24. 14, since the question was whether the Icelandic State should be organized in general because of its principal infrastructure on the basis of national security. In the past, the record is that the State could intervene in the organizational affairs, but in 2010 it was removed by a new law. Instead, we set up a so - called national planning policy. I've been a spokesman for the definition of certain basic infrastructures that are relevant to all of us on national security issues. That we have it in that process, e.g. When we discuss roads or customs that go through a number of rural communities, it's simply a national policy that this is the case. It goes through the process in a national organization, not in each rural society, with a regional organization, a major organization, and then with its own projects. It is mentioned in the final point that this view was certainly discussed, but no position was taken to do so. I think it's time we answered in this hall if we don't need to pick up the land structure and put in certain shallows, which would be attached in this way. I want to talk about so many other things, a respectable president. Network security. I wanted to mention our financial system specifically and our financial resources. But I have to end this by saying that when we live here in an earthquake and a pandemic, we are dealing with the biggest epidemic, which is the climate problem itself. We have an excellent response to the way we are going to reduce emissions. But, Mr President, I think we need to make further adjustments to the changes that have already occurred and will inevitably be. They affect our whole daily life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u37	Mr. President. There are changing external situations in our lives, conflicts in many parts of the world, climate change, and Internet security because of attackes, and so on. But I'm not going to give an example of this in itself. Rather, I'm going to give more to our inner circumstances that also change. I'm going to mention growing energy transport networks and more energy demand and improved basic relationships, the optics, and water transport that are very important to us, e.g. for food safety. I believe that these changed circumstances - whether external or internal - require a reassessment, a steady reassessment, both of national security policies, policy decisions, and financing. Therefore, I believe that a general review of national security policy is now timely. Of course, national security is about to face an external threat, as I came in very short, but it is the internal threat, including The nature problem we're getting right into the vein today. It requires that we reexamine our attitude toward infrastructure and discuss it seriously. Then I agree. A senator who spoke before me, Jerry Haraldsdóttir, that we reexamine our responses and look at this custody and think of how we can bring a part of it to the State on a greater scale. Top Precautions - I mention e.g. The electro-line committee listed here on the committees of the council, the public defences, and countless other things - and improve the government's decision-making authority in that sector and improve good consultation with rural society, certainly. This, in turn, has to do with a review of the attitude of the external threat, where there are many factors and I'm not going to go on any further. [[The president calls.]] But I tend to change my attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u38	Mr. President. Thank you for this very important discussion. Recently, a team returned a report to the minister of foreign affairs on fiber optics and fibre optics. This is a provision for two fiber - optic cables of three in a cord around the country that is often called the NATO guide. The task force says to bear in mind that the security of communications is fundamental when it comes to the security and protection of every state and that the safety of the United States of Iceland affects the safety of our closest friends and alliances. During the Warsaw summit in July 2016, the Union agreed to commit itself to do everything within their power to further the defenses of infrastructure and networks. At the same summit, it was emphasized that telecommunications and networks could survive a crisis and that the alliances agreed on the importance of sound communication systems in which high government availability at high risk times is ensured. This increased focus on communications and network security is also reflected in the reactions of individual countries. Close - knit examples are of the United States, but there is also Germany. The same can be said of France and Britain and the North countries. Already, Denmark, Norway, and now Sweden have chosen to use devices from close coalition nations in the building of 5G-futation networks, so called. In each case, the decision was based on national security issues. Mr. President. I'm stressing that when it comes to decisions aimed at network and communications security, we Iceland are firmly guided by our alliances in the Atlantic Union and our friends in the North countries with national security.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir To take the initiative, Njáll the Trausti of Friðbertsson. In the near future, disasters most likely to increase because of climate change are something we need to keep in mind. When we think about infrastructure and national security, we think about factors such as communication, energy systems, health services, food, law enforcement, emergency services, transportation systems, and other factors. The electrical energy system is weighing heavily there, for both play and work are we subject to electricity. The importance of the transport and distribution systems is therefore undisputed. Thus, the maintenance and support of the system must be a priority, and then we must look to the structure of the system that it can be useful even if something is raised in one place on the country. Guðmundur Ingi Ásmundsson, director of Landsnets, recently pointed to that fact in an interview with the News newspaper. Thus, we need to view national security as a means of ensuring national transport with a more potent ring - connection. This ring connection must also be available, for the formation of the Smokebones, the West, and the Snæfells. The same is true of the construction and maintenance of roads, ports, airports, and telecommunications systems. Mr. President. It is the song that Iceland and I sometimes get out of our way. But when it comes to national security, it cannot be the law. And to make sure that we won't, we have to face the fact that we can't afford to allow the maintenance and construction of important structures, as it has been. Then we are faced with situations that must make us think about building more airports than on the Smokebones Peninsula. In this context, you will also need to check whether you have ensured a response and control if anything happens in the capital area where you have gathered the headquarters of all major parties in almost the same place. Has the highest. A minister ponders over options to make sure that a major response system can be run outside the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u40	V.E.G. President. As I said earlier, this discussion is very interesting and of many things to take. So you need to try to get over the matter in a dog's pocket in order to make sure that most things are important. First, I would like to say, as a result of what was mentioned above on the optic cable and secure communication in Iceland, that of course we need to speed up that task. Last year, we decided to put 443 million people in fiber - optics in a rural area, and we have to continue and complete that assignment. I'd also like to mention the food safety issue. V.E.G. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson recently introduced a food safety report. It revealed that we are mostly meat, eggs, fish, and so on, but there are parishes in the vegetable industry. We also need to be more sustainable about the production of manure and fuel in order to produce the meat and catch the fish. There we have tremendous opportunities, in my opinion. I have already produced two Parliamentary decrees to the energy plants relent and to the underseas and then the pears. These organisms can make us more sustainable, for example. For manure and energy. There are tracts we need to look at further. Hv. paritaprevir Buttuit Haraldsdóttir mentioned the compromise systems. It's a huge deal, and we need to ask ourselves, " Is it for the nation's benefit? ' I'd like to mention, and I'd like to mention here, linked again to our food production, a recent project that will be started in cooperation with agrienvironmental minister, the National Institute of Farms of Iceland, and the Western Community, has set in motion a new creation for food production and so on. [[The president calls.]] It's possible. Good things are being done, but we've also got some serious parishion equipment. We have clean water, land, and energy, and we should use it even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u41	Mr. President. During this discussion, each candidate after another has made some sort of list. I did so myself in the first talk. The list cannot be avoided. But if you look deeper, it's all in the foundation of good financing and good maintenance of institutions and infrastructure that we rely on every day, as well as the systems we don't want to rely on every day, but it's designed to respond when something comes up. Then we must think only of the political questions: At what point are cuts, privatizations, and minimal countries threatening national security? Likewise: When is national security threatened by an inaccessible government? In fact, I believe that government can be efficient and that personal development can be beneficial. But the foundation of this discussion is a political question that I think is too easy to avoid because when we look at the systems we rely on, it's 40 years of neglect on maintenance, too little emphasis is that things work. It affects the list of institutions and other things we rely on. So when talking about national security, we should be thinking about the big community: What matters to us as a community, and how will we protect the valuables of society?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u42	Mr. President. During my first speech, I mentioned a medical flight and a possible distraction. There is no question about it: Reykjavíkur airport and its location have been discussed in connection with the availability of citizens of the country to the best possible health care. I'd like to ask you if the airport and hospital flight in the present form is necessarily the safest arrangement available to us. In August 2018, the Ministry of Health published a report on the increased number of airlifts to medical flights. There it was found that increased assembly with helicopters and the location of helicopter services with a specific emergency reaction in several areas of the country could improve the effectiveness of emergency transport. Airfields are not present everywhere where rapid response and emergency services are needed, which is an eye route. A patient's helicopter can take off near any area, and it can land at the side of a hospital. Increasing investments in this area are more likely to ensure national security because of accidents and natural disasters than do more of the airport in Reykjavík. This would also help to ensure the safety of sailors. Emerging development in this field, along with the expansion of electrical and communications systems and improved surface defenses, would likely be the largest steps the government could take in this time of national security. Of course, there are many other things to consider; the environment, the Internet security, the safety of the superpowers of international power; but I hope that the opening point of the discussion will be to win the government in national security matters will be to clearly identify the major weaknesses of national security infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u43	A respectable president. We are dealing with national security. This involves electricity, energy demand, and Internet security. But what about Bitcoin, the latest gold mine in Iceland? If what I read is true that the energy demand for the Bitcoin grave is growing steadily as more Bitcoins are found and as more Bitcoins are found, the more it becomes difficult to dig, the more computers it needs to dig and the more energy it needs to be used, we are chasing the tail of ourselves. Then we need to start making some laws and regulations about these activities. Then there are health issues and natural disasters. I'm sorry, but we're still in a position that I don't think we've taken seriously enough of the disasters we can expect, e.g. Because of forest fires. That's where we have to step up because this tremendous development of forests prepared by forest farmers all over the country is a ticking time bomb if we are not ready for burning and burning belts to protect it. Then there is also the question of Schengen. We have Schngen and we have a system to prevent unwanted persons entering the European Economic Area. But do we not forget to watch those who are already inside, often being so much worse? That's where I am, for example. talking about foreign crime gangs and domesticities. Is it not a national security issue that we are clear that everything is done to stop such a operation in this country and to prevent them from taking root here permanently?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister and w. Councilmen for a good and important discussion today. I would like to quote the final report by the Prime Minister, by permission of the president: ▪ National and national infrastructure is either the custody of private, state, or rural society. The view that the State is organized because of the basic infrastructure of national security and the country in general has been established. I believe that good cooperation between all people involved in national security is the key to a more successful policy and that's where we have to put less interest in more. We must not get caught up in the thinking of the political past and stick our teeth to old tabloids. National security is the interests of the people of all nations. An individual's interests can never outweigh the costs. I referred to my talk earlier as to how our neighboring countries are working on similar matters, and we can look for an example in them. No country has adopted such tactics without cause. All countries need to ensure their safety in many ways. Iceland is no exception, and we know it needs to be cleaned up. Perhaps we Icelanders have been shy about discussing national security matters in a way that sometimes becomes like a thread in an American action film that does not have anything to do with the reality of our little, peaceful country. We live in a ever - changing world and in a land in which natural disasters continue to exist, not to mention climate change. North countries can put this land into a new international context in this century, where the superpowers have a rich interest and can't be walked as a result of a long future peaceful development in the north. V.E.G. President. We are living in a new century in a new world, and today we are always on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u45	Mr. President. I also thank you for your fine discussion and will discuss only the matters of authority in the paragraph below. I'd like to say, though, that when we look back on the last year and the last year, I think that most of us can agree that our community is a pandemic crown virus. It has an amazing international setting for Iceland. Independent measurements measure seven of how we have been able to cope with the epidemic in comparison with other nations. Why is that? Is it because we're so amazingly smart? Or is it because we have a powerful health system and a strong social infrastructure? A strong society is a secure society, and that's how we have to approach the energy system, the communication system, all these vital systems. We need to think about them from the concept of community security. Thus, we have the best of security for our citizens. We are achieving remarkable results because we are designed to form a service with equal access to all those who need to consult the system, whether during screening or treating the disease. Such a system does not belong to all the nations around us, the ones we compare with. This is an amazing strength in the national security. Hv. The advocate specifically mentioned the organizational legislation. There is now some suggestion on how we can create a solution to electricity transport in another way, which I think is reasonable. I think it's important to go to the earth with caution, for surely independence is very important, and it's a source we don't want to be abused. It is important, however, that we can have this conversation with our rural communities about when it is appropriate that things are not in the usual planning process and are replaced by parentheses. We also see that the proposal for treatment is controversial, not all agree on it. [[The president calls.]] This, however, is part of the organizational legislation of our neighbors, just as it allows for a particular consideration of foreign investments, which I think we need to face also the need to make. [[The president calls.]] I say, " Let's look at what neighboring countries have been doing. ' [[The president calls.]] Let us go to the earth with caution, but recognize that there are major challenges to which state and rural society work together. [[The president calls.]] - Mr. President. Excuse me again, but this is a big issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u46	Mr. President. At the beginning of this year, there were changes in the screening system for breast and cervical cancers. A lot of shock. Since then, the reaction has been harsh and critical of experts. Many questions have been raised in this process, especially that a laboratory in Denmark should study the vision. It has not been explained why the National Hospital cannot tell them or whether governments usually visited the Hospital. I make this request, along with 25 other members of Congress, because of this strong social age and suggest that the report be performed by an independent body. Personal differences in women's health and life, and it is important that solid Kingdoms and health care arrangements be settled. When experts call for changes such as this outcome to women's health, the Allied must listen. This issue involves many painful nerves, and this work is needed to help settle these issues and that women can trust the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u47	President. I'm celebrating this request. I'm putting my name on it. Extremation of cervical cancer samples to Denmark has produced an incorruption of an incorruption level for the record of that important work. This arrangement requires making a dance social security number for each patient and then pairing the results with an Icelandic social security number again. It is in nature that there is increasing and unnecessary complexity, which greatly increases the likelihood of hand rage. That, a respectable president, is an irreformable conclusion. But this report, which I expect the entire body of Congress to be important, is a vital factor in building trust again. As we have seen, a great deal of anxiety has developed among women because of the uncertainty raised in these matters, and now there is the opportunity to start building trust there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u48	V.E.G. President. It is very important that this request be made. However, some time since we were on a welfare committee requesting information about these changes in the organization and the execution of screening for cervical cancer, it reminds me that by the end of January. Since then, many health experts have stepped forward and expressed such concern. It's an exercise for women's health. Cancer differences in health and life, and it is important to have a solid health status. When the staff sees that something is wrong, they should listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u49	Mr. President. Last January, 27th, requested a reason. Health Committee for the Ministry Department notes the arrangements requested for this report, i.e. The decision to move screens into today's uncertainty, unfortunately, that many experts have called the result of women's health. It was also requested to see contracts made in a Danish lab that passed by local experts and the tools and tools available at the Land Hospital ◯ University hospital, and to see the underlying reason for moving them from abroad. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health has not yet responded to that request by a health committee. The report we are considering here today is urgent, and we need to understand how the world can expect this to occur after two years of preparation. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u50	Mr. President. I'd like to add it here, because of the uncertainty and agitation that health authorities have been able to create on these issues among women, among women's partners and among health professionals, I give the highest credit for them. A minister of health to help him to see that it will not take ten weeks for him to conduct this Senate report. It is not unusual, it is incomprehensible that the information requested in this report did not provide the basis for the decision made by a health minister on these matters, that they need to be called after, and that it takes two and a half months to turn them in a reporting form to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u51	Mr. President. I thank the President for letting me explain my vote. The morning newspaper's website quotes an interview in the medical journal that talks to Dr. Karl G. Kristinsson, the head of the Geological and virological Department of the Landal Hospital. It says, by permission of the president: We could have analyzed all the visions. Then I encourage senators to read this interview in the medical journal. It is incontrovertible, Mr. President, that the government should choose not to use technology and knowledge within the country, do not take advantage of opportunities to promote the knowledge and use the technology and tools that have just been bought for the Land Hospital. Instead, the government decides to take these assignments out of the country, to transfer them to Denmark. It is completely incomprehensible, Mr. President, and we must therefore receive explanations from the minister and the government when the report takes over the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u52	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize a change to public penalties, No. 19/190 about mansale. Manor is a gross violation of human rights that violates the privacy of an individual. The violations are directed against the freedom of violations and the most sacred personal rights in order to use the individual's body, labor or knowledge in other ways. The recent research reports by the State Marshal on the organized crime of the region indicate that there has been a significant increase in the development of prostitution in this country and there is evidence that Iceland is the destination for human halls, especially construction halls, restaurant drivers, and tourism. According to state police reports over the years, the number of women's films in Iceland is increasing, with the number of labor traders and carriers on drugs. In March 2019 the government highlighted the fight against man - made merchants and other forms of practical use. The emphasis is about ten measures. This includes a review of legislation in the field and is part of the bill during this operation. The subject of the bill is to update the laws of the general penal law in accordance with legal development in the North countries, international covenants and GRETA statements, the European Parliament's panel of experts on anti-employment measures. Greta has taken Iceland home twice since Iceland validated the European Council's contract to take action against man trade in 2012. The role of the Committee is to monitor whether Member States meet their obligations accordingly. GRETA's second report on Iceland was published in March 2018, where it is particularly critical that forced marriages, forced bell, or forced violations in Icelandic human law are not required. The proposed changes will further ensure that the Icelandic government will fulfill the commitment they have made by validating agreements made by the United Nations and the European Council, which have the goal of fighting organized crime and man - made halls. There has been a review of the approval of forced labor by the International Jobs Agency. The current penal law on man's sanctuaries has been used little, and only three cases have been brought to justice since the judicial hearings entered the general penal law in 2003. The bill suggests that man's penance is subject to changes in order to further improve the protection of victims and facilitate a lawsuit against those responsible for the fractures. The purpose of manalion and, on the other hand, the method of action are presented as changes. Forms of practical use are added according to the known mansal images and including take into account GREA's 2019 report on Iceland, where it is specifically called after U.S. legislation provides the level of penalties used in forced marriage, to beg, to carry out a penalties or in forced service. Then slavery or slavery has been added to the list of the practicality of the law. Changes are also suggested according to the procedure used. A reference to other laws of public penal law, where this is thought to be too limited, is ignored. The adjustment includes the need for a threat, not a threat to an action of punishment, but a threat to carry out something that the sufferer fears, e.g. threatening that the person will be charged with the police or a doer will use another fear of suffering to form a fear of water. So the aim of the change is to extend regulations of 227. a in accordance with Mansal's version of the country and the procedures used in the implementation of tolerability in order to achieve more cases within the justice system. This results in the purpose of the bill's main element, especially in women and children, as it turns out, to trust even more fully in the protection of husbands and children. At the preparation of the bill, a representative of the U.S. Marshal, State Attorney, a local prosecutor, a police officer in the capital area and the County Court of Reykjavík, as well as a representative of the Labour Office, the Work Programme and the Allied Union. At that time, the bill was sent to a group of consultations on the basis of the government's emphasis on human rights and other practical measures. It is suggested that the bill be obtained already. A respectable president. I have explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u53	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice for the presentation of this bill, which does not give much attention, is extremely important. I thank her for doing this, and I think it's very important that the problem is very important. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, as is always the case when discussing such matters because they are sensitive. It focuses on the protection of individuals, both the protection of children and the protection of individuals who in some way have social problems and need clear protection from the government. I merely call for an underdeveloped marriage because I have heard that there is no particular check in this country when weddings occur between people who may not have made their own marriage. I want to direct them to the highest level. Minister to start a small study of the Ministry whether or not an forced marriage may be performed, not to a great degree, but that it takes place in Iceland, and what we can do here in order to prevent it. How is an exploratory examination carried out that must be performed when marrying? How is it possible to determine if a person is married without a legal registration, i.e. that the legal side of marriage is not there, but in some other area only, some other area - I am trying to be very careful not to raise too many questions - but even if you are giving people together to marry, possibly children under the age of age, who cannot be registered but who are doing so within the ranks of religions or other similar institutions. I think there's a good reason to be the highest. The Ministry of Justice will ask if there is any evidence that the matter of the matter can be backed up by rumors about it. If so, governments have the responsibility to protect the individuals involved. Other than that, I strongly welcome this bill of human halls, which appear in many ways in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u54	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in fence laws in which there is an intention to establish fairness issues in matters that may arise when e.g. there is a high economic initiative in the Member States or if a fence demand appears to be developed to achieve non-standard targets. Artists are the Central Party party, and I want to say a few words on the subject. In the 5th. August, No. 135/2001, according to the principle that if he wishes to make it, he has the right to demand that the country's assigned fences pay the fence costs in equal terms, taking into account the length of fences for each country. Is that rule normal and is not expected to be abandoned as a principle? Nevertheless, it would be proper to make a defense that the rule would not be used if that conclusion were evidently considered unfair to those to whom the requirement is directed. It would be especially viewed by the party's position, especially by a financial position. If there is a marked difference between parties, so that there would be a considerable delay in the requirement, and it would be expected that the cost would be considerably heavier to him, there would be a general likelihood that it would be unfair to accept the requirement in part or in all respects. The bill expects the exception rule 2.mg. Section 5. so that a requirement should be taken into consideration only to the point that it will not be considered unfair. Thus, it may either result in a loss or a reduction in the volume of payment of the slave's insistent requirement to be decomposed so that it no longer seems unreasonable. In view of the reasonable requirement, it should also be looked at, for some such incident may make it unfair to do so. As an example, there may be times when the requirement would be considered primarily to be made to achieve an undeserved goal, such as the purchase of the earth. - And unfortunately, in recent years we are familiar with this example. It is not expected that by evaluating if the fence demand is considered to be unfair, it will be considered to be particularly beneficial to the target of the fence. However, if the fence is considered to be of limited value to both and all sources in the light of natural use of the land, it is more likely that a fence demand would be set forward to achieve an unwanted goal and therefore unfair because of an incident behind it. A law that defines unreasonableness is inherently ecstatic, but to them there are some legal precedents. Since there is a law against the exception of a principle, it is reasonable that the law will be interpreted narrowly, as shown by a judgment example such as those of other laws. In accordance with local law, judges must be in accordance with Article 7. &lt; 0.001a &lt; 0.001a &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.0001 &gt; &lt; 0.001 Decisions on fence costs. This is not expected to be altered, but among the potential causes of decision-making, the view of fairness will be demanded of the costs of fusion. The factors that are expected to come to mind on cost change are that at least one factor should be considered. one professional is law-learned. For this purpose, it is with 2 st. The bill suggested that the professional member designated by the county representative of the 1st suit. 7. to meet the requirements of being a state judge in accordance with legal requirements. Finally, the bill has a period of about six months before the decision-making date, whether in part or in all, does not mean that the person does not fully submit to the decision. Such judicial cases are expected to be appealed to the council members of the controversial fence. The Liggi fence for more than one council chief is in charge of each of them. It will also be permitted to appeal to such matters according to the rules set out in Section V on personal handling. A respectable president. This case is true, although some cases have occurred in recent years and laters where it may be clear that the application of the land has reached the stage where the members reported a target fence, i.e. For the obvious purpose of pressing on the earth's sales that had previously failed to succeed in buying, a fence on the border. When such unfair economic conditions arise, a person with less power needs to have the possibility of a reasonable view, as is outlined here. Such scenes arose on the northeast corner of the country, and I'm going to give some specific examples. I think it would be a great improvement if landowners had the option to appeal to their decision in this way when the main purpose of a common fence seems to be to force men to sell the earth. Finally, I suggest that this case be closed to a discussion referred to a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u55	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the state's diagnostic and counseling laws. The bill is part of a review of the legal environment of a child's welfare services. These are changes that aim to place the child in the background when it comes to serving children and children's families. The bill recommended here is one of the products of a meeting that was pushed off in the spring months of 2018 when a meeting of early intervention in the affairs of children was announced. Following the conference, five ministers, as well as the Union's member, signed a declaration in order to break down walls between systems, improve child - care services, and create a baby - eating community. As a result, a member of the Board of Directors on Children's Management Board was appointed to operate representatives from all the problems that signed a declaration of will. At the same time, a transnational Senate committee on the subject of children was assigned to representatives of all members of the General Assembly. In effective collaboration with stakeholders, these members, including members of Parliamentary Committee on Children's issues, have worked on a wide range of tasks and proposals to change legislation on the service of children and children's families. Rather, it includes a bill for integrating the services for the benefit of successful children, now for the treatment of children. The welfare committee. This bill suggests large system changes with emphasis on increased cooperation across systems and improved paediatric partnerships in which the interests of children are always being guided. Concomitant treatment is indicated. the head of the committee for the legislation on the new Department of Social Affairs, Children's Family, and the Health and Observation Organization, which plays an important role in these changes. If these major structural changes are to be achieved, there must also be a review and a adjustment of other legislation to a new thought in integrating services and cooperation between services. With the bill I recommend here, on the change in the state's diagnostic and counseling laws, the first step in that review is taken. The state's analysis and counseling centre plays an important role when it comes to serving children, especially disabled children, and it is therefore important that its role in integrating services be clear. The bill is intended to ensure that. A review of the Agency's legislation was also considered to require that the use of the term be considered for a specific purpose. Although its external environment has changed, e.g. in the establishment of the UN Convention on the Rights of Disappointments, the bill includes some changes in definitions and conceptual use. A respectable president. The bill suggests changes to the targets and definitions of the law. Among other things, it is suggested that in the legal aims of the law, special references will be made to the fact that the Agency's services are multi-involved and families are stressed by early intervention. These are proposed to change the definitions of terms, but in their implementation they have included: look to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. These changes are intended to explain the services and frames of the target groups of analyses and advice centres. The bill, as mentioned earlier, contributes to the integration of services and increased cooperation of the services providers. It is strongly emphasized to remove obstacles that may involve children enjoying a ministry that is entitled to them. It is guided by the success of the cooperation of the services system in order to promote a child's role in the ministry. The bill includes the rest of the bill. that a diagnostic and counseling centre is involved in supporting solutions set up around children established by the Agency to provide direct services. Here is an emphasis on a Phase 3 service performed by an analysis and counseling centre to give to children. At the same time, the bill puts increased emphasis on the role of analysis and counseling centres when it comes to supporting primary and secondary services. In this regard, a diagnostic and adviser station receives a clear role in providing providers, including rurals, professional counseling, counseling and support for the need for special knowledge of paediatric disability, intervention and support. In order to perform these important tasks, the bill also suggests that the status of the diagnostic and counseling centres will be established as a professional knowledge center when it comes to the disability of children with regard to the needs of services. These are proposed in the bill to make changes that affect the individual activities of the Agency. For example, there is a source of policy-making authority to establish the primary analysis rules and long-term follow-up. The aim of these changes is to create a clearer, predictable frame of the task frame. As previously discussed, social security committees are already being treated for laws that change the structure of their institutions in the topic fields of the Ministry of Social Affairs, especially when it is time for children. The bill explains the status of the diagnostic and counseling centres to these institutions. Among other things, work together is expected to be between analyses and advice centres and new institutions, children's and family agencies, for integrating services in the interests of successful children. The bill also suggests minor changes in the name of the Agency, which came to be named the National Analysis and Advisor Centre, with laws on the issues of the disabled set in 1983. A new name reflects the way the Agency is referred to in everyday speech, i.e. as analyses and counseling centres, not state diagnostics and counseling centres. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, when it comes to the services of children with enhanced integrated services and cooperation across the system, the bill is a major system change. They are expected to be taken in force at the beginning of the year 2022. I have strong faith that these changes will benefit children and children's families. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u56	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a legal adjustment in the state's diagnostic and counseling laws, which is the best case. The thing that hit me the most is that in the bill, you're right to say, with President's permission: The assessment of the impact of the bill on the Agency's activities does not allow for financial contributions from the state fund. Also, changes in government income or government property status are not expected to be due to the legalization of the bill. If we're talking on another plane about an analysis and counseling station and there's a change of the name on it, I would've expected and asked. Minister: Why, then, are the lists not also being handled? Why is this not done on earth? Because the last we've got is that's at least $1,200 on the waiting list. Of these, about 584 children are on a waiting list for the Development and Behavioral Institute, and 107 children are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the child-adolescents Hospital, BUGL. This is not acceptable, and I just can't understand what the government's vision for children is if it's not to be dealt with. There's something to start in January 2022. How many children will be left behind, even ruining their schooling, ruining their future? Because we know mental illness is a major cause of disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying I agree. A senator explains the importance of setting priorities when it comes to children. But I don't completely agree with what. When a senator assumes that the government does not have a clear view in this regard. I'm going to answer his questions completely. First of all, we added at the beginning of this year to 80 million to analysing and counseling stations to work on waiting lists. At the same time, we are making these big system changes here to move the ministry again. The thought of this new system change we're making - and we have funding for it this year to prepare for induction, is expected to be less than 2 billion a year in a financial program to introduce the new changes I mentioned, and this bill is part of -- that the need for third-grade relief is expected to draw together. So because we focus on first and second measures, the need for some of the third measures will be reduced in some way, as has been shown in rural society, which has taken a relatively long time in integrating the ministry in this way. But to cover this, there were 80 million at the beginning of the year, in order to work at a waiting diagnostic and counseling center, as well as when we walked away from the budget that the big adjustment in the law we were working on would reduce the need for a third degree of service. Then we'll reach the Development and Behavioral Station and the BUGL under the top. Secretary of health. At the time of the Department of Social Affairs, we offered the Ministry of Health that we would share a waiting list after a third degree of service for children. Although we're working on what is involved in the analysis and counseling center under the Department of Social Affairs, we're on the same side going over it and we're getting the suggestions and results in the expectation. Nevertheless, I say we have this bill, and that we have related primarys and in the current year, to a large increase in funding for the children's affairs. There is an increase in funding for the analysing and advice centres and we expect these changes to some extent reduce the need for third degree of service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Yes, 80 million people are being put in the waiting lists but associated with the 180 million who were fed for the minks and associated with the 500 million who are to go to the private media. It's more money than it goes in all of today to speech pathologists, who do what? They help children with aphasic speech, with sta, voice disorder, speech disorder, babies born with cleft palate or lip, children with hearing impairment, with exodus, with difficulty swallowing, eating disorders, early intervention in speech stimulation, disability, unconventional speech methods. But there is more to government funds in private media than to this matter. And even if we were to add 180 million people who are needed in there, it is much less than we would go to the very media belonging to the rich, largely, that will receive it. I ask: Is this the right view of the government in the affairs of children? If there's money on another level, we should put them in the children's affairs and we should do something right now, right now. We cannot say, " We're going to do this 2022. ' Then we have allowed too many children to get into trouble because they say themselves that a child who can't talk at age seven will not be better off talking when it's ten and finally get off a waiting list and get help.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u59	A respectable president. I will not take my stand on what is done by other lawsuits but will hear beneath the highest level. Ministers and children's affairs. I am prepared to face various criticisms at the General Assembly Hall, not that the government is not doing much of a child's business. You can do more, you're absolutely right. But I don't think, in the latter time, there is no government that's undergone such major changes in the affairs of children as this one is doing. I talked about it earlier that we had put 80 million this year to work in the lists. We're attacking the fundamental changes in the entire child's welfare system with this bill, basic changes. We are putting large sums of money into it this year, preparing for the changes, the biggest changes that have been made for decades, and have been around here in the full cooperation of all those who serve children under the leadership of a transnational committee who have organized members of the Council and have led this work. We assume that in the next year, it will be up to 2 billion in exactly this job, i.e. to reassign the ministry with the goal of reducing the third degree of service. Is there something you can do about children? Yeah. Does the one here agree that children should be more concerned? Yeah. But is this government doing little in the affairs of children? No.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill to legalize the law on state diagnostic and counsellors and come up here in answer to something on the same pants as the senator who was here before me. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, because I'd also like to talk about insufficient funds. It's good to clean up the institutions of the country, like the highest. A minister works hard these days. But it cannot be overlooked that in the latter part of the last year, 584 children were waiting for analysis at the State Analysis and Advice Centre. By the end of January, the highest said. Minister to be employed at the Ministry to identify why so many children were waiting for service and why they waited so long. V.E.G. A minister also said that according to news reports, there is a conclusion to expect at mid - last month from that work. I haven't seen the results of any diagnostic work that took place in the Ministry. But to put 80 million on a waiting list when 600 children just wait in this place, 1,200 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental and psychological problems, 80 million once in this category - I'm afraid that's not enough. And because we're here talking about numbers -- why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson compared this with a mnemonic stream - I'd like to compare 80 million with 150 million that the National Court case cost us, the Land Court case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u61	A respectable president. At the beginning of the year, when we put 80 million in an analysis and counseling center to work on the list, we were also made aware that we had the work that this bill would attract, a fundamental system change that should, in part, reduce the waiting for a third degree of service, as the analyses and counseling centres are listed. What it does to the work we're trying to map on this third degree of service is that a part of it is under the Department of Health, BUGL and a Development and Behavioral Institute, not under the Department of Social Affairs. We're trying to map the complete way in which to intervene. The Department of Social Affairs took the initiative to contact the Ministry of Health in order to perform these tests, and this is the current diagnostic work. In order to enter this bill here, we are in the current year to ensure this system change, as well. A senator deserves credit for having great knowledge and honest ideals, I would like to say, taking part in shape. We're ensuring funding this year to introduce it. The need for a phase 3 service may be diminished after an incident. We have also entered the financial program for the less than 2 billion needed into this new system change into this thought that this bill will introduce. We're going into a new era in these matters, and it's very important to remember that it's been financed. So I'll just say again, we're going to put large sums of money into this suit. Do we have to put more? Yeah. Is he here against it? No, I strongly agree with the two senators who have come here and said so. I have repeatedly served as a spokesman because there is no better investment in the money we place in the children's affairs. So you don't get the person standing here to say, "No, I've had enough already. - We have to put more than we now put on a lot and we've been doing it and we're raising funding in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, the third level of service, including the third degree, is being adjusted. is granted to the State National Analysis and Advisor Centre, but according to this bill, there is no financial support in this. There's no money with regards to diagnostic and counseling stations. But it will not be necessary to evaluate it once the system has been adjusted, fixed its systems, fixed its costs, which bottle neck opens, and what it will cost the government to be able to minister to all those who now hang, not for a few weeks, and not for several months, but like these 350 children who waited for analysis for up to two years, as shown during the previous year in inquiry. A senator? If a dam can be loosened, it must cost something. I'd think it should be shown up in a suit like that. If you want to clear the dam that's in the system, it needs to show the package how much it costs. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers also out there, because there have also been reports of systems of overintelligence, whether to the highest level. A minister has considered what has been done in Reykjavík City because it made the decision in the school system to perform services independently. No longer is there a need to wait for the ministry to be performed, but early intervention is taken to help children who have problems without having their child through these two years waiting for diagnosis. It's the highest. A minister may be willing to consider with us that we can provide the ministry without the child's proof of identification on hand?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u63	A respectable president. That's the point of this massive system change, i.e. starting to perform the ministry earlier, avoiding the need to go directly to the third degree of service; analysis is part of a third degree of service. This is where we come to the core of this big system change and core of what all work and this bill is about, i.e. How we can advance our ministry. And rural society is getting even bigger paces. Reykjavíkurburg has been taking certain steps. Hafnarfjörður has been taking steps with a project called the Bridge of Hafnarfjörður, the Eastern model has taken a specific step that all aims to do the same, i.e. to advance the ministry sooner. It is then assumed that the need for a third degree of service that has been extended is reduced because it is the core of early intervention to provide the ministry earlier in order not to need a heavy service later. They say there's no money in there. We took all this work, all the bills involved in this system change and intelligence. There's really nothing that's been reported as detailed as the exact cost of this, I'd like to say, at least not during my seminary. First, we received a economist who sent out 700 letters to everyone who had come to work to learn how much this would cost. This led to 1,300,330,1500 million results. K. every year. We didn't quite agree with it, so we had another team go deeper into it, and the results were similar. The next year's financial program has now been established because we can't go any further, that's the financial strategy, from the law's execution of the law, in the range of 1.7 and 2.2 billion a year, which is the higher limit of the cost analysis. Therefore, I do not agree that money is not being put on the case as soon as I agree with it. A senator's need for more because this is the first time in big matters - or it all happens too often here at the General Assembly that there is not enough money in the case - that we provide exactly the resources for this huge system change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u64	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill of the highest order. Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs for National Diagnosis and Advisorship. The main issue seems to be that instead of calling it the State's Analysis and Advisor Centre, it will be called an analysis and counseling center. Of course, it's wonderful what's been going on here that the future has assured up to 1.7 billion people to deal with the issues of children on a waiting list after January 2022. They say it needs money. But it doesn't seem to be a problem having money in a lot of things, such as the Covids, e.g. sponsoring an enterprise, even a company that has paid billions of dollars in profit. There seems to be plenty of money for those companies. What about children's issues? Yes, there will be money 2022, 1.7 billion. But what are we going to do today? We can't wait any longer. As noted, last autumn, 1,193 children waited for the diagnosis, and 584 children were on a waiting list at the Development and behavioral center, and 107 children were waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the Children and Youth Department of the Land Hospital. These are all too many children on a waiting list, and that's just things. Here was a matter of diagnosis. This system has created a waiting list to get an analysis to get to another waiting list in order to get a service. It's terrible. It's not supposed to happen. It's great that the government is waking up and it's due in 2022, which is after the next election. The government has had four years to do something about these matters, four years to find the money to deal with the list of waiting. But I'm sorry, that's not available. Today, speech pathologists are being pressured into changes in regulations that make the growth of speech pathologists stop for two years. There is a waiting list from 17 up to 36 months. As I said before, how on earth can you tell a seven - year - old child that they should wait until he is ten? We cannot allow ourselves to do so. Just in the capital area, there are 3,35,900 children on a waiting list for speech training, as indicated by the president's permission, in a letter from speech pathologists: ▪52 speech pathologists work by contracts SI, but very few are in full employment ratio. The post-treatment waiting list, speech therapy, is 17◯36 months. The country's area is the longest. The number of rooms in the capital area is six, and the number of children on the waiting list is from 350 up to 900. Thus, the combined number is considerable.◯ We're talking about children with many problems, and it tells itself that children should never be on a waiting list. Unfortunately, there are extraordinary numbers of holes in the system. We're supposed to require that the government pull up its pants, roll up its sleeves, and find money for this now, because there are children who need the service now, children waiting to make a decision whether they can get through the school system, or whether they're left behind because nothing has been done or, let's say, little has been done to attack the wait list. We can't continue to hide behind the Covid-19 which has greatly improved the problem, but there was money to deal with everything about Covid, except what? Children's waiting list and waiting list. Today, there does not seem to be money, but it does appear to exist in the future. It is not acceptable because it is too late for a large group of children and, in effect, quite different how we are getting - now trembling the earth, not surprised by the group we're talking about a little bit, that Mother Earth is also hearing, but surely she has also lamented the circumstances in which we are. But we're supposed to make sure, as I have so far, that there are no children on the wait list, whether after diagnosis or otherwise, because it's extremely stressful for their families to deal with it. Another example of their status and how we forget a large number of children, children with severe and a wide range of disability. We often forget how we are going to make sure that when these circumstances arise in the family, they can take care of their children in the apartment they live in. The family may live in an old house where there is no ladder and bioavailability for wheelchairs. Parents may find that a child, or more, in some cases cannot get a service at that apartment. What happened then? Can they go and seek help somewhere, can they ask for help? No, there's nothing to think about outside the box. There's a really broken pot, and it needs to be handled. They need to start helping these people. People who find themselves in such a terrible situation and who are fighting, day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, in an effort to get their child's services, their own free and normal service that is to be done right away, will not even get that service, and will not even be able to care for their children in a decent way of doing their own home, or help to move in a situation where they can really make sure that their children can be in the most natural environment as possible, relative to their own. wheelchairs and other items needed to care for the daily needs of these children. No, I'm afraid we're far behind in these matters. I don't think it's acceptable that we're gonna put things on hold. The 80 million people that have been inserted are a drop in the ocean. It has been observed that these things are worth 1.51.7 billion to deal with, that money should come right today. We should get that money right away because something else has been put in other things. If we put that money in there right now, each dollar of it, I'm convinced that it will return $100. and only the consequences of their well - being and prospects for both their children and their families would be enormously beneficial. And let us not forget that we need to talk not only about it financially but also about the mental and physical and health of these individuals and their prospects. It won't be valued for money. It's really just priceless, and that's why it's so urgent. But sadly, the vision of this government in the affairs of children is her responsibility. She says she's going to do something in the future, but I don't think the Ministers realize that it needs to be done right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u65	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a compromise on the laws on the path of loyalty and pollution. The objective of the bill is to increase the understanding of the laws and improve the effectiveness of government surveillance, with the goal of ensuring the security of people in a way that is loyal to them and promoting wholesome environments. The main ingredient of the bill is three. First, to strengthen the privileges of a minister in the Regulation on minimum qualifications for education, training and training course for those in need of knowledge and skills in the field of disease, immediate assistance and security, as well as the testing of the person to demonstrate knowledge so that safety can be assured in the public's way of loyalty. These minimal requirements include for swimming teachers, pool guards, swimmers, and swimmers, and aims to ensure that the partner can save people from the pool, use quick help, and resuscitate, as there is an important safety role in swimming and bathing sites. These measures also apply to people who work for holes or tattoos of the skin, or who are treated with puncture-proofs and who need to be aware of and may use protection. Second, the bill is further explained by government surveillance and extensive monitoring of activities and activities that can cause contamination or threats of loyalty and are not subject to permit or registration. This is not a new surveillance; the monitoring duties of the EEA and the health - care committees of the rural organisations and the duties of the organisations under observation are under way. It is important that the responsibility of the surveillance providers to provide information is applicable to all activities under the law. Examples of activities and activities that would fall below are open playgrounds that need to comply with the regulations on the safety of the arctic and game areas and their monitoring, social events which must meet the rules of noise thresholds, hygiene of areas and open areas, distribution and use of seyrium and the use of airhouses where health committees are authorized to implement measures to minimise the risk of disaster in the environment and to ensure general air quality. In this regard it is important that the Rapporteur be able to use the instruments that the law allows and there is a need for an action that is subject to the law. Third, the bill suggests changes in the law to explain the exact time of recycling activities dependent on the EEA's work permit or by the National Competent Committee. To this end there is a mathematical basis for such activities in Annex IV with the law, which contributes to the clear communication between these two governments. In addition to the above, it is suggested that the EEA will be funded on the registration of contaminated employment, which is, Part of the government policy of increasing electronic administration. There is also permission to apply administrative fines to individuals or legislators who do not respect the scoring practices of pollution prevention, resting areas, reporting criteria, etc. and other measures, as well as to change environmental information regulations to improve their effectiveness. It's not expected to be a financial impact at the state fund for the bill. A respectable president. I've traced the main element of this bill and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u66	President. It is a small, simple language that has been delivered before. This was previously proposed to a Council of 148, 149, and 150. This is simply to make it necessary for a government and law - inspired newspaper to be distributed electronically and electronically to be free of charge to users. Everything published will be accessible in an electronic way in an open-label data format. It is a very simple bill that has been given before, and I merely refer to a previous talk in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u67	A respectable president. It is a very simple bill, which has been submitted twice before by Council of Bears, last at the 145th legislature, and then was reassigned to a 149th and 150th legislation council. It's about dropping an exception from principle 7. the law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state where it is obliged to advertise jobs in the state, so that the rule also applies to the order of the Ministry and the ambassador. Since the publication of the bill, a change in law has been made regarding the advertisement and the application of ambassadors for a job that would have to be taken into account in the Committee when the 2nd hearing of 2 mg. 14th par. The law goes away. The changes made since the bill were submitted should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u68	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in the law of partnerships involved in the payment of remuneration. The bill has been submitted before the 148, 149, and 150th legislature - that was a 51th case in the 150th C.E. C.E. - but it did not succeed for the three times, so it is reassigned for the fourth time. In view of the fact that I've made this case three times, I'm just going to refer to a presentation of the case and the bill's report for further information. But I want to briefly discuss why it is important, just beyond what is discussed in the report. As our economy is set up, companies want to make money. That's good, that's fine, that's just very normal, and, of course, we should encourage it. True, we can totally stop and think if we can have an economy that grows indefinitely on a planet that is not endless, but let it lie between parts at the moment. Businesses make a lot of money, but their assets are quite numerous. Some assets are in money, simply in Icelandic dollars or even other currency. Some are property, property, shares in other companies, stock markets, bonds, and similar items. Amazing numbers of possessions can arise, such as equipment and such. The problem presented here is what happens when a company decides to make money. As is the case today, money can be paid and the amount of money needed must be determined. But exactly what kind of work it is paid out, and the way it is done, there is something in the hands of each one. This may not necessarily be a problem, except if companies are an example of their internal accounting in Icelandic dollars and are making money in euros. Then there may be a question about how to calculate precisely, depending on the date. If we are talking about payment in the form of real estate, how should we value the property? Should it be rerated on the day of the return or can old prices be used? But in the case of a stock? Is it reasonable to assume that it is at the same price, the price of the time when a company was taking the item, or that it needs to be calculated according to the travel date? All of these are questions that present legislation cannot quite answer. Of course, there are some guidelines and some of the rules of thumbs that have been applied, but it is extremely difficult to make sure that the work is always right. The problem becomes strikingly more complex when we are talking about not just ordinary companies but financial companies. Business companies have many additional regulations designed to protect their economic situation, their loan capacity, strengthen their defenses of economic events and accidents. When it is unclear exactly how to make money, this may actually be a hidden capital in order to be able to, for example, to do so. put considerable property out of the bank in a way that undermines the ability of the bank to defend itself without necessarily violating the rules of its own money and its like in the CRD criteria and all. It is simply suggested that we insist that interest be paid in the same coin as that of the company. It's not complicated. That's all. It's very simple. What this does is that it shuts down a lot of the potential for abuse. This does not harm any company or owner of a company that does not intend to take advantage of such discrimination, nor does it mean that an enterprise can sell property to finance money, or whatever it is. There are other ways to make these bacteria work if this is intended. This only prevents simple accounting effects that I don't think any company intends to use. I hope, anyway, that no company is planning to use it. But this is likely to happen. This bill is not to be put forward for no reason but, from experience, both in the country and in other countries where it has been done, either for idleness or, above all, for my own evil intentions. To this end, I suggest that the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee, maybe even be settled there and taken care of once.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u69	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a variety of laws about the pressures of real estate taxes on a job building. Transporters with me have a problem. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadir, Þórarinsson, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson. Mr. President. The bill, submitted late in the autumn Summit, recommends a retrospective change in the law on stress and the collection of real estate taxes from a job house. Therefore, it is aimed to ensure that the assessment of the value of a job house during 2020 will normally take into account the loss of income caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in the most intensively developed articles. In view of reevaluation of the value of a job building, the constant reduction in the pressures of property taxes is leading to a continuing reduction. However, the bill is intended to open up rural legislation to meet the business manager who is not used by the pandemic for longer or shorter periods of time during the past year and up to the middle of this year. In particular, moving workers are looking forward to a job home that has been used by tourism companies all over the country for their work little or not used to raise income in the second year. This period can be expected to be at least 18 months. The taxation of this facility, such as it results in a similar amount of income as for the epidemic, is one of the only ones to drive more companies into failure. Therefore, if, in view of the movers, for good reason, the General Assembly is responding rapidly by temporary change in the legislation so that the rural communities will be adapted property taxes that, hopefully, the temporary loss of the sectors that have the weightiest load caused by the distemperature. Transporters realize that the reduction in taxes from real estate taxes does not make it easier for a local partner to run a business. However, it will be exposed to the taxation of imaginary companies, which have had to close their operations for a longer or shorter time. Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, this bill is intended to be met by a company and, at the same time, their employees react to the effects of the Covid-19 epidemic on the job. The impacts of the virus epidemic have caused national employment, and particularly all tourism related activities, are major and serious. Tens of thousands of employees have either lost their jobs or are experiencing massive recession due to lack of projects. One manifestation of the impact of the epidemic is that property that is usually used for a temporary loss or significant loss of job activity is now being lost by longer or shorter periods of time. In March 2020, the epidemic's impact came quickly and was on its first month during the past year. Real estate tax is a large part of the cost of a job building, but a job building refers to real estates that are listed as such in Iceland's real estate record. The share of real estate taxes in the contract price of a job building can be studied at 153/420%. Each year's real estate tax is determined on the basis of a real estate evaluation designed to reflect the value of real estate in February the previous year. Then, according to Article 27. law on registration and real estate evaluation. From these criteria, property taxes from a job building collected during 2020 increased by 6.9% from the previous year. Prior to 2021 C.E., commercial house-making estimates increase by an average of 1.7%. As a result of the evaluation in February's situation, it takes no account of the collapse of many types of real estates a month later. It is obvious that real estate taxes are to be laid down and collected in a job home where little or no income has been made since March 2020 and the prospects are expected to last until summer this year at least Valuable adjustments are needed in order to ensure that the real estate and its expenditures will not be based on imaginary values as they were a few days prior to travel failure. Therefore, it is suggested to increase the law on registration and evaluation of real estate regulations on temporary basis, in which Iceland's National Registry is submitted to the assessment of the job house in accordance with the circumstances of April and to adopt when providing an assessment based on a situation in February of the year and reexamine to take into account the changed market conditions. It is only natural to collect real estate taxes from hotels and restaurants and other travel-related services, such as the one here has to do with flourishing activity in that area. As a result, a re-evaluation of the evaluation will be conducted in 2021. This helps keep companies alive so that they can re-work employees when the virus is no longer effective and at the same time rapidly reducing unemployment. On the one hand, a proposal is made to increase the provision of income-industrial partner regulations for temporaryisation of rural society to reduce or eliminate property taxes from a job house where activities have been over a longer or shorter period of time due to the epidemic. In this situation, rural communities have rejected the tax reduction and have concluded that they do not have legal authority. The Department of Transport and Civil Affairs has confirmed that legal interpretation. Governments have directed them to all stakeholders to join in helping companies who fight to keep companies alive and who are ready to resume full - time activities when the pandemic is over. Inevitably, rural communities can be properly involved and are not legally bound to collect full property taxes, such as a pandemic of the virus, would have had no impact on the economy and industry. While the law is not mandatory in rural areas, it opens up the authority to meet the local business in the community that is located with ruined property caused by the virus. Mr. President. Economic resistance this year will not least reflect on how fast travel is taking place again. This bill suggests action that would speed up the restoration of tourism and prevent tourism companies from going into bankruptcy because of collecting taxes on companies that have lost all their income ground because of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u70	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a judicial decree on behalf of Þórunn Egilsdóttir. Transporters to this synopsis proposal, along with the Þórunn of Stilla. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide marine eco-efficiency and agricultural Ministers, in cooperation with Environment and Resource Ministers, make proposals for a change in the law and/or regulations aimed at establishing an impulse system so that landowners benefit from upbuilding land and stopping soil erosion from crops that are not useful as food. The minister of the General Assembly from his proposal no later than April 1, 2021. A report says: This resolution proposal was introduced to a 149th legislature but was not granted, and it is reassigned materially unchanged. Soil is a precious resource. It is the foundation of the world's food production and the importance of fighting global warming. Land transplant is one of the priorities of Iceland's climate policy. A climate Action Programme for the 20200/2030 emphasizes the need for an effort for the whole community to produce new measures towards the initiatives of other bacteria and better implementation of organized measures. It specifically shows that the recovery of wetlands is an important factor in reducing emissions and the binding of carbon from the atmosphere by land healing and forestry. There are few countries with as good an opportunity as Iceland's to reduce land use emissions and promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil. The destruction of vegetation and soil has long been a major environmental problem in Iceland. During the past few years, the Kingdom's land - healing work has been taking decisive steps to promote sublingual work in land healing and vegetation protection and to transport projects from land healing back to the provinces. An example of this is the cooperation of Farmers'project to heal the land. The project began in 1990, and its subjects number some 600. The project is designed to strengthen farmers and landowners throughout the country for land healing, stop erosions, and improve future sustainable use. In many places, good results have been achieved. Many participants have improved their lands, transformed the land into a suitable pasture land, and thus increased its usefulness. In terms of continuing to work progressively toward land recovery, there is very little more to it than a globally productive agricultural country. The land of development is limited, so it is important to find ways to preserve it for the future. In this regard it is important to create positive incentives for maintaining the culture that otherwise went uninvented with a precious valuable person and the reduced potential for future production. It is also important for farmers to use hay fever for their project and thus to contribute to the reasonable use of organic materials, rather than decay on their farms. Sheep farmers have shown great interest in land healing and carbon binding. An example of this is the ambitious plan of the Landsam of Sheep, published in October 2017. The year 2027 C.E., says that in the United States, a new "sign " of land transplants, forestry, and recovery of wetlands will be used. The purpose of the project is three: To begin with, it can help with the marketing of the products that have no carbon fractions. Second, farmers want to show community responsibilities in the amount of carbon balance of sheep's flocks. Third, this is a way to create a more varied job opportunities in the country and better business. Nationalisation and recruitment are consistent with the aims of a policy based strategy for 2018-2024. This includes emphasis. Applying sustainable development and a wide range of job opportunities across the country and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by working to restore wetlands and soil binding. Transporters believe that it is important to trust the catalyst that farmers have for the healing of land and to develop positive incentives to preserve the field culture. To be effective in this vital work for society, it is important to make good use of the knowledge, ability, and activeness of farmers. Count transporters to this aim to ensure that the Ministers of the agricultural and environmental sectors will jointly know the need to make changes in the laws and regulations needed to strengthen the above incentives and, in turn, propose changes that they believe will contribute to the progress of the above objectives. It is normal that the project will be carried out in cooperation with the State's land healings as a map of which territory is most suitable for such land healing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u71	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym for the termination of age-related closed-off procedures. The movers are members of all categories of Piranha, except for the Piranha, who are the one here recommended. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Halla the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Guðmundur of Ingi, son of Kristinsson. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: In agreement with the main stakeholders, the Council of Social Affairs concluded to prepare and submit a bill that eliminated laws on the appropriate end-age. The minister gives the bill no later than the Fall Summit of 2021. Mr. President. The prehistory of this synopsis is that three members of the council insist on offering their own proposals for issues that led to the different interests and well - being of the elderly. It was the one standing here. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, who has already recommended the proposal for the social and child - care minister to appoint a task force acting on the treatment of aging prejudices and thereafter. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who has also proposed that the World Council of the United States order a health - care committee to evaluate the health-related prowess of older people. Of course, the expectations of squares were that these three suggestions could be measured in context, one after the other, thus creating a theme day or setting up a program in the council of subjects dealing with the changing realities of the elderly, possibly with other issues that relate to them. It has not yet worked out, and it would be tempting to seek it. That would be effort that would be, in the opinion of what is said here, is worth trying. Mr. President. One report suggests that it was previously submitted to a Council of 150th. It did not succeed in a great struggle to get things through, but it does. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. In fact, members of Congress have kept their minds fixed on these vital changes in each person's life when we finish jobs, retirement changes. Hv. A senator named Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir at dawn recommended the execution of 70 years of public employees, a fine payable but only for a group of employees who are under law on rights and duties of the government and thus go on a dose. It's good to see you, too. paritaprevir Sæmundsson for bill to correct the same law that would raise this same roof for 73 years. In both cases, the official personnel are referred to and included in both groups an overdose should be considered according to the procedure presented. There is no roof here, appeal to the entire labour market, the workaholics. The bottom line is this: that the individual's skills, abilities, and will be determined. The Parliamentary arrangement is suggested to hide a minister in agreement with the main stakeholders to prepare and provide a bill for evaporation of regulations that limit the authority of the older ones to perform certain tasks when a certain age of life is reached. The purpose of the proposal is to eliminate all dates that prevent the participation of older people in a labour market, either in a public or in a public labour market. It is important, and of course absolutely necessary, that the matter be cooperated with all stakeholders. We often discuss the feelings of various groups; the well - being, the length of life span, and so on, the length of the nation's life span, function, and so forth. With improved health, the discussion has also been about the end of work and the right to work. A respectable president. The European Court has concluded that related work period is a direct differential based on age in the understanding of Directive 2000/78/EC from November 27, 2000, on the general rules of equal management of the labour market. However, such work age can be justified on the basis of the anomalies authorized by the directive. Such anomalies include an exception from the workforce principle of equal management regardless of age. Implicit Treatments, No. 86/2018, including ...................... The law clearly forbids all discrimination in the labour market, whether direct or indirect, on the basis of race, ethnic background, religion, biology, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness. This is important in order to contribute to the active participation of most people in the labour market, while public employment is considered one of the most important ways to prevent social isolation and poverty. Based on Law on State Rights and Duty, No. 70/1996, the employee should be advised of his activity starting at the next month after he is 70 years of age. However, it is permitted to hire government employees as well as government officials after they have reached the above age, and their pay should be based on time, in other words, freeness of opinion for a certain period of time, and the individual can be employed as a contractor. It has been practised in Icelandic society, and so, in part, the laws of the law go out. They are justified, for they are healthy. Neither the current law nor the collective labour agreements allow for a general retirement date in a general labour market, although in general the work programme is not working much longer than 70 years. Usually, retirement is related to the milestone when the person begins to take a pension. Then there are legal rules on the retirement of certain professions, such as pilots, who have to give up their job at 65 years of age, as shown by air travel laws, No. 60/1998. Mr. President. Already, in many parts of the Western world, obstacles have been removed. People have a choice whether they want to work longer, and public people don't stand in the way of it. A decision on pension will also be made, usually as part of a collective agreement. The experience of older ones is often unique, a knowledge of assignments and procedures has a long period of time. In this way, there have often been opportunities to build up a great foundation of knowledge in these individuals. The loss of much knowledge and the loss of experience that may be of major importance are no longer possible. Also, when a sudden and strained retirement occurs, there may be a negative emotional impact on the individual. In fact, research has shown that at the planned retirement, anxiety and depression are often experienced in the individual, i.e. that when the time comes for retirement, people would even choose to continue working, and longer then they will display a physical and psychological response. A labour market rating was originally set as a legal criterion, but there is little doubt that the age limit was not expected to prevent people from working, so they chose. It may also be concluded that in some cases the provision to force people from a job market was a way to allow new knowledge and to ensure the availability of young people or to protect the labour market. So employers have a lot to say in this regard. Employers who have the interests of their workplace and their employee look forward to and for long-term interests both of the company and of the employee. Of course, there are various viewpoints. Granted, there may be issues in which certain jobs should be done more by younger people than older ones. These include tasks requiring a certain physical dressing, such as jobs that especially require good vision, hearing, or other physical abilities that are often changed by age. End of work is usually defined in collective agreements and in some cases in international contracts, e.g. About pilots. That's 12. a law on equal management of the labour market discussed abnormalities due to age. It shows that different treatments due to age do not constitute an act of violation of the law as being presented with a grammatical argument devoted to legitimate goals, including employment policies or other labour market goals, as these measures will not go beyond the necessary criteria for achieving the target. A report by the bill on the above equal management laws states that certain uncertainty still exists as to the type of distinction on the basis of age is permitted in the sense of the law, and it must be considered important to be regarded by the European Court's judgment decisions in their interpretation. The impact of the removal of a law on retirement age, where appropriate, could be a few on pensions, such as human pensions. In this way insurance assessments would have to be made on how to handle these matters best. It can also be assumed that at some point, if insurance records indicated that the rights to be rights were sufficient, it might be wise to stop the collection of pensions. Of course, such a choice should be made after the completion of certain rights. Transporters stress that with the approval of the proposal, it is not yet being suggested that the appeal be changed, whether it is a collective agreement or a legal right. The right to start a pension is not altered by the laws proposed by the proposal. These rights and rights practices will remain determined by collective contracts and laws. Thus, the proposal will not be a basis for obligatory work. Rather, it will increase its right to decide for itself when the retirement will be. Transporters believe that with the approval of the proposal and subsequent contributions of the bill, the stage will be an important step in ensuring the right of older people to participate in the community on their own terms. Still, there may be some grammatical evidence to limit rights to a particular function, as previously killed, to the extent that they are a variation of legitimate goals and not to go beyond the necessary purpose for achieving a goal: to eliminate in a physical objective way discrimination between generations. In other words, working against dating.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S.'s Brjánsson for the transmission, as well as thanking the senator for our cooperation with this proposal and the proposal that the senator suggested that we have moved along with him. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. To me, it's going to be taken by the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, we must always examine, not just the rights of older people, but the rights of those in our society, so that we do not have unnecessary obstacles or unnecessary legalties or boundaries to restrict the rights that people have to live the life they choose in the community they live in. As a community, we are to respect the status of people and education. That's at least My opinion. By removing the suggested dates, we are, in fact, facing, not just the fact that we are going to handle human rights, but that we are also facing the change in society. The way the thought is that it is desirable to retire, with emphasis on sitting more fully. No one is interested in being forced to rest when he does not want to rest. No one is interested in being forced out of a workforce when he is fully employed. This is of utmost importance. We have, for example, discussed this, and this has been discussed in a larger context than is indicated in this suggestion. For example, for example, in the years 20033/42007, when new health laws were being performed, this friendship came up in this discussion, i.e. whether the community was willing to take away from all the laws of any kind of age with regard to service or service needs and such, but rather the need for a service, and then as in this suggestion to aim rather on the ability to work, rather than looking to what he or she may be old or old in years. At that time, we came to the conclusion, I remember that society wasn't quite ready. We wouldn't be there quite yet. However, even in this relatively relatively short period of time, some 1,75,20 years later, society has changed dramatically. Only during this period have the formation of future life spans of people at birth increased considerably, and age levels, in fact, are completely out of shape with the reality we live in as a community. I think I remember correctly that the original 67-year-old reference was based on the fact that if men stopped winning them, they could normally expect to live five or six more years and therefore it would be no wonder they stopped working at that time. An Icelandic person, normally aged 70 today, has a life expectancy of only genders, ranging from one to 15 years, plus/minus. Then you ask yourself, especially if people are healthy and have strength to work: " Why, on the other hand, do not take advantage of the possibilities involved, and, like the weather, do not really take advantage of them. paritaprevir The Guðjón - child of Brjánsson Verján came in and took advantage of the experience, took advantage of the knowledge, used the opportunities of studying these older ones, and moving it from generation to generation? I agree with that too. A senator came in, of course, that there is certain professions where qualifications are either very large or very specific, that there may be reason to limit them in some way, or to international agreements, in some way, what we can do. Still, so large, today's work is not physically involved. They're not really about that. As mentioned here today, these issues need to be discussed in the context of the workforce and, of course, other people and stakeholders have to do this. But for example, the rural communities, which are the vast employer in Iceland, could make arrangements not to be hired, e.g. the habit, or good teacher, as a contractor or something when they need a teacher, they could simply hire these teachers because they were good teachers and make them work. And that's how you could count it for a long time. But first and last, this proposal is to make sure that, on the other hand, we are not prejudiced against people on the basis of age, and to ensure that the rights of a person are not severely restricted by someone, well, let's say something a little old about when a person is old and travel. Old people, or older ones, are a vastly diverse group, and it is at best odd to expect to stick to a certain age set when we should be motivated and motivated by the individual's will and abilities. And that's what's so important to this proposal. I'm glad she's back in front.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u73	A respectable president. We're dealing with a conquistancy proposal for the termination of age-related retirement rules, but a carrier has a problem. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson. I'm with him on this proposal and I can't help but support it because I think it's amazing that we're putting in a law that when you're 65 or 70 years old, or at any age, you don't have and can't work the job you're doing and want to go on doing it. Of course you want to be number one: Do you want to continue working? And number two, can you keep working? Especially should we deal with this now because the nation is always spoken of as growing old and, as a result, there will be fewer working hands in the future. This is not necessary if we see to it that those who want to win can win if they want to win. One of the most pathetic things I know is when obstacles are put in place in the way of people who want to work the way they do to microchip and older citizens. It's not natural in any way to have things like that. It tells itself that each working hand returns income, both to rural society and to the State. As a result, it is far better to make sure that all obstacles are removed, so that they are just the will and ability to control, not the age. That's why I support the whole mind of this council arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u74	A respectable president. I'm here on bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, with subsequent changes, electrical subsidies for gardening farmers. Your bill's Shipping's Inga Sæland. Besides me, the entire group of the people is making this suggestion. I will bring her here for Inga Sæland, by permission of the President: - Uh-huh. - The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: In spite of regulations 1 and 2 mg. 58. g. The state's fund will subsidize horticultures at all costs of transport and distribution of electricity due to production of plant products between 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, on the basis of the requirements that energy prices are for work, that subsidised electricity is specialised and that plants in the plant's greenhouse descriptions are to stimulate their growth, that the product is intended for sale, and that annual exposure to light is more than 100 MWst per year. The total budget according to Article 1 will not be limited to total donations in contracts that the Icelandic state makes with the producers of horticulture products. At the same time, the state's funds will cover gardening repairs half the costs due to the development of electrical energy for gardening, sporement and gardening facilities in the years 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024. Ministers are required to hide the Food Institute or other government agencies from providing professional supervision for subsidies of the transport and distribution of electricity, as is their organization and procedures in accordance with the legal requirements. The secretary sets up a regulation on the implementation of this law. 2.g. This law has already been valid. The global epidemic of Covid-19 now infested and the necessary disease prevention measures needed by the nations of the world have shown the importance of domestic food production for national security. The internalisation of food is particularly important when a nation is as isolated as a nation for the import issue of food and Iceland. Therefore, there is good reason to engage in a large growth in the production of horticulture products and to eliminate the walls that are prevented from furthering domestic production. Increased domestic food production will also have positive effects in the fight against the economic effects of Covid-19 for the next few years. As the bill contributes to increased reimbursement for costs falling from the year 2021, it will already have a working effect on the value of it. It is therefore urgent that the bill be accepted as soon as possible. The production of horticulture products has increased dramatically in Iceland in recent decades. Despite the harsh conditions of the land, gardeners have made great efforts to develop food here that was once impossible to cultivate in the north. In the United States, for the sake of forward development in gardening, the public has had easy access to products that once seemed luxury items. Access to inexpensive energy has played a major role in the construction of Iceland's garden. Electricity is needed in larceny to illuminate and heat greenhouses. Electric prices therefore have a direct bearing on how much garden farmers can produce and on which to sell their products to consumers. Electricity is currently marketed and must therefore be paid for market prices, which swing for supply and demand. In order to help increase the production of horticulture products, the Icelandic state has, to a degree, lost the cost of gardening farmers in transporting electricity and distribution. These subsidies enable gardening to sell markets for competitive prices in spite of the large supply of imported vegetables. Yet, there are certain problems with the present arrangement. Subsidies are limited to pre-specified total productions per year and each manufacturer can receive only certain parts of subsidies. In this case, the labour agreement is based on the working conditions of the manufacturer's product products that the manufacturer should always pay at least 5% of the costs of transport and distribution. Already, governments have revised agreements with garden farmers and have proclaimed increased subsidies in the years to come. That is a positive first step. However, it is necessary to go further. This bill suggests that over the next four years, all costs for transport and distribution of electricity for the production of gardening products will be subsidized. Therefore, the State will be committed to subsidies the costs regardless of whether the total cost exceeds the standards laid out in agreements between state and garden farmers and the criteria for the maximal share of the individual manufacturers of total pay. When it is intended to initiate agricultural production or to increase production, the distribution system or spread of distribution systems must be built in order to improve its transport capacity. Industrial farmers are generally unable to choose between distribution parties and have to pay large amounts of money for the structure of distribution systems. Thus, the cost is not subsidized, and these conditions create a particular barrier to garden farmers who make it difficult for them to increase their production and to reduce innovation in this article. The cost of stock is high, and the cost of living is also considerable. That is why the state is suggested to drain half the cost of gardening farmers in building electrical energy for gardening, sporement stations, and gardening stations. If this bill becomes a law, then the ideal conditions for Iceland's gardeners to promote their activities and increase their production will be established. It is therefore expected that the domestic production of horticulture products will increase significantly and that a number of jobs will be produced in this article. In addition, increasing production of horticulture products has positive effects in other areas of employment, such as the construction industry. It is largely produced by horticulture products in areas most affected by transport services, and therefore there would be a major application in this production by increasing unemployment in those areas. A few articles from the bill, with the permission of a president: ▪ About 1st pars. It is suggested that laws be added provisionally to provide gardening facilities for increased subsidies in the years 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024. The principle means that a temporary deviation from the 58th requirement will be made. The package that deals with the contributions made by the Icelandic State to the manufacturer's horticultural products does not limit by the terms of its agreement with the manufacturers of the horticultural products and by the criteria for the maximum share of the individual manufacturers of the Kingdom's donations. Subsidies are suggested to visit only those who spend over 100 megawatts a year. This standard is comparable to that of the current agreements between garden farmers and the Icelandic state and is not considered a reason to compromise. Two. However, certain non-employment contributions are required in the current contract between the Icelandic state and the manufacturer's horticultural products, i.e. to subsidies on the cost of building on the electrical network. On the basis of the law, then, a gardener should have the right to produce donations from the Icelandic state, which amount to half of the cost they pay from 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 for the construction of the electrical distribution system. 3 mg. it provides comparable permission to the Minister for the implementation of the provision for the Food Agency or other public organisations as it is in 3 mg. 58. g. Four. it contains the obligation of the minister to set up a regulations on the implementation of the temporary principle. About 2. This article does not need an explanation. A respectable president. Here's a bill for electronic subsidies to garden farmers. This is very important because we're supposed to make sure that Iceland is sustainable in vegetable production. We should be able to see with the right attitude and circumstances and to develop an ambitious, vigorous industry in food production, especially in the way that we have enough energy, both electricity, clean water, and earth's heat, that we can make this practical and that we can not interfere with the quality of the world's highest level. We know this, and we can see from the lips we produce today, on gratifyings, on tomatoes, on peppers, and in other things, that the quality is excellent. We're supposed to be able to stand, so we don't have to import vegetables from the outside with its own carbon tracks. We are to create conditions here within the country, which, as a result, will also create enormous jobs in part - time jobs. It tells itself that we have land, we have the situation, we have everything to do it decently. All that is lacking is the will of the government at any given time to make sure that there are no obstacles to doing so and that this is the means by which it is strengthened and what is needed to accomplish this too. If all of this is present, we can and will become self-sustained in food production, especially in vegetable production. We can start there and be ambitious not to import vegetables into Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u75	Mr. President. I recommend here on bill to correct the change in traffic law, which I move along with my voice. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörndóttir. This bill is about a lower speed. It is about the maximum urban density to be 20 miles per hour, but if specific reasons are allowed by rural management to set higher speed limits. In addition, smaller changes are suggested, on the one hand, to dismiss a maximum vehicle speed to allow a higher than 90 miles [90 km] out of town, and to reduce speed in the parking lot in line with speed limits in comparable traffic areas, where cars and road users share much of the space. The bill turns to the base of a zero point when it comes to organizing street space at lower speeds because the safety of all road users is several times higher at 30 miles maximum speed than 50. If there is a collision between a car and an exposed roadman at 30 miles an hour, there is less than a quarter chance of a serious accident or death from the unsurpassed roadman. However, if a collision takes place at a speed of 50 miles per hour, the probability is greater than 75%. There's sky and ocean between here. It is thought that pedestrians should be priority when it comes to making decisions about urban planning and that decisions that are eliminated from these lower speeds are taken from the rural communities, who have the organizational authority in the region, in terms of safety and air quality and climate. Only to the effect of such a change. The speed of traffic has, for example, speed. affects the development of the population. What kind of city battle looks like depends on how fast cars are supposed to drive through cities. Roads need to be larger, a place of holiness must be outside, and a variety of safety measures as the process progresses. Lower speed means more dense and sweeter settlements, we'd say many. In addition, such an organization has a positive effect on the safety experience of the urban population. So let's just take an example of some town in a country where a highway goes through, I name the Ummbstas, and I imagine that parents don't always find it convenient to send young children over the highway to school or swim because the maximum speed is 50 miles, and drivers are often over that speed. On the other hand, if they were to organize this from another point of reference, lower speed, the situation would be one there. This trend has been under way for a long time. The government has been reducing speed in many areas to reduce the number of deaths and serious accidents on the road. Here in Reykjavík, for example. The lower speed has been one of the main priorities in the city's road safety programme since 1995. The power of Reykjavíkurburg, however, to determine the maximum speed within its territory is limited to the streets of the city. Here in Reykjavík, it's just a little bit more of the street. In fact, nearly half of the roads in the capital area are classified as highways to urban areas and are therefore under the hat of Vega. The problem is because the views of the roadtype and the local government that wants to lower the speed of the road do not always go together. We know an example here near the General Assembly when residents of both sides of the Ring Road fought to lower their maximum speed after an unprecedented break. Time and again, there had been little power to remember that very bad things would happen, especially since children were crossing the street on the way to school in the dark. As a result, they were authorized to lower the speed of the Ring Road at 40 miles. However, instead of making these views, rural communities turn their burden around, that it must justify a higher rate of safety and lack negative environmental impacts, since, of course, higher speeds are also the result of higher speeds that the cars being more sliding and noise pollution growing at a higher rate. It is not just Reykjavíkurburg, which has the prospect of lowering the maximum speed, but it is the methodology part of what has been called a zero vision of traffic safety and that aims for no fatal accident or serious accident. From Sweden e.g. In 1997 the Swedish government was able to reduce road accidents by half. In contrast, in recent years French cities have reached 30 miles [32 km] maximum speed. In recent years, some 200 French cities have done so. This has resulted in 70% reduction in fatal accidents in traffic accidents in those cities. Thus, there is much work to do. In addition, this step is something that you would have thought should already be made from the government. A year and a year's World Conference on Safety and Security in Stockholm, as well as other advisers in the hall of a so - called Stockholm Declaration, applied for the purpose of the United Nations global target that a number of deaths and serious injuries due to road accidents are reduced by about half of the world's population. This is the commitment of all nations. In order to achieve the aim of the decision by a member of the Member States, Iceland is one of them, with the permission of a president: ▪ To strive to achieve speed control of speed by hardening law enforcement and allowing maximum speeds of 20 miles per hour. in areas where sensitive road users are in the car area In fact, a decrease in the maximum rate recommended in my bill is a declared government policy, but so far only on a global level. It was not only the secretary of transportation and the local government that signed Iceland's goals during the past year but also the Stockholm Declaration, part of a resolution submitted to the United Nations General Assembly and adopted in August 2020. In other words, Iceland is one of the countries that aims to limit speeds to 20 miles per hour, where vehicles and road users share space. Most rural communities have taken this step to an apartment barrier and the space they own entirely because they know that this change is not merely a security policy but also has a positive influence on air quality and helps fight climate change. But these same communities are repeatedly in trouble when it comes to the streets within the limits they do not control. This has to be improved by the bill set here so that all streets within urban areas, whether by local society or by road, and thus classified as urban highways, are defined at baseline by 30 miles maximum speed, then, if design and other circumstances permit, and so on, higher rates can be allowed. Thus, the bill would probably not change the rate of the A.M. cloud, but it could change something about the speed of the East Road through Selephos. Such changes would also develop the thinking of those planning city space and urban areas so that in even narrower streets, the streets that are defined today at a maximum speed of 20 miles may be considered at a lower rate if there is a high standard of view. That is how I can think of again around the House of Congress, narrow streets in the old West Side, which could be living at a speed below the speed of 30 miles [32 km] today. Mr. President. This is a bill that, as I went along here, is in line with Iceland's official international policy. This is a bill that suggests a change that would be fully in line with the aim of traffic laws to protect the life and health of road users, the objective of the law to be equal between transport practices and the aims to take into account environmental considerations. This was a change that would have a positive impact on the environment, on safety, and on interesting urban areas all over the country. Mr. President. I suggest that after this discussion, the case will be referred to the environment and transport committee for payment there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u76	V.E.G. President. I recommend here a small, sweet but important matter, which I also present with the Congress party of the Offense Party, please. The members of the council of Halla Signý, Egilsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, and Willum Þór Þórsson. This arrangement is a matter of equality in many ways in order to ensure the well - being of children and equality because some people are born with various impairments, including impaired vision, which can be quite serious and depend heavily on people in daily life. The interpretation requirement involves hiding the highest. Health Ministers and Children's Department of Social Affairs to conform to rules relating to government subsidies or payment because of the purchase of earpieces and glasses for children. As the system is now, there are different rules about participation in subsidies based on whether the pay is for headphones and glasses. V.E.G. President. I may not be going to read the report. It's not long, but it's informative. I have discussed with some parents who are in the position of having even more than one child with a severe vision defect. One pair of glasses a year for these children, they don't work properly, so children can handle, for example. education, sports, and so forth. They even need special sunglasses with strengths and special sports glasses to make practical use of games and sports. So this is often a significant cost for normal families, so I don't talk about when there may be more than one child. Often, a severe decrease in vision is a family problem, so families often become seriously affected when the situation is present. This case has been a long time for discussion and observation, but, I think, has fallen a little between the ship and the dock, because perhaps. There are two departments that need to talk and agree with the rules that apply to these needed aids, hearing aids, and visual devices. So I'm not gonna say any more about this. I think it's such a case and the report says what needs to be said. I hope the General can discuss the subject, that there will be a discussion on a committee, a prospective welfare committee, as soon as possible. I think I'm pretty optimistic to say that we hope that this is the end of the spring council, but you're always supposed to be optimistic and hopeful. I think there's a hole in which we can totally agree that it is relatively simple to fix it when people know it and realize the need and the discrepancies that are present in the system. V.E.G. President. I'm going to stop and ask for some good payment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-02-61.u77	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill to correct a change in marriage law and several other laws in order to make a clear prohibition against a child's marriage mate. What's the matter with a baby-brider? some may ask. Yeah. Before I explain the subject of the bill, the president may allow me to tell the story about it, and might enjoy it. It is a bill that is rooted in the meeting of the United Nations Women's Committee for Women, which I sat in March 2018. There, Iceland, along with the Malawi and Zambia government, faced side impressions on the battle against a African child - couple, who have been one of the cornerstones of Iceland's development partnerships in Africa, as children's marriages are a huge social ills where girls are young enough to give strangers and often young men, often because of their poor family's poverty, are practically sold into marriage. This is a problem that is particularly important today because one of the consequences of the Covid epidemic has been increased in many African cases. Increasing poverty affected by Covid's potential for girls to be given in marriage. However, as I sat at this meeting in the spring of 2018 at the United Nations headquarters and listened to representatives from Malawi and Zambia and representatives from the UN Women and the United Nations Department of Equal Opportunity in Iceland describe how it would be in the foundation of banning child-friendly marriages in all these countries - except for some small amount of legal gaps that people would be so able to misuse, and one of the things that would have to do in all these countries would be stopping in the holes of legislation to fight the money of children's marriage - I thought: well, but how is the situation in Iceland? That's exactly what I remember about the law of marriage. That's exactly what makes it 7th above. A marriage law states that two persons can marry when they are 18 years old. It also shows that the Ministry can grant younger people permission to marry. Is it something used? people may ask. The answer came to me in an inquiry at a Council of 148th. Yeah, it's used. In fact, the Icelandic government has given people permission to marry, even though the person did not reach 18 years of age, 18 times since the age of self - control was raised for 18 years. It's about once a year, but never since 2016. In response to my inquiry, the Minister of Justice stated that the Council of Ministers had initiated a review of the specified regulations as well as the addition of regulations to marriage laws dealing with those under 18 years of age who are being carried out abroad. It was the 148th Council. So as soon as we waited and the Minister of Justice was replaced. At the 149th legislature, I decided to ask the current Justice Minister what would help this revision. It was then said that this work was being done and that it was intended to provide a bill for a change in marriage law at the next assembly. That legislature came, and that legislature went. So at this legislature, I decided to take it upon myself to write the bill myself and present it. That's the bill we're talking about today. This release is something that international institutions in general encourage the world's governments to be out of the picture. The European Council's recommendation can be pointed out that similar changes have been made in the North countries, the UN Convention on Child Rights can be pointed out. The exception of Icelandic law is a past inheritance that has to be canceled. Once this release has passed, I also think about what it has been like because, in view of the list of individuals given since 1998, and perhaps especially compared with the age of the marriage element that the person had, there is something striking. First of all, unless you have a female candidate under the age limit, you are left alone. So, there are girls who are applied for an exception. They are 16 and 17 years of age, but most couples are at a similar age, 18, 19, 21. There you can imagine that the family might not want the child to have an outsider or what he or she is, and therefore there is some pressure to marry. But there are also examples, such as 2004 and 2005, in which 31 - year - old men married 17 - year - old girls with this license. The cases around the age of 30 are, I think, five of these 18 cases. What investigation would have taken place at the Ministry of Justice to assure us that marriage would not be forced, some form of violence, or some form of oppression? This is something I think it would be right to fix up. In December, but now in February, after all my efforts to get the Ministry to pick up the wire, I made it work and published in my consultation puzzles the ban on child marriage. So we may receive a comparable bill of government into the council during spring, which would achieve the same objective as the bill I recommend here today. But if it's the highest. The Minister of Justice falls on time with the bill when, of course, the council is playing alone to accept the bill that is presented here, and I proposed in December the same time as the 16 - day campaign for violence against women. Mr. President. It would only be easier to accept this bill because children's marriages are a species of sexual violence, they're violence that Iceland fights on a international level, and wherever we spread the message of equality and human rights, we should, of course, set a good example. As long as we have a license to allow children to marry, we do not set a good example. A respectable president. I propose after this discussion, this bill will be passed to the General and Education Committee for payment there.
