ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u1	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and development co-work minister asking for an invitation to give an answer to a question on the deck. 937, of Europe's Space Institute, from the Goddess of the Brjánsson Brennson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u2	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, foreign and development co-operation ministers, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers, and education and cultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u3	A respectable president. The head of the Marine Union insists that more than twice as much price was paid for the furrows of the Norwegian ships on the land, but for the furrows of Icelandic ships, which were good for higher quality. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. Valmundsson, chairman of the Marine Union. He tells sailors that this will be checked to determine if the Icelandic ships have been loaded. We have previously experienced, a respected president, a similar price in a mackerel landing. So this is not new, and it's intolerable. Naturally, we need to know why it is possible to pay for the Norwegian ships at 220◯230 k. a kilo for a fur less valuable than Icelandic commands while Icelandic ships get only about 100 bucks. a pound. There are natural interests at stake here. It's a story of suspicion, of a respectable president, of low trust and low transparency. The tiara kingdom of 2017 was not least as tough and as difficult as it was because of these factors. And while seamen and fishing treaties are supposed to be free, sailors have no choice, according to Valmundur, director of the Marine Union. At the outset, sailors are simply shown paper and say: Here's the price you get for this. He says that the sailors are then set against a wall, and in some cases they fear about their space. Seamen's pay is counted as a share of valuable things, and therefore there are great interests at stake for them. We need to improve the quality of our living room. She needs to be able to compare prices on foreign markets and products from abroad. This would not be just for sailors, for more interests are involved. The country, state funds, and rural communities are charged with taxes and ports. So I want to ask the highest. High - tech minister: What will he do to explain the picture, answer the sailors, and fix it for all?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As she knows well and as well as I do, it's not a new subject for discussion and a new topic of debate, it's a very long story. We will no doubt share the view that the price of fur and other sea products is not government custody but primarily on the custody of the seaside companies and sailors themselves. It's a question of how to resolve this situation. This project has been accomplished for a very long time, and in everyone's opinion, it's a bad situation. This results in suspicion, distrust between parties, and good for no one. I have called from both sides of this controversy that this difference must be explained, presented, and tried to eliminate the suspicion that exists in this case, since its situation is completely intolerable. What I've done, and I've reported it before, is that I've used it, and I did it in the last fall of 2019 within the Norwegian community, that there would be a comparison of the terms and salary of sailors in the Norwegian states. That project started, and it leads an Icelandic economist, Dii Moror Kristófersson. It's been delayed for Covid, but I'm informed that it should be completed this year. The task is to analyze and describe the pay systems in the seas, the Arctic seas, and the Norwegian countries, so we can better see how these trades are between fishing and fishing. The idea was to use the results of this project to include the discussion in Icelandic society. I certainly hope that this project will succeed, and we can draw some lesson from it, and I would like to have some kind of analysis to deal with this advanced debate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u5	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Certainly this is not a new issue. In the 2017 strike, we just agreed to improve the price of the prices firm, but it seems that this is not enough today. The developers, as it looks today, or the contractor seems to be able to decide for himself the value of a member that he then gives up. Then you can ask: Where does the difference go? I think the Minister will be even. Just thinking it. The construction companies - and I want to sharpen them - must answer the call of time for transparency, for trust and justice, regardless of the normal share of the nation in our resource or the clear rules for the true property of the marine resources. And, of course, in this matter what the harvest price really is. In my opinion, that situation is completely unacceptable to sailors to face over and over again. After the experience of the time, I believe, my dear minister of the sea, and a respectable president, that we will not resolve this unless it becomes a political wish that tells us exactly what things should be. [[The president calls.]] It's not acceptable in my opinion that this fishing business is always having such an authority toward the sailors. [[The president calls.]] This must be corrected. The ambition and the interests are there, and we have to push this thing to be corrected as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much from the beginning. Senator. I think the political will is the same, wherever we are. We just want these things to be okay, and we'd like to know as much as possible whether there's any reasonable explanation of the difference in prices. The political will, therefore, lies in calling for the information we demand. I counted for sure, and I'll quite agree that the sooner I got the results of this Norwegian project, the better it would be based on the political strength that would be laid on the demand for information. Unfortunately, that project has drawn up, but I have high hopes that we will be able to stand on a firm foundation to do this requirement, which I feel is a perfect unit. Sadly, though, that has not been the case. I'd like to say another, because I didn't find that in my first answer, neither should we forget that the government also has a means to set rules like that. pricing of the inside and between companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u7	President. My questions are toward the most recent decision. Ministers to transfer the field of gardening from the University of Agriculture at Southland's High School. They focus on how this entry works and whether it is safe to make sure that the gardening school is properly consulted on smoke. It seems that much more domestic production is being done in gardening and agriculture, especially in the conditions we've been going through lately. At the same time, it is a pleasure to learn of the country's gardening development, the true growth point of employment and sustainability. For decades, the gardening school has been called the pride of Whomas and Elfus and Southland all over. The same was true of the School of Sports in Lake Lava. We know his past, and for good reason, people in South Africa are concerned about the future of gardening education on smoke. The gardening school doesn't deserve to land on the drains. Such is the importance of school, school work, and history. I'd like to ask you, is it the highest? A minister will be willing to ensure the future of training in Iceland's garden gardening by hiding the gardening school and smoking status in active cooperation and cooperation with the head of the industry and the staff and students at the site and in special contact with the South Sea School?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u8	A respectable president. The question is correct. A senator says that we want to promote domestic production, and we give high priority to it. Of course, a major aspect of this is to strengthen all study that has to do with gardening and to protect it, as we have been doing. We have contributed to furthering our work course in Southland and have cooperated with all the professionals. We're working on it now every day at the Ministry of Education and Culture to inform us about what's going on and how we can do this so that it's successful. We want to promote the Southland. It's the industry, gardening, of course, very powerful, and we work with people. Of course, we listen to students and teachers and cooperate with them. We will make sure that there will be growth in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for her answers. In fact, she did not completely answer my question about the ultimate. A minister would be willing to consider the possibility that the gardening school would be entrusted with the management and management of smokes in cooperation with professional life. She did not answer that question. I emphasize that the school will be a professional school for the whole country, in agreement with the trade unions and professional life, and that it will keep its place in smoking. I'm asking to the highest. Minister will answer this question. Is she ready yet? How important it is that we do well here, so that our gardening program will create a secure future in close association with the extensive gardening industry. The minister certainly thinks of the garden's shores. Success is important. But some of the components of the Smokecan must not get under the horticulture. That is the most important way to cut apart the study.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u10	A respectable president. It is to strengthen the study there, of course, on the Smoker. It is an integral part of the future. If there's any doubt that there's any way that the job is going to improve, I'll just say it's here and now that it doesn't exist and I've never been there. We've been investing in the area, and we want to keep doing it. We have not suffered much damage that we have entered to improve and strengthen. But that's out of the question, if that's the case. A senator's concern is that, in any way, he weakens smoke.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u11	A respectable president. In Iceland, we have a very envying position on the virus. Actually, life can begin to move to a normal place soon as it continues. The country is calling unsuspecting. A theater can open, and concert halls and restaurants, and life can live here. But this situation is now being jeopardized. The government has decided to open the border to people who come from countries outside Schengen. This seems to have been done by the government to agree with the tourism services, where there are great interests at stakes that all of us understand. On the other hand, even if you come from a green area and there are dangers, you can be considered red. A health - care professional has concluded that this is not a consultation with him. Now I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party whether this may be at odds with Article 12. a chest code that clearly states, with the permission of a president: It is decided by the secretary that the premedicator's proposal should be made whether or not to take the official disinfectants, etc. I simply ask, Is this decision legal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u12	A respectable president. The decision given is, on the other hand, regarding the general vaccination case and on the border, a decision rests on the hands of a justice minister. The material issue is that if a traveler has been vaccinated or has been previously infected and has antibodies, he no longer has to justify his arrival in the country in particular because he has an urgent issue. As follows: On the border, we intend to accept a certificate of vaccination with a vaccine we are familiar with, there is no fear that it will come into the country. This is the point of a decision presented by the health minister and the Minister of Justice this week. Let us just think about this: Are we not going to give up today as fast as we can? Do we not believe that this vaccination will work and work? Have we not proclaimed that once we have vaccinated the nation, we can reduce the risk of disease prevention and limitation of normal human life because the vaccine will do enough to prevent us from overindulging the health system, that there will be too many people, so that there will be no testing of the B.D. and many are in danger of death? Do we believe this or not? If we believe that the vaccine and the vaccination of the nation will enable us to free ourselves from the bondage that the various disease prevention restrictions and measures put in them, we must have just the same faith that vaccinated people do not put us at any particular risk or that they pose a threat if they enter the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u13	A respectable president. We all know the limitations of disease prevention, even though they may have affected us at different times as individuals. I say for my part, and I believe that I speak through the Senate, that, of course, we all believe that the vaccines will work, and we believe that this vaccine will change Icelandic life for the better. That's not what it's about. It's about going to trap law. It's going to 12. a paraphernalia, which says, by permission of the president: a surgeon decides to have a motion from a pathologist whether or not to address official disinfectants, et cetera, etc. It hasn't been done here. It has been observed by a disease - control doctor that he has not been consulted, and he has concluded that this is unbecoming and untimely. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister again, if he thinks it's the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u14	A respectable president. Here's why. A senator asking me about the decisions of other ministers, and I don't have any information on the exact basis - after what survey, conversations, consultations - suggestions of the Ministers have been made, and I don't know if they can resist Article 12. The law. But I don't believe that. A senator has become such a formalist that he does not have a materialistic view of this matter. This case has a physical significance, marvelously, for us not only in economic terms but also regarding our freedom here in the land to restore our previous lives. Here's why. A senator making it clear that the risks are being taken by trusting in the vaccines, that we need to be careful not to get ahead of ourselves. If this compromise is to take place, it will be as good with the people in this country as with those who come vaccinated across the border. This means, if you believe, that general vaccination here in the country will not be the key to your recovery of your previous freedom. [[The president calls.]] I'm telling you all this knowing that new strains of the virus can come up that need to be treated. However, given that we are not dealing with such a situation, I feel that this has been a very reasonable arrangement for the minister. [[The point is: Shouldn't we trust a psychiatrist?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u15	A respectable president. During the last few weeks, schools have been covered with housing and the status of institutions of education. Since it has been a tearful football school, teaching at school has now been stopped. It is good to remember when the L.H.A. area listings as good as molded to the ground before they finally responded, but it could be said that since the institution of the Art University, housing problems have been interpped with the history of the school. It is stated in the Government Treaty that a solution to Iceland's Art University will be undertaken during the term. It was published in the preceding July, when presented the results of initial observation that had shown that either Watermycin or Saturdaynes was the ideal location for school, but in a news transfer during the past week, it was presented in the language of the world's highest level. Secretary of Education and Culture that she expects answers to be made on the premises over the next few weeks. On the other hand, it is quite different to hear at the top. A financial and economic minister who is not saying exactly what it sounds like, is so open to put a lot of money into the construction of educational institutions. On the contrary, a minister has said that the most expensive is not at the top. Therefore, a respectable president, I would like to ask: Why is it not at the top of today's list of financing long - range educational institutions, with an enormously important education of this country's future generations? Should Covid be used as an excuse? A lot of illogical approach would be, for if ever there's any basis for setting a good foundation for the educational environment of creative applications to face unpredictable and unprecedented situations that may arise in the future, it is now. What is that wait? I ask you, is there a problem with the government table on priorities? When is it really to be expected to answer these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u16	A respectable president. We've been working on it, and there was an initial consideration of the need that Iceland's National Institute of Art has for housing. It was over this last summer. Then the Minister of Education and Culture, Economic and Economic Ministers and Prime Ministers have been looking at the options and where the school could possibly be located. The work is running out, and the decision will be made. I would like to mention that cooperation with financial and economic ministers, with Prime Ministers and all those involved in this has been very good. We are eager to build and invest in a place where we will be looking for the future. We've done a lot of work on this. We've been saying that we'd be able to work out the problems of the Art University during this terms and, as I said, in the Morning newspaper, it's going to happen in all the next few days. Of course, we stress the security of our home, the forwardness of it, and the needs of the creative branches of Iceland. But I can assure you what. A senator says we're working on this out of conscience. We too love it when we do it, but it takes time, and we need to consider whether we are not sure if we are meeting the real need.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u17	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It is good to hear and to think that there is a mind in the entire government or in most advisers on this important matter. I would like to heighten the fact that in the government contract, it stands to remedy this situation. Similarly, a respectable president, not too much to expect funding to follow a plan to lay the foundation for the future skills of young people in Iceland. In recent years, a transnational synoptic synopsis proposal for measures due to delinquency in property and the implementation plan was adopted in the latter part of this year. I wanted to ask you: " Is anyone working at the highest level? In view of what's going on right now in Fos Sogs School, a minister of education and cultural culture in school, is it because we have to wait for the results of a group of workers for moisture and mold damage? [[The president calls.]] Could it be that there are other smuggled mold - time bombs in the local schools and that it is a minister working on some strategy to make sure that it is not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u18	A respectable president. In the meantime, mold at the National Institute of Arts, my Ministry, worked very fast and certainly to transport the work. We listened to the students and studied the points needed to be improved, and we helped the Art University in it, so at the time we did. As a result, we went to work to evaluate the future needs of the school so that a new art university could be built. I can assure you what. A senator says that once we've had such a situation, we've been moving fast and surely into it. I also want to mention the University of Akureyri there, where mold arose, and we worked with the school authorities to make sure that all housing was safe. However, we need to stay on the watch constantly. But I just want to reiterate that when things like this come up in the institutions we're responsible for, we've acted fast and definitely on.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u19	Mr. President. The purpose of this request is to highlight the impact of the crash and its role in the families and homes of the people of the country. Following the collapse, measures related to domestic debt problems have been at the highest level. Prime Ministers and proper professional advice. In view of this, as well as that of the material requested for analysis, more than one Ministry case, members of the report state that the prime minister is leading the job. It is necessary to recognize the consequences of the crash and the effects of government action to help increase consumer protection in financial markets, thus defending the country's homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u20	Mr. President. I have previously been in this public address on the grounds of a large request and have made comments that there may be too extensive distances to go and some way I try to get over the matter. Personally, I think maybe it's better to ask more specific questions that are relevant to a particular matter of opinion in this relationship rather than to ask so wide, as is part of this request. I do not deny that this issue is going on, but I am still thinking about whether we are on the right track by repeatedly offering detailed reports that are not being addressed systematically at any particular point that needs to be considered. That's what I wanted to say. Mr President, but I'm going to be with this voter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u21	Mr. President. To celebrate the use of sharp words. The man mentioned here has tried to ask questions relating to the specific aspect of what occurred after a crash. It has taken two or three years to get information that should be available, and ministers have tried hard to put aside a political law and a minister's responsibility to delay answering the simplest questions before the council. So it is not that the request for a report on this matter is unforeseeable, at the very least. It is time, Mr. President, for the aftereffects of the crash to be observed and particularly affecting families in this country, many of which lost their home. The questions that have been asked by the person mentioned here are relevant, e.g. 10,000 people who lost their home, so little attention has been given.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u22	Mr. President. I want, for word's sake. A senator and the chairman of the Independence Party, Ármannsson's son, say that I cannot, in any way, agree with him that it is as open as he describes it. It is further stated in the request for what is being asked, and there is a list of five or six teams, so I can't say in any way that it's not the right thing to do. The case is very large and very urgent. We have been fighting for financial reforms with the goal of increasing consumer rights protection and thus defending homes, and this request is a very important factor in this effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u23	Mr. President. To celebrate the use of sharp words. We have recently received a report on the benefits of being in the European Economic Area. There was a very important report, and there certainly were open questions, such as the advantages and defects of the partnership, which were actually answered only in half, just about the benefits. It's time to start this journey, e.g. Together with the correction, make an assessment of her and evaluate her effect. The evacuation of people of the land: What happened to that people, when they came back? The establishment of a credit agent: Is it not time to take the result of the work of the office that was set up here after a collapse? And many other things. There was a significant report on this question on the European Economic Area. A similar approach to homes can begin with this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u24	Mr. President. I support this request, primarily because it is time to address the false stories. The members of the Central Party have included: conducted a number of homes that went bankrupt after a crash. We need to know how many homes that were and when they had come to 10,000. I can see that various teams in the report request have been answered, but that's all right, the old answer will just be pulled out and added if necessary. I think such a report is valuable to us senators. We can then keep to the facts in our discussion of what happened after a collapse and how the government reacted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u25	Mr. President. Artic avenues are designed mainly for living and playing, but driving machines still have limits. A car driver is concerned about road transport, not because of the danger of speeding, but because of the precipices of drivers who drive too fast. It is reversed by the ability to react to motor vehicles by increasing speed limits rather than by searching for other means of ensuring a safe haven. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u26	Mr. President. Here is a guilty warrant for violation of 43 st. A traffic song that deals with consideration for racers The discussion has revealed neither the lack of consideration nor the way fines will solve this alleged problem. As noted in the case of a historian here, this law is a vague ground for guilt. In fact, a recent example from Ednorda shows that the executive office itself understands basic traffic laws in dealing with cyclists, such as whether they are allowed to cycle in the middle of a fieldway or not. In view of this, it is urgent to postpone this change until the Ministry has better identified the need for it. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-18-69.u27	Mr. President. I was just going to explain to you what I did with this bill; he turned to that problem with the so-called SEC is completely unsolved, i.e. for drivers referred to by the physician after a temporary loss of driving permit. This law is completely unassigned, and information has been made that this law has by no means fulfilled its purpose. This needs to be solved, and I thought to be true, Mr. President, that the manager of this case would request this vote to go back to the Committee to try to solve it and possibly some other matter that stands off the table. Of course, it is unannounced that there are laws in force that are not being followed and that the person who is supposed to do it would just lift hands and say that it cannot be done. We've got to figure this out, and I'd like the case to go back to the review committee.
