ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to the queries of Árnadóttir Kolbrún, on the roof. 1278, about time and the value of psychologists, and on laundry. 1277, about time for waiting, and the value of mental - health professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u2	The President will want to inform you that in accordance with the new meeting restrictions, the following changes will be carried out in the Council of Disease Control, this is under the proposal of the President and the alert team and was presented on the Presidency Committee this morning: The masking of a meeting area will no longer be required, but recommendations will be made. In the case of votes, it is strongly recommended if a person stays in the meetings for a long time. Second, the committees are expected to continue through telecommunications equipment, but the Committee to conduct a local meeting, which they are free, will be masked to all members of the committee. In accordance with current limitations, if you sit for a long time in a limited space, you will still have a masky. Third, the limit for visitors is relieved. However, they should be linked to the Senate work and not to tour or travel only for members of the council. Fourth and final, it is expected that from June 15 it is possible that the participation of members of the international work, including travel, can be carried out as traditional conferences and conferences begin again.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Transport, Industrial Affairs, and Ministers for Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u4	Mr. President. During the last few days, there have been rather unusual reports of a group called a guerrilla department that operates in a large fishing business and is designed to use every kind of member to attack people they believe to be their opponents. The group talks, including amongst the election of union elections, the same is true of the terms of the individual political parties, the map of journalists, artists, officials, and politicians, and they oppose them. I suppose the prime minister has observed this and was inconspicuous as many people in the country. Let us be clear that this is not an isolated case necessarily but an phenomenon that is a new and new method in a more gross economic care. This, however, must teach us that we need to deal with developments that upset our job life, weaken the discussion, weaken politics, and undermine democracy, and we need to react before it is too late. However, this cannot be done by weakening the Contestant Board, dropping down an tax investigator, or systematically pulling the teeth out of a surveillance facility. This will be done by strengthening them. This will be done by careful legislation, and it will be done with a new constitution that ensures the right of the population. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does this kind of method pose a threat to democracy? Does it believe that they can weaken the surveillance agencies and the media and lead to special interests being put above the public interests? And most important: Is she willing to support the changes in her resource budget in view of this report so that the time binding of all new agreements will be separated?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a case on the UNECE march. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree completely that this march, of course, is completely unacceptable, unnatural, and should not be tolerated in a democracies community. That's the way it is. We need to realize that people who are in charge of such a big business as these are responsible for their community and this is not responsible for society. That's just not what people do. What can we do, and what has been done? I think that when we read about events like those we've been reading in terms of attempts to influence interest in Iceland's Journalist Association, there's good reason to examine the status of that class in the media law. I remind you that when the media law was accepted at its time, 2011, their overall review was expected within a certain period of time, and there were some changes in the legal status of journalists. But things are changing fast. Another point I've mentioned is ads of opinion, which are then not political parties, for the list of categories has other rules. Rather, they use advertisements in which mass interest stakeholders use that medium to promote attitudes. So there are a lot to consider, but I don't think we should forget what we've been doing because we've been taking a very important step; protection laws, defense laws against interests, new information laws. All these changes are aimed at promoting transparency and transparency, the basis for our having a powerful democracies community. In terms of a constitution resource directive, this is now a case for the treatment of a management and monitoring committee. I have considered the rendering of this law to be clear, i.e. that the sources will not be delivered permanently, which means that they are temporary or divulable. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's only natural that the council is now taking that discussion on the right ground of the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u6	Mr. President. I would have chosen to the highest. A minister made clear whether he was ready to accept temporary sources implicitly. Earlier this winter, the ideas of European bigmen in soccer were about 15 super contests, where the team did not have to fear of falling out of the race but enjoyed a total of money gain. One who came out and criticized such an arrangement was just the best. Prime Minister, but the same prime minister is now interested in establishing some kind of superintendent of several marine dignitaries by providing resource regulations in a constitution that does not allow temporary innovation agreements. Will Ministers be more concerned with the wrath of any European football players than with these superpowers in the fishing field? Or do they want to support changes aimed at separating time binding into a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u7	Mr. President. Now I'm impressed. A senator falls in the same pit as the person who is now ads with great opinions against this bill, and there he claims I would like to give the big new information forever. Hv. A senator well knows that this is not what is being discussed. Rather, it is simply underlining that these sources will not be provided permanently. That means they're either temporary or divulgeable. Is it the same with all access permissions regardless of resource type? Perhaps that is the major question we face in order to form land quality, which is usually given to a century but not permanently. This is what we have talked about, of course. I think it's important that we talk about this in a technical way and not go along with saying that I'm here walking the business of a big company in the sea because it's not fair and wrong, and it's not true, even though some people choose to publish it in the field of opinion. [[The president calls.]] I remind you that, of course, the European Union on the fishing road is going to go downhill against the bill, and I guess there's some reason for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u8	A respectable president. The reactor correctly states today, with the permission of a president: ▪ There has been a broken covenant with society. Those who violated it take their power to deal with a systematic problem that politicians need to have the courage and strength to deal with. It sounds to me, after the exchange of words mentioned earlier, that the prime minister does not want to do so. Rather, he conceals himself behind the fact that the resource directive she has submitted gives something, when it directly says in a report by the bill that it does not alter the current situation. Do you really believe that if SFS and the interest groups were against it, the fleet would not have been taken ashore long? What is that? Who's being fooled? We have repeatedly provided a bill of temporary seafaring sources to stop this permanence in the fishing road. What, though, have the administrative groups done repeatedly in connection with the mackerel or other prime products? They have repeatedly refused, or they have put the matter to sleep. What about the bill on translucency in the fishing road? It's not part of the program, it's not to be discussed. One case after another exactly supports what is said in the report with the bill for a constitution: This bill is not supposed to change anything. Though the beautiful word of national property is in there, it is once again being given a false sense of security. It's not going all the way. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What does it take for the government to wake up so that public interests will be taken more seriously?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u9	Mr. President. It's kind of strange to hear a former marine minister come up here and talk like nothing's been done at my time in the government. I think my ex-fiancé. A seafaring minister may prefer to look to his own time in a government, whether within an independent class or by an independent tribe. Because what have we been doing to make things more normal? Yeah, I went over it earlier. Law changes that I plan to follow in a special discussion that is important; protection of informants, new information laws, protection against conflicting interests. I don't remember that in the time of the former minister who comes up here talking about the fact that there's nothing to be done, there's something special about this place. All of these are matters that are about how to protect the interests of the public. I've made it clear what I think this resource directive is all about, that I think it's important that it's about all the resources in the country, and that's a very clear principle. Hv. Congress officials can try to turn them out the way they want and pretend that I am thereby being classed with the big deed. But everyone who's paying attention to the fact that this language doesn't hold any conclusions. I myself was a member of that government, and I recommended that it be for a temporary release. It would have been better if you hadn't. Parliaments who then spoke at the top of that bill would have had another lawsuit. At that time, temporary approval was proposed, and the bill could not be passed at the General Assembly. On the other hand, a special fishing fee, which was a very important step forward, was installed. I think that we should approach this particular project so that we really look at what we can do to create an increased agreement on the marine waters of the country and ensure that the basics that are so important in resource efficiency are so important, i.e. that these sources are never given to anyone for a possession or permanently, how we then guarantee it in the legislation, and what methods are best used to achieve success. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u10	A respectable president. The prime minister runs around the matter naturally, around the core, from responses like a hot cry of a cat. The prime minister has admitted that she provided a bill in her own time that affected just the timeline. Great. So why not apply it in this government? What is the reason why when I was a fishing minister? All but one group who agreed to look at the time in the fishing road. All but one, and that was the Independence Party. Now, though, the left has become a cow, and how can you expect extra interests to be more than ever when groups of people have suddenly become cowers? They've already put in bills themselves for a time, but they can't do that now. It is one of the richest interests for us Icelanders, for the public interest, that we have the prime minister - and I trust the prime minister who has directed the resource work, the constitution, well over the years - which shows leadership and tells his good colleagues: dear friends. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are now going to establish a time tie so that it is clear that it is the nation whose resource is in the sea. We're creating real national property here, not some empty talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u11	Mr. President. I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that we feel that the Constitution will no longer be silent about resources, and I think there are a lot of factors. A senator agrees on what must be stated in such provisions, that we make certain requirements for the practical application, that the national property is emphasized, that we are looking forward to this not being given to anyone for a permanent possession. I have also made it clear in a clear way, both here in this hearing and also at the meeting of the management committee, that now it is the committee's careful review of the views that are presented and whether they feel that the viewpoints can be emphasized more clearly in this directive. There's nothing on me, for I felt most important that the Council could achieve a solidarity on the law that underscores national property. I think that's the big job.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u12	A respectable president. Now, the hour and the core have revealed that the Samherja's staff were conscious and willing of the Samherja's executives in the field of authors, executives in anti corruption organizations, consigned how to scare witnesses from testifying against them in criminal affairs and going to campaigns against the media both here and the Faeroe Islands. In addition, the Partisans Samherja tried to influence the presidency of the journalists'union and the standard of the independents looking for the highest successors. Minister of pointy seat. Of course, all of this is followed by the discovery of substantial questionable Samherja's business practices in Namibia and other places now under investigation in at least four countries and for the treatment of courts in Namibia. President. V.E.G. A minister phoned Þorsteinn Baldursson, the chief Samherja's owner, to ask how he felt after the famous Show went into the air. The phone call amazed many and needed the minister to explain what he did in the following manner in Kastlight shortly afterward, with the permission of a president: ▪ If the minister of the sea is not concerned if this large company is not to be presented in a way that is naturally thought to be normal, I just feel like a self - righteous thing to press after it is a commitment to society. So I ask with reference to these words: Has the highest. Ministers are concerned about the propaganda and slander campaign that the company has recently hosted against the media, associates and even his close associates at the council? Tells you the highest. Ministers that Samherji maintains the commitment that the company has to the community, or is he going to press after it? Will a minister respond, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u13	A respectable president. I want to make it clear that my first reaction to the so - called Samherja language and the Namibian documents at the time of its arrival was to demand that the company's officers step forward and make theirs clean. It was my first reaction, and I think it is normal in view of the size and importance of this company and has had in Icelandic fishing history. I'm concerned that if there's something abnormal going on, what kind of business is involved in the political rivalry of individual political parties, unions, etc. Of course, individuals are perfectly allowed to do this anywhere and whenever they choose and will. However, if an enterprise makes a firm decision to apply it in such a way, it is not acceptable to most people and it is not acceptable to them. In this way, I can begin to worry. Because if it is becoming foreign to a company that thinks it is an illness, the procedure will begin. Other than that, this case has not been held on my level. As I've mentioned before, including. in an open meeting with a bang. A senator in the fall of 2019, of course, I know a lot of Samhera's staff, and I have nothing but a good thing to say, and I've had best contact with them all along.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u14	A respectable president. I wasn't asking a minister about any English. I was asking about a specific example of interference, of an abnormal intervention between journalists, trade unions, requisitions, the community contracts, as they have been said. I quote back to the highest word. Minister of the ancient Castlight Field where he also said, by permission of the president: ▪ What would be said if a minister of the seafaring business had no idea that this large company that everyone has the nerves, if he did not try to push the failure to respond to the marriage that would be applied to them and were in progress? I wondered, " What shall we say? ' What should we say about a sea emissary who has nothing to say about this huge case because of the screaming of inadequacy? It's under the roof. Ministers are really not wrong with him sitting in this office while Samherming his unprecedented attacks on anyone who dares criticize the progress of the company? Is it not a position to have someone who can't use it, that he can't express himself in any significant way about the progress of the company?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u15	A respectable president. I've studied my qualifications before to handle the affairs of this company, including with a base. paritaprevir Thorhna's Ævarsdóttir Övarsdotir, who is now not very careful with other senators about their morals. This is the first and only senator who has been courted for violating the code of ethics established by the Council itself, the first and only member of Congress who has received it. [[That's wrong.]] So I object that people don't have any sense of their ability to deal with issues that arise, whether they're Samherja or any other company. [[Up front.]] I do so, and I have declared it high and in the hearing at an open meeting of the Committee how I appreciate my every time such cases arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u16	A respectable president. Recently, a report on the ideal pensioner Stefán Ólafsson and Stefán Andri Stefánsson were working together with Edda at the University of Iceland and the trade union Elilinga. The report clearly highlights the effects of a decline in the social security system. Of every 50,000 bucks. An additional income from a pension fund usually receives about 13,370 k. In its share, the state receives taxes, and the total decline is about $336.600. In general, the tax burden of pension workers, especially low - income pensioners, has gone up dramatically during the 1990 -1996 period at which time non-involved pensions were tax-free. The corresponding amount today carries about 50,000 bucks. income tax per month. This tax burden, along with the low share of TR pensions, is not sufficient for the minimum cost of a single pensioner living in the capital area. Reports provide two improved proposals to reduce low - income problems among bio-employers and to improve the function of the pension system. The first is to raise the market for payment from pension funds to 100,000 dollars. a month instead of $25,000. A group of people have provided a bill for that subject, but there is nothing from the government. Why? If we talk about impairment in general, we're talking about the decrease in number one, then there's a two-way chain impairment. There are a decrease in the child-replacement system, in the rent system, in the system on special housing benefits, and in the social reform system that is adding on top of this. As a result, they are sent to poor, poor, and some to the right. As a result, there are 803/4,15% declines in the sum of progress people are supposed to try to survive. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is the decrease in the pension system too high? Would prime minister support 100,000 dollars. Social security cut-offs on pension income?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Now I have to admit that I have not studied the report that he quotes as a plough, but I would like to prove that when we discuss social security, we have a pensioner and a microenergy donor, and that's not exactly the same system because the part of the social security system that was changed for older citizens was changed here by legislation in 2016. As a result, this system became considerably simpler and was significantly reduced in that part of the system, especially to the most money - rich pensioners, and a dollar - priced cut was taken off. So I'll review it, it cost another tens of billions of dollars, maybe about 15 to 16 billion, something like that. It came primarily to the benefit of income - pensioners and women who have relatively little rights in a pension fund. When it comes to seniors, we then increased the income market immediately at the beginning of this term to 100,000 dollars. and then the flexibility was increased in order to coordinate the work of a pensioner with a law of half a pension, apart from social support. As we know, however, these changes in the social security system were not made at ease, as we do at the time. A senator has spoken. Hv. A senator asks: " Is there too much impairment? I think we have had the experience that although they are too heavy, we have been doing a lot of work to reduce the number of impairments. We reduced a crown to the decrease because of our special progress in the process, and we also reduced the gaps between gradations in the microenergy pension system in order to meet the most efficient group among the microenergy donors. On the other hand, I believe that there is a universal review of the development of the staging system in micro-energy pensioners so that we can better support them, especially those with only social security advance, disability pension. [[The president calls.]] We need to secure the position of that group and certainly reduce the degree of impairment. [[The president calls.]] But it calls for this overall view of the status of micro-organization workers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u18	A respectable president. He's out of school. I have to disagree completely with the highest. Prime Minister because the facts speak for themselves. Me with the numbers. I got an answer from the Department of Social Affairs on the impairments today. Then I have a comparison of impairments that occurred in 2017. During that time, the increase is 20 billion, total impairment from 47 billion to 67.5 billion. When I'm at the highest. The president says that a penny in return to the loss of the cent for micropair is wrong. Because of its chain reaction, it doesn't work. It doesn't come back to them, and I've got a lot of scarred numbers. Pensions in the social security system, 18 billion losses, employment revenues, 5 billion today, and pension funds, 11.2 billion in the decrease. There's a huge increase in micro-organism and also in the whole system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u19	Mr. President. Maybe it's time. A senator at that point when he speaks on the other hand about disability and the rest of the system, that we need to recognize that these are not comparable systems, either for a pensioner or for a microenergy donor, because changes in the system were made in the case of pensioners. Nor is it possible to discuss the terms of these groups as if they were completely comparable. They just aren't. The average status of older citizens is much better because there are many who have little debt or no debt, and pension rights in the pension system are increasing each year. It doesn't change that there are groups of older citizens who need to be better met and we've been doing it with an additional social support, apart from the fact that a group of members of the Department of Social Affairs is now completing work on a global review of the system. When it comes to microenergy pensioners, all I believe is that. A senator would agree that it needs this overall analysis of the system's alimony database. Sadly, in fact, no conclusion was reached in that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u20	A respectable president. I'd like to bring up the position of those who are involved in research at the potential airport in the Washinghaun with regard to the impact of a natural disaster in Gedingad sala on that job. Not long ago. The minister discussed these matters at the Senate Hall with the senator Trausti Friðbertsson. There was something else in the reply that surprised me, with reference to the agreement as the highest. A minister made with mayor of November 28, 2018, the research on the construction of a new airport in the Basshaun, which was then in February 2020, with a contribution of 200 million for research. I understood that at the top answers. A minister in last week's discussion, rather than the last one, has found that there is a routine in this despite the shocks that we see today. It is hardly surprising to say that in the latest Icelandic professional newsletter, FIA, a thistle is from the head of the FIA Security Committee, which says, with the permission of presidents: The government responsible for a realistic flight policy must reexamine the ideas of building a new airport in this area. - With the reference to Whalesun. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it really so that these tests are being done and costed? While these are not the largest figures in this environment, there is a Sidonian figure in the fact that these funds are now being thrown away, of course, in a position that has come up in the area that there will be no airport for a long time. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if there is no reason to stop this work. It is not acceptable for us to place money on unnecessary terms, and although this has been agreed on in November 2019, the situation has changed completely. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he does not consider it wise to put a dot on this so that further damage will not occur and will risk these studies at the potential airport level in the Bassau. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, which provides good reason to put the matter in proper perspective. The government is not preparing for development on a new airport in the Washasse. However, reports from years past have pointed out the best available option, which would likely have to be taken from Reykjavík's airport. We have agreed that after a specific study, the conclusion - which, of course, I cannot give in advance. The first phase of action was to take for at least two years, followed by further studies of weather, flying ability, on water protection factors, the introduction of the Southnes and other factors, but primarily a new earth - wide risk assessment. This is the first stage of these studies. I have simply said, " Isn't it wise to get that risk assessment? ' Weather readings and other factors as well as risk factors had been concluded with the Weather Service. It'll probably be ready for New Year's Eve if there's no delay in it because of other experts in the Weather Service dealing with seismites right in the Southnes, in this area. Is it not wise to get that risk assessment, then? A senator, before we make decisions alone that we think are reasonable, is it not wise to start building an airport in an area that may occur in the next few decades? [[The president calls.]] Is it not wise to get the risk assessment? That's what I mentioned in my answer to whyNjáll Friðbertsson That I think it's wise. [[The president calls.]] Then we can make a decision in an enlightened way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but it must be expressed with great disappointment. To answer the question about being reasonable, it certainly is not. It is only necessary to turn on the TV to realize that the risk assessment is developing in a very decisive way in this case. I'm very worried about that. A minister immediately flaunts possible delays to this conclusion because at the same time he or she is being separated from Reykjavík. His current conditions continue to worsen, making him aim to see; inadequacy. So there is no way to make it a joke whether it is wise to see if the risk assessment will not be any way in which it appears on TV every day that it is going to turn up. At the same time, city planning authorities are destroying the city's Reykjavíkurvey airport, the Waterstain airport, where the flight is to be just as good or as better an airport. That airport is not in Hagzall. Everyone is facing it. [[The president calls.]] It just doesn't make sense. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he stop these tests so that the watermy state can be controlled today or tomorrow? [[The president calls.]] That is the only real question that needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u23	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator and I stand 100 percent on the fact that Reykjavík's airport will remain unchanged and his chances of serving what he is to serve will not be reduced until another new and a better place for an airport is found, if found. [[Up front.]] If it isn't, then the city council would still be in the same spot as the city council. I have also signed a pact, and I intend to keep it. And unlike what. I trust a senator to wait for a few months for a new risk assessment from our leading experts before making a decision that seems obvious to me. However, unlike the senator, who believes that it is best to control by saying one thing today and another tomorrow, I find it more reasonable to get an end of the matter through risk assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u24	President. Why is trust important, and why is trust important? The report of a growing political and administrative trust group explains why trust is important, which needs to be considered in this discussion. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ It seems to be a very common view or experience - especially the legislator - that have the role of molding society's policies and guidelines for the future will not be likely to handle it properly and fully. They are unable to ensure equal opportunities for people, and can be expected that certain stakeholders will have priorities, decisions based on non-political interests, and that political and administrative leaders are more interested in defending such systems than in changing them to the interests of the public and the community. Distrust in the government expresses itself in the belief that the State will not use power in the public. Rather, it puts certain interests ahead of others. Whether it is true or not, it is an enormously serious problem - and of course it is even more serious if it is true. The work group's report briefly deals with the consequences of mistrust, with permission of the president: Such confidence can have dramatic consequences. It can be seen in the lack of trust in government policies and may not be taken seriously. It can also cause a lack of respect for laws and rules. If the popular opinion is that rules are often put on for the sake of special interest, and the experience that decision - making matters are not legalized is a permanent part of the city's attitude toward the government, governments and citizens are under attack. A picture of the distrust of rulers these days is seen in a new wave #metoo. Many feel that the system has failed them. People, therefore, look for ways to find justice; through media; or by social media. I have heard, though, some members of the council express concern about this trend, but at the same time, I have not heard them express concern over the reasons for their distrust. Trust in the Council has never been very high. For the 2008 economic collapse, it was found to be around 30,40%, fall to 13%, and is now measuring 34% in Gallup's national pulse or similar to that of a crash. The question that this raises is obvious: Is it acceptable confidence in the Generals that one in three people believes that the elected representatives are generally using government for the sake of public and community? I don't think so be it and would like to see this turn upside down, that at least two out of three people had confidence in the government that they were working on the public interest rather than on special interests. I don't know if that's a realistic goal, especially in the political bitch that's being practiced today, on top of information and false news, in politics that is prone to exaggerate magnificently or even lying to its voters. Is it only natural that such politics deserve distrust? Who, though, is to be believed in our work environment of distrust? That's why I'm asking the highest. What are the most important challenges facing the future in order to build confidence in politics? The paradox is obvious: Why should we believe the answer? Why should one word of what the senators and ministers say be believed? Here we are seen in the cycle of distrust, a vicious circle that feeds on political rulers, decision - making decisions across laws and regulations, and the category of social security that prevents responsibility and control by misuse of power. You see, in these days we are witnessing how a reputation is tried by exploiting mutual resources into immoral acts. The work was publicized in the PR Namibia group and directly linked to the largest of Iceland's productions, Samherja. The work was also publicized in the magazine presentation of the hour, Hicks, Al Jazeera, and The Namiban a year and a half ago. The problem is a systematic problem that regularly appeared to us in individual moral values, such as the Samaritan case, the National Court case, reprisals, Ásmundal, the Ministry General's Council, the Corderbar, the Glitani papers, the Panama Documents, and a lot of other special matters. On one occasion, a minister said that she did not agree with her view to making a systematic problem in unique moral matters. Then I must ask a minister: What should be done in these unique opinions that are just the reflection of the problem? While the problem is systematic, governments do not achieve success because mistrust damages government action. I know it's the highest. Minister wants to succeed. The problem is, as long as we tape the same ride, we won't make it. Therefore, I repeat: What are the most important challenges we will face in order to strengthen political trust? At any rate, the obvious first step is to keep the independence party from power, since it is the source of nearly all these unique moral issues. But what's the answer? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up these large, systematic issues. That's why I say, as long as we're in the same print by talking about something special, we're not gonna make it, because we need a system change to get real results. That is why I set down a group at the beginning of this terms to investigate in general what aspects would affect the trust that the common people have for an elected representative and representative of the European Commission. It's a complicated issue, because it's not a popular contest, it's about the trust of the infrastructure and the trust of the foundation in our society. This group returned a report in which he proposed measures that are divided into eight main areas and 25 individual suggestions. I found this to be a good, thought - provoking suggestion. And although this journey may have taken longer, including some, to the extent that it took longer than that. Because of a pandemic and other factors, it can be said that a quick look at these suggestions went well. Government targets have been met, at least in four of the eight areas in which the work group was proposed and covers three prime points per law approved at the General Assembly: First of all, the bill for the legislation on the change of information law, which now includes legislation and judicious authority, not just the European Commission, which is a matter that we have discussed for a long time. System change that brings progress. Legal criteria were set up for the pay period of the decision-making committee on information matters and established the role of advisers on public information rights. Defenses against interest conflict, another system change that will get us along and meet proposals for integrated protocols on interest registration. This is the first law of its kind here on the land. I know that we will learn a number of lessons from how this adjustment is being introduced. But what is the purpose other than to create trust and to ensure that the highest executives of the European Commission carry out their work in behalf of the public faithfully? I also know that there will be a reason to reconsider this when there is some experience with the project. So I think it is very important to remember that when we make a law, it is not finished. Rather, it matters how the law is conducted and what the results are. There is also the suggestions offered by a service group that are related to stakeholders, the staff of top officials, after they give up their work and government dealings with stakeholders. It is important, too, to observe their laws very closely. Third law is the protection of informants. A special total law on the subject went into effect on January 1, and I am very pleased with that system change. OECD has now given its review, OECD work group on the defense of payoffs, and in particular credit for these legislation in the United States. But again, it's very important that we carefully observe the procedures of the law and that they are properly introduced. Hence, the succeeding steps have been taken. Preparation is started in various fields, including As regards a review of ethical principles in which a review is planned among the staff of the Board of Directors on such rules and will try to promote a specific procedure for consultation with those who are to be subject to that protocol. Work on a reexamination of ethical principles is then entrusted with the task of furthering education and criticizing moral discussions. We are also involved in further education on ethics and interest issues, public information rights and the freedom of expression by public employees. What is the goal? Yes, to promote a critical discussion of morality and professionalism in public employment. This is part of the system change to become. It has been identified by the HI Institute of Moralology, and this has been linked to it as early as possible. A senator here mentioned that the government should establish a clear policy for democratic consultations, i.e. that it is clear how decisions are made, who have been called to consult, and it is a special obligation for the government to bring in more people to their attention. I mention in the context of a reasoning survey conducted here in November 2018 about the change in constitution. I hear that many senators do not necessarily agree with the suggestions that came out of the process of consultation, which was truly a consultation course with the public in the country. I think we should use this methodology a lot more often. However, we also need to ask ourselves: " Are members of the Parliament willing to follow the results of such a discussion? This can lead to both hopes of doing so. Of course, members of Congress are primarily bound by their convictions. What I'm trying to say here is that it's not hard work, it's slow and biting, and it matters -- why. A senator said that trust in the Council was increasing, now 34%. The Parliament covers the fourth floor of the institutions measured in this survey. But it does not change that trust has increased by 16 percentage points in two years, i.e. about half, so it may be quite effective. But, of course, it is not acceptable that the Council takes fourth place when we speak of trust. Of course, it can depend on fanciful rhythms, but it is my firm belief that the action we have taken has fallen for all to increase that trust. I come to international institutions and our dealings with them in this work here at the end of my discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u26	President. Søren Kierkegaard once said that if you drink in your skin for a desire to change the world, you should start with something intimate; yourself. I think it might be good for all of us who are in politics to think in this way when we contemplate a loss of confidence, which is now only on the way back, in politics, and in such ways. General. In many areas, a pot is broken. I think, for example. a fine way to increase political trust is to legalize politicians. We have seen and witnessed that many ministers in various governments have repeatedly violated equality laws, organizational laws, and the protection laws. We have an example of Reykjavíkurburg breaking the law of equality, of flags, and of the law of official decrees repeatedly. This may be a task to do for us, who are political, simply following the law. It is also good for us to think that the political parties that agencies do things with the law and good habits, e.g. for accounting accounts and how keeping of the classes is carried out. When we think back and forth this example, I think that the words I started with, Sørens Kierkegaard's, that the person who burns in the skin of changing the world should begin with something closer, for himself, not too good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u27	A respectable president. I think it's possible to be happy that we're here to talk about trust in politics and government. That's an important discussion. But I have to admit, I think it's a simple thing to say. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who spoke here on the other hand, saying that the solution to all of this was to keep the Independence Party out of control. It's a manta that can be heard from Pirata's camp. I wondered: " What message is this sending to the people? The group that has received most votes in elections and in several rural governments for the country and for the people who choose this category, is it just corrupt?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u28	Don't put words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u29	No, I'm not putting words in your mouth, boy. Senator. But this mantra, speaking in such a way that if the Independence Party wasn't in control, it's that I'm talking it into the nation that here is a real and difficult corruption. [[Up front.]] We're here to attack it, but we're supposed to approach it on the right terms, okay? Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u30	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u31	A respectable president. In many lands corruption in politics is a serious problem. I had the opportunity to conduct a campaign service in White Russia where I witnessed an election fraud. I witnessed the destruction of the nation's will. We've just heard of how the government of White Russia is where planes are put and journalists are dragged out to imprison them. It's serious, indeed. I'm not saying that everything in this country is the finest thing we have to worry about, but we're not in the same place as these nations. And when Icelandic senators go abroad and speak in such a way that there are great corruption problems, they tend to promote even more the image that is not present, despite all, a respectable president, we live here in a good society that respects democracy and part of that democracy is that voters have chosen the Independence Party to rule. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u32	A respectable president. Before a collapse, the trust of voters at the council and the government was measured by the largest but by the least possible failure. Either way, too much trust for collapse and too little confidence after collapse. It has such a gesture, this trust, as normal as it is, but it is still dangerously low. What else is trust? It is the feeling that there is reason to believe that a person, an institution, or a political group will keep their word, not be controlled by other motives, a work in good faith. In view of the political tradition of breaking free from elections after many commitments before elections, it cannot be said that voters will have good reason to trust Icelandic politicians or Icelandic political systems in particular. Recently, Mr. President, we have received valuable insight into our country's power system. We have seen men who have reached indiscriminate wealth and have caused access to the nation's resources. We have seen the attitude of these men toward the surveillance agencies in the public service, the Federal Bank and the Free Media, and we have seen how they attack individuals and undermine institutions. The people of the land deserve governments who have their noses on such forces and protect the public's interests from them. Sadly, there is little to indicate that there is a basis for confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u33	V.E.G. President. According to measurements, about 80% of the nation's health systems trust in the police, but about 34% trust the Agency, twice as many as they trust, e.g. City of Reykjavík. Here we, 63 individuals, and all of the council members are responsible, both greater and less. Access to information and transparency is here key to access, like coordinators. paritaprevir And Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said, From the circle of distrust. I'd like to say, after taking up the General Assembly as a deputy since 2013, that we need to strengthen ourselves to disagree but to maintain a healthy friendship. It's subsided. I miss the eight years I've been here. Distrust creates political instability. Here, members of this public assembly sometimes speak as if everything is cold. This is not so, although we certainly belong and need to do much better in some matters. You're absolutely right. Trust must work, and it takes time. I think with Katrín's Jakobsdóttir as prime minister, foreman, we are on the right track. In Iceland, there is political stability. It means a lot. It undermines good government if we do not look at politics and government. Let's do better. Let's get up with dignity. The vision here will be given as we stand in this public discourse and become published to the nation. We're dealing with culture and appearance, not just a system, but can the politicians lead to distrust? We need to think inwardly, not just the reaction of others in our community to our conduct, elected representatives, and officials. We ourselves are our own subjects and resources. A self - examination is beneficial for each individual. [[The president calls.]] According to a progress report on the subject, governments need to define and set their own goals on public integrity. [[The president calls.]] We need to eliminate any suspicions of treachery and dishonesty. It depends on us. If it doesn't start here, it won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u34	Mr. President. The media state is a reflection of democracy's status in each community, and a powerful democracy is one of the strongest weapons against corruption in every community. So, what's the state of the press in Iceland? It was recently reported in another year that we broke down the magazine list without bordering the world's press freedoms and that we have become huge submerges of other colonies, communities that we would like to compare with and rightly so. The review specifically shows that in recent years communication between the media and politicians has worsened and is also mentioned the Samherja documents and the response to this media coverage in Iceland. During this time, with good reason to be concerned about the state of the media in Iceland, reports are coming from the efforts of the relief teams of the developers and other critics to attack people responsible for securing transparency and information flows in the discussion of Icelandic society. One source of this rage is the discussion of the Samaritan language. Following the fall of 2019 C.E., the government set up an action list that would lead to increased trust in Icelandic employment. How's that list of operations? You see, we're still waiting, including... Following the assessment of the commercial fishing practices of the European Union and its trade on fish markets in developing countries. It's important to get answers. It's important that we get weapons in warfare with the guerrillas of the developers. During our restoration, we have made adjustments in order to work our hands out in this struggle. We've suggested that the largest stock market outputs be recorded in order to become public, retailed, and more clearly distributed, the maximum limit of the property of linked partners in the stock department. We have also waited for more than five months now, since a High Commissioner of the Sea Elite provided a report on the property of these Icelandic industry regardless of the way in which seawater is used. [[The president calls.]] Where are the steps of these giants, whose wealth is based on Iceland's national resources? [[The president calls.]] Where do they go in Icelandic society, in our professional life? [[The president calls.]] The biggest change we will then need to achieve is the change in resource regulations in a constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u35	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u36	A respectable president. Conspiracy in politics. It is fundamental in democracies that the public trust organizations that have official authority. In this regard, it is important not only to ensure public trust in institutions but also to democratically elected representatives. During the past decade, public trust in democratic elected representatives has been at a minimum in history. The public lost all trust in the collapse of the bank. Prior to collapse, public trust in the General Assembly was regularly measured around 40 to50%, but since then it has been reported at 34%. Happily, the General has responded to and made adjustments in the rules of political and elected representatives, and it is positive that the public has an increased perspective on political affairs and that there are clear criteria for contributions to political organizations. It may not be surprising, though, that when it comes to trust in the Generals, the public is still ambiguous. I think, for example. In view of the number of times we clearly disregard the instructions given by 69 C.E., we have little confidence in the pensioners who pay for social security. Act on social security. Instead of allowing the ideal pensioner to follow his salary development, ministers find a number of ways to subtract updates and also separate the pay limits from the update. A clear example is the comparison of annual growths in the annual election with the pension of social security. People simply get the impression that there are rules that apply to rulers other than people. If we who sit in this room want to regain the confidence of the common people, we need to answer when they make clear demands. There is no trust, and it does not show trust and will not stay as long as we say a hundred thousand dollars. From a pension fund, there's only 26,740 bucks left. In the pocket, but the rest go to pieces and taxes. Likewise, when we turn the situation upside down completely, we do not have confidence, and those who make the money and receive 80% and 20% of the money earn it. I'll find out in the second talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u37	A respectable president. In the National Declaration of Transparancy International, due to the incorrigibly unsurpassing and unsurpassed response of the Samherja officers, so-called Partisans, it is stated, by permission of Presidents: It is no longer possible for governments to escape the political and systematic environment that tolerate such conduct for years. Either they are with the public in the fight against corruption or, with silence, inactivity, inactivity, and slowness in establishing modern corruption between government and business life. Governments can no longer look away. I take my heart to this statement, Mr. President. The efficiency of non-substantial specialities is amazing. The breach of action following the Namib language is awesome. Of the seven measures that the government claimed to take in the wake of this huge corrupt world, one might have become a reality. There was no such thing as of the action to be taken by a sea espionage minister and may not be surprised at his answers to my inquiry in the earlier unsupervised inquiry. The minister is obviously not going to do anything, what should he have done to be an act of nonsense incapacity for all procedures related to this partner? So I ask the highest. Prime Minister, who claims to build confidence in politics, the General and the administrative department: She still trusts the highest government. a seaman minister to take that office? Is it justified that he is in that position while this matter is ostentatious to the community? Is it possible to increase confidence in politics to have this marine emissary seated in the government of the highest government? Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u38	A respectable president. Trust is essential, so healthy society thrives, and a society without trust is weak and exacting democracy and social responsibility. In the countries around us, there is growing concern over the dwindling confidence in government and power institutions. There are extremes, and false news has its place. Unnamed propaganda is one of its manifestations, and for the General, it is now a matter that deals with these factors. In Iceland, there is a great deal of confidence in society and its institutions. It tells me we're in a healthy community and we're working hard to build a solid order between government and country's public. The above is well remembered when confidence broke out in the wake of the collapse of the public and the government, and it is a joy to rejoice that trust in the Council has increased very much over the past few years by the careful action of the Generals and now under the Supreme Court. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. But that is what has been done, new information laws, and registration of stakeholders, the protection of informants, and the registration of real owners, to name something. It has been the policy of this government to build public confidence in politics, and I believe it has succeeded. It must always be on guard and face the challenges of the future. Therefore, it will be an ongoing task of the government to ensure honest, beneficial government administration and must never be put to sleep on guard. I believe it is the project that we will work on here at the Council, still. All talk here about the United States is one of the things that make us think about how a community we want to build. [[The president calls.]] And what has been said about Samaria is most reprehensible, so that a word of mild words is spoken.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u39	Mr. President. We're talking about trust in politics and politics. Of course, the most important thing about this relationship is that politicians live up to the policy they put forth, especially what they put first. I'm not talking about minor issues and that political leaders choose to compromise in a government business. The most famous example of this is 180° turn left green after elections in 2009, when, in one night, they face a declared policy and in complete opposition to the vast majority of their voters, turned from being hard against the European Union to apply for involvement in the European Union. Political trust is also built up by the political authorities explaining things that they do to people in human languages. It would thus increase political trust if it were the highest. A health minister could explain to us why waiting for replacement operations is rather common in the fields of predators, instead of having the operation done in a much less expensive country. It would also increase political trust if the highest. A social minister could admit that his bill on the affairs of immigrants was causing a huge increase in the cost of a government fund instead of saying otherwise. It would no doubt increase political trust if it were the highest. A minister of justice could explain to people what governments are actually doing on the scene of law enforcement in order to stem the rise of organized crime. It would be good for trust if it were the highest. A health minister might explain why it is better to send a local cervical sample, both increasing the risk of failure and the cost of doing the research within the country. Finally, top - ranking political trust would clearly increase. A health minister could explain to all the people why she puts up a bill that clearly eliminates the underlying drug problem rather than further the prevention and treatment efforts that are acceptable to control the drug problem. [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, explanations like these would be best to increase confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u40	V.E.G. President. I am grateful for this discussion, even though I am amazed at who is using a word - of - law. But if there's so little confidence in the Council and the Government we're the guilty ourselves, obviously. And why have we reduced trust and credibility? That's because we're always here in the openings, like just now in this discussion, instead of the materialistic and critical discussion. We speak all the way down, not for some political ideologies. Everything's spoken down. It is buried almost every day under the administration of this body hall. Courts and administration are not permitted to do their jobs. No, it's because we're here all the time. In this way trust and respect for politics and politics are reduced, so we need to take over ourselves. The way we act, the way we dress, the way we act. Serious criticism can be harsh, but we cannot control it, it should always be false to anyone other than us to undermine politics. We're geniuses in it, and we've been geniuses in it for quite a while, tops. Mr. President, so we need to step up. We ourselves. No one else does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u41	Mr. President. It is remarkable to be here at the end of a chosen period and to be in that situation despite the words of a government contract on political and governmental trust, I feel a little as if little happened and that the government has actually taken steps again when it comes to trust in politics. However, it should be held that there were laws for the protection of informers, laws for defense against conflicting interests, and so forth. Sadly, though, the message, Mr. President, comes from the nation's highest executives, has not resulted in greater confidence in politics. When the bank manager expresses himself about corruption in Icelandic society, the prime minister puts it in the office of journalists for not asking what the bank manager meant, despite the fact that we are all concerned. When members of the Commission and Control Committee are requested to conduct an investigation in relation to the highest level. High - power managers, now reported in wars against men, businesses, media, politicians, and their families, use members of the commission to stop such an investigation. When the courts pass judgment that the Minister of Justice has violated a law against the order of special judges of the Lands Court, a special guard of the Minister here at the Senate and that the minister's office in the government is more important than the defense of the court's independence. Mr. President. During these days, there is a war that is becoming increasingly manifest each day; wars against the common people, wars against the media, artists, politicians, and their families. A man in the government is on the way, and the warlord's choice of a new government man before all of us, and prime minister wants journalists to ask bank managers what he means when discussing corruption in interviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, which now seems to take place in some parts of the world. During 2018, a group of Prime Ministers gathered important information on factors that affect trust and how to work progressively to increase confidence in politics and government. It is important to be able to draw knowledge and tips to neighboring countries and international organizations and institutions. That knowledge, however, will benefit us best if we cooperate with it and make it ours, our instruments, and the channel of knowledge for our reality. As a result, I want to focus on the importance of ongoing education, but four of the 25 steps required to be taken are about the growth of the Theocratic Ministry School, which highlights staff education, education, and criticism. However, I feel little about how this ongoing education project has been accomplished. I know, though, that something has been done, and I want to emphasize it to the highest level. The prime minister of modern education is underappreciated with tools to change and improve culture and supports all the other measures. No matter what laws or rules we put in, people who are not trained to follow them and to understand the thoughts behind them do not produce the desired results. The Board of Directors needs to be strong, close to the regular training of every employee in the public health field, but more closely training to follow the rules of the administration and to ensure the skill and professionality of the work that people do on a daily basis, because, after all, trust is built first and lastly, how to achieve the solution to everyday projects, whether they are employed in the administrative capacity or here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u43	Mr. President. I'm gonna start with what I didn't do earlier, and thanks for this discussion. I'm going to express my hope that it will have an effect. I am such an optimist. Then I'm going to say what I said at the beginning of my first speech: the situation in the media is reflected in the situation of democracy in every community. A powerful democracy is one of the most powerful weapons we have against corruption in society. It's not much more complicated. What we're doing here is that we have a flimsy media bill that will probably be taken care of today, a bill that has been popular in the administration of the government for four years. We live in an unregistered resource directive that will or will not be returned to the General Assembly before the end of this terms. What we have is the silence of the government on a multi-item report on the conduct and business practices of our companies in business and management of resources in developing countries. What we have is the silence of the government on the request of the Generals' report, a multitude, on the involvement of industrialized giants in Icelandic society, not only in the seas but in Icelandic commercial life, in Icelandic society, including the media. And what is the situation facing us? The situation here is that the guerrilla warfare of counterfeiters, which defends its special interests against the media, and the howling silence of the government. This is what we're dealing with. [[The president calls.]] This is what we live in right now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u44	A respectable president. I want to say thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for this discussion. Over time, the nation has called for a resource directive to be placed in the constitution. In the fall of 2012, the voters wanted a national resource directive. Nine years have passed since then. We owe it to the nation of natural resources, and it is clear that they will not trust us until we fulfill that promise. We have a crazy system called Social Security System, a system that no one trusts, the twitting order that makes a lot of people live, not just in poverty, but in desperate condition, and these people are still waiting for justice. It's still waiting. What Is Justice? Yes, if it gets a hundred thousand bucks. From a pension fund, that's 26,740 k. to a maximum in your pocket. We're always talking about trust, but at the same time we're asking for trust here, we'll have a thousand children waiting for various actions, and we don't even know how many of them wait on a waiting list to get to the right waiting list. This is a form of pure violence for which we should be ashamed. If we want to trust, we should make sure once and for all that those who need medical attention do not have enough money for food for more than one day or one week a month, that they do not have to wait for months, years, even tens of years, with the four armed men who maintain the system and bring an even greater degree of impairment. As noted earlier, there is an even greater failure rate in the four years of more than 20 billion declines. It's just a check for poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u45	President. So I'll start with what? And to the men of Bruthi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Braun the son of Níelsson. Here is a financial criticism, but not an appeal, since from the Independence Party, all moral issues are involved. I think that's a good reason to keep authority from that category. This is a clear solution to the obvious problem, a simple bean count. V.E.G. Prime Minister. Rather than tackle the system problem, these unique facts show us that while we are not being successful with them, it is obvious that we have not managed to solve the systemized problem. We need to do both. Sometimes governments have to ask if their actions meet expectations and requirements, and I wondered where that question is and who was asked because we only cooperate with the people we want to trust by listening. So my final question is: Has the prime minister asked the people in the country what is needed to gain their trust? It is important that actions are not just a checklist that needs to be filled in. It's important that it works. Here I referred to a previous reasoning survey by the Prime Minister Jón Ólafsson, who was the chairman of the committee's committee of increased trust in governments and governments and was responsible for organizing the arguments among others. There he says, about the bill for a change in constitution: ▪ In the current framework of the Board of Management Board, almost no attempt is made to link proposals, arguments, and explanations to the public council, references to its unique features are random, and in a single place misleading. No systematic attempt is made to build on the consultations where its results are in accordance with the root series, and no attempt is made to explain the variation when the board is gone other than the agreement indicates that the public is supporting. Prime Minister, President: This is an effort to make for the public and the community, not for certain interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u46	Mr. President. What Makes Confidence? Moods e.g. how to discuss matters objectively? Hv. A senator concludes with Jón Ólafsson's review, and I think it would be very interesting to find out what he has to say after it entered the council, for it changed considerably from the fact that it was presented in a formality. Is it not a matter of business discussion to handle matters accurately? Hv. A senator well knows that the situation changed greatly, including based on the results of a reasoning survey. I'm going to review some of the facts about the system changes that have been proposed, including Because I know what to do. The advocate is interested in what international institutions have to say on the subject in Iceland. I would like to remind you that in GRECO's follow-up report, which is a closely linked member of the European Parliament on corruption, their report has regularly arrived here - it is pointed out that of the nine proposals in the report that they made 2018 that concern the highest executive executives of the European Commission, Iceland is considered to have created four parts, four of which are considered unproved. In terms of things that haven't gone fast enough, as if for the sake of the ongoing education I came to see in my previous language, it hasn't gone as fast as I would have wanted to. for a pandemic. I also named OECD, who notices exactly the physical changes we have made in these matters and considers them an important step in progress. What are the challenges? Of course, these laws are being observed. Because there are some of them. Congress has discussed the situation of the media, I believe that the review of the media legislation is timely based on the legal status of journalists, technological changes, and so forth. We all know that when the media bill was approved in 2011 - or 2012, it was not? [[The president calls.]] I was the one who presented it - a very important theme of the steps to improve the legal status of journalists. [[The president calls.]] But I think there's a good reason to re-examine them. Finally, Mr. President, for the Council as one of the parties, it is important that we all also examine the nature of our conduct and whether it is a failure to increase confidence in the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u47	A respectable president. This vote is historical, since it is taking long - awaited steps. The goal of the law is to promote private media, increase press freedom, and strengthen the position of the media to carry out their democratic roles. A respectable president. This vote is long, since the bill is based on the proposal of a group appointed in 2016. It is happy that this stage has reached even though it may be the first of many people to promote the Icelandic media. The model is norse. Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden provide direct and indirect national grants to the media. A respectable president. We need to monitor the development of the next few years and interrupt if necessary to improve the environment of the media in Iceland. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u48	A respectable president. The 2nd. and I said, "This is a matter of tradition. And I'm still convinced that this is a matter of tradition. It's called private media. Now it will be a private media project on government grants. State strength. The media owned by rich people receives as much as 100 million. At the same time, I'm e - mailing people asking me how to prepare for a meal after the first week of the month. This sucks. I say no--and more determined then I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u49	A respectable president. We will now see an example of how the media and their activities are being pursued, but the fourth media are often called. They're one of the most important support we have in our democratic society. How important it is that we see a healthy, vigorous media environment here! In recent years, attendance has been a blow, and there is no need to go out in its reasons. However, there is good reason to strengthen this environment and strengthen the environment of the media. So we in the United States support this case. We would have known that the council had agreed to the changes we had made in order to have the strength lower so that they would be useful to others and would be more useful to the media than most of the council did not see, and the events went on. Nevertheless, I feel that this is a progress, and we will support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u50	A respectable president. This is a temporary arrangement that will run its course at the end of the next year. I trust that for the time, one of the two governments that are now seated or the one that takes over in the autumn benefits will correct the obvious lies found in the Icelandic media market right now. With confidence in it, I support this bill. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u51	Mr. President. The middle class is a sincere fan of free media and discussion based on honesty and objectiveness. We have a long experience in the absence of the media territory. That is why this is a matter, to the state of a part of the free media, of bad luck. It would have been better to have general action, taxable, e.g. I'm not talking about taxing foreign distribution agencies now, along with the state radio, the main obstacle to the free media street in Iceland. According to that, we also hear that independence is being beaten into obedience. We heard an example of this earlier on this beautiful journey of the bill through the council. We don't trust ourselves to support this bill. We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u52	A respectable president. It would be a wish if we could support this case. I'm afraid not. The smaller part here proposed a change proposal that reflects a bit of the problem that is that we, the lawgiver, the politicians, need to consider what media we want to give money. That is not necessarily an irreprehensible question. The problem with the media is enormous. The media are important enough, and it's obvious enough that I don't have to talk about that many words. But he immediately reflects on the problem that we face here at the General Assembly, using this method. If the proposal had been submitted, we would have no doubt supported the matter, but in view of the foregoing and the expected issues, we do not trust to support the situation at this time. Finally, I'd like to remind you that there are other ideas that have come up to back up on private media. There are more than one, and there are more than two. They have been observed. There's no time here, or really reason to discuss it further, but I just want to remind you that this is not the only way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u53	A respectable president. This government has had four years to solve the problems we all know it is urgent and big for four years without setting up any solutions. The objective of this bill is good, but the way it is chosen is far from being missed. There is no way in this regard to the situation that we see today. It's not being handled by foreign groups, it's not being taken into the upper position of VOLV. Not one step is taken to ensure the healthy, normal environment of the media. To tell you the truth, the government is on this matter to show its inadequacy. It is not enough to use government grants in the way this is done, and it is actually designed to create an unhealthy environment rather than an environment. So despite the good aim, the path selected is that restoration cannot be of support for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u54	A respectable president. As mentioned in the discussion, we warned about the matter, me and what. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. In spite of this, we feel that, according to both the reviews received by the General and Education Committee, and the guests and the members of the Committee there, these changes have to be made, i.e. ... withthecounsels under here. In the meantime, we can review what needs to be done, the tax environment and other factors that have been attributed here, both for material and for such. It has also been difficult for the fourth power to maintain criticism and to monitor us, including the following: Here, so I believe this is an essential operation. She's not necessarily exactly like us, each one of us, would have liked to have her. Nevertheless, this is support for the current year of management and the year before which I believe it is necessary. [[The president calls.]] Of course, I trust that either the current government will succeed in finishing this in the remaining months or in the months that a new government will take up the case and take care of the media's environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u55	President. This bill is nothing more than a subsidence of the insurmountable balance of stakeholders in their language data. This is not the strength to promote the media. There are 400 million who go primarily to lawsuits who have no interest in democratic reporting except when it comes to them. I'm not paying my vote to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u56	A respectable president. The idea of this legal bill was to pass the interest of the individual media in an unjust competition with the State Media Network. It has not been successful. On the contrary, it is added to the injustice of the media market. Private media are made up of mediums, taking steps in that direction, but not in any way, however, the role and operation of the Kingdom News that would have had to be done. I don't support this bill. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u57	Mr. President. This is a case that has long been troubled by the council, has been sent back to the Ministry, and has not changed. Actually, things have changed this time. It's a good thing to think of more of it. It's a good thing to do. The committee has made improvements in this case, and they also appear. magazines in committees and adjustments to the matter. So I will support the adjustment. The whole case, however, is still defective, and for example, comments and warnings from an tax investigator who, in my opinion, had to respond better and actually work the bill in a completely different way according to those indications. So I don't vote for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u58	Mr. President. I'll sign the Commission opinion with a warning I believe it is only right to make a brief explanation and it's about the finessells in the bill and the suggestions here. The guilt level has been a measure of concern. This is the second time the bill is submitted. For the second time, it was assumed that the level of fines would increase considerably in order to provide these provisions with greater strength and weight. So I think that original bill would have been better at this level as high as the top. A financial minister suggested, but the committee began to lower the level of fines by half. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it necessarily was wise, but I support the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u59	Mr. President. I'm here to account for the change of 1st paragraph. In this excellent bill we've been discussing a few times. This proposal comes from a greater part of the environment and transport committee. I'm the one standing here, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and why. Councilmen Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, making up this greater part. The adjustment proposal is very short: ▪ Instead of the date ▪31. issues of December 1, 2002, in the final article of Article 1. arrive: 31 December 2021 I believe that the proposal is in agreement with other members of the committee to the point of not making any other adjustments. This special Covid legislation has a valid period until the end of the current year, but not until the next year, nor until its completion, as has been maintained here in the conference room and at the turn of the year. Environmental and Transport Committee. So I'm hoping this will be the smell of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u60	A respectable president. I just want the final talk that has, like, what. An executive, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, has come in, went in and out of this room several times and mentioned that I'm skeptical of the need for legislation is actually present in the case. I think we should be careful that a case that may be moved in one way or another under the hat of the Covid operation does not maintain that position forever. It's just that this case came out in a hurry two months ago. In the meantime, there have been significant changes in regional legislation and when there is a vote, the Central Party will be included in that vote. I'd like to state that the changes in the case that have been made in the Committee are for improvement. But I just want to think that the need for legislation is not there for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to start with that, like everyone who comes here to say that I'm not going to extend the discussion. But there are various ways in which I can agree. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said earlier. The need for this matter can be discussed now. Well, it's something that's wrong. The Environment and Transport Committee was put in hand before Easter, and then things have exploded pretty much. There has been a positive trend in the health of the nation since the vaccination process and a positive trend has also been developed from the way this case worked in the activities of the Committee. I must commend myself. A pilot for taking the Polish to work together the majority opinion that lay ahead and then the minor opinion that signed with the support of the Conspira and Pirata on the committee, however. Councilmen of Guðjón S., Brjánsson and Andrés Ingi, son of Jónsson. This made the situation so that the one here could accept it on behalf of the restoration. However, in terms of whether we should not do this, I have to just take this opportunity and say this: We're facing a large percentage of the nation being vaccinated, and we're facing an increase in the tourism movement to come to the country, and that's a good thing. It is followed by a large percentage of the people who are likely to communicate especially with tourists, young people who have not yet been vaccinated. That's why I think it's important, despite all that, to finish this thing. We've prevented Iceland from being banned from coming to the country, they're not going to be able to demonstrate vaccinations or certicates, as was planned. But tourists I still believe that it is right to ask them to prove this, in view of the fact that, despite all of them, a large part of the nation is still not vaccinated. So we support this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u62	A respectable president. I had this discussion planned just to thank you. The environment and transport committees for putting into practice the importance of altering this bill to a marvelous degree from the bill first submitted between 2 and 3. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Time of value is greatly reduced. The original bill expected an almost two - year time, which, of course, would have been completely unacceptable in the eyes of the purpose and purpose of this law bill and in the light of the average measure that the people here should always honor. In view of this, I have canceled a suggestion for a change in this bill to the times of value. I just want to thank you for working together at the moment. In this regard, there is a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u63	Mr. President. I apologize for the delay, but I had a little extra meeting outside the councilroom. It's like the highest. I'll mention them to the President here an article for a committee study on bill to do a canal. It is most recently reported that the Environment and Transport Committee received 19 visitors, including 19 reviews, to itself and one memo from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. So I now understand what this is all about is the subject of the bill with these words in the Committee opinion, Mr. President: The bill suggests that there will be new universal laws on ships, so that laws on them will be in one law rather than in many different laws today. The bill is presented in accordance with the Treaty of Governments since 2017 for government cooperation and for the procreation of Generalis. It shows that there will be effort in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the public. Many legislators deal with ships in one way or another, many of them reaching their own age. A number of regulations have then been developed that further apply the laws of the law. Thus, the process has become broad and complex, and at present it is being done to simplify and update this regular work in the Department of Transport and Community Affairs. It's part of that project. The committee considers the whole bill to be for that purpose but responds to comments and comments in some cases. The review of the committee included dealt with the registration of foreign ships. It was a question of whether foreign ships that are in some part employed here should be registered in the Icelandic shipping list. The Commission does not agree with these statements, and it does not feel that any of the above ships are carefully recorded in Iceland because e.g. For fishing, ships can perform, but they don't have to be registered here. Rules about the so - called dry tenure were also adopted. It stated that it was desirable to determine what rules apply in Article 8. the bill on such things, for it seems that the state to which the ship will be registered will not necessarily respect its duties as a flag. The commission points out that the flag state has extensive responsibilities under international law that cover the pollution prevention, safety and rights of the ship, and that it is not possible to take full control of all the contracts that have to do with this bill. The measuring of ships was also discussed. There are two international releases, one taught London from 1969, the other at Oslo from 1947. It says here in a committee sheet that a measuring of ships is due to the international release of 1969 and the ton ton to be calculated according to all the equations. However, ships are still registered on ships that are by the old reading. The committee says that it is important to recommend a ship in the above - mentioned manner, old style, and therefore ignores the comment of the speakers. The committee also noted that the Agency had too broad evidence of a review of ships' measurements and that it was more desirable to provide such sources more clearly. The committee feels that it is wrong to agree with this subject's comments and points out that failure to perform tests may occur or points to the need for re-injection may occur. Must be assumed that such and other valid reasons are the means to respond as quickly as possible without any premise. The new design of ships was also discussed, i.e. mainly in monitoring. Advisory authorities believe that the use of a new system should be carried out by international and established classification partners. The committee points out that the bill suggests that there are rules and requirements of such associates at such times. However, there must be rules that apply to ships that are not classified and built in accordance with social rule rules. At the same time, the committee claims that criticism, which presented a double standard of opinion, should be exercised in organizing and implementing views. It recommends the establishment of a central shipping and surveillance database, as per the database of the Homing and Mobilization Agency. For the implementation of surveillance. It stated in a letter from sources that the ship's strategists most normally monitor commands and that a Grouping Agency is monitoring by law and rules. The committee reminds us that the situation is more complex than it can ever be. In 31st. it refers to a surveillance agency or to those authorized by the Agency to monitor. In addition, a bill shows that many Icelandic ships are not classed, nor are they under the supervision of a strategists. The bill opens the possibility that a Grouping Room can assign others to conduct a shipping inspection. This should ensure that monitoring is in accordance with international requirements. A living room is designed to provide such sources and to monitor the activities of agents working on behalf of the Agency. So the committee does not comment on the subject. Then there is a comment on working and rest hours that the committee will simply take care of so that the directives for the design of ships are not discussed in this bill. Then there are some changes made by the committee and regarding the registration of fishing ships, the registration of ships, the import of ships, the openness of opinion, the consultation of uninvolved ships, the protection of museum ships and the control guilty. I'm going to explain to them lightly. With regard to the registration of fishing ships, the Commission does not consider it a reason for making more demands to be registered to be fished, since such discrepancies may lead to a person who meets the criteria for fishing in Icelandic soil, a fishing ship is not allowed to be registered on a ship file because he does not have a legal home in this country. To ensure harmonization between laws, the Commission considers it more suitable in Article 7. The law of a ship would be referred to the above law No. 22/1998, which suggests a change of material. On the decommissionment of the ship, the committee received a comment that the law does not guarantee the rights of the synoptic courts and that the owner of a ship can legally dissert a ship in Iceland and register in a foreign shipping list without any consultation with bookmakers. This may result in less loans to financial institutions, where the current law reduces insurance protection as a synonym. In view of this comment, the Committee points out that the situation differs from that of the ship's registration protocols and aerosols in which aerosols are only registered but ships can be registered in both the order logs and the book of Congress. That is why the committee suggests a change. About the import of a vessel. There was a comment on pars. The bill. The committee agrees with the reviewer's opinion that the final verses are 28. which state that the import of a vessel should be subject to the approval of a Community organisation as all conditions are listed for the import further entry of the directive. Nevertheless, the Committee considers it important to inform the Agency about the import and suggest that the changes to its content. Changes in proposals are also presented on the subject of opinion. A minister is authorized by law to decide that certain types of ships should be separated from the field service. At the same time, a minister is allowed to decide that a ship that is not used for employment should be checked by the Grouping Room at regular intervals. The committee believes the 2nd issue is 1 mg. The law's blurred view of which ship a minister is authorized to separate the matter of observation and points out that the 2nd case is taken from the current law, but the 3rd matter is new in the bill. The 2nd issue has not been used so far, this is the opinion of the committee. According to the Committee, this issue is not needed in the light of Article 3, so it suggests that 2 of the hearings should go away. This is, in effect, an authority in a Regulation that allows a minister to keep certain ships apart from the issue of observation. A comment on consultation was made on the grounds of an undeveloped ship, primarily as a means of pollution. One reference work states that laws in the Law do not take into account the rules of the law No. 33/2004, on defence of marine pollution and coastal pollution, addressing measures from acute water pollution and coastal pollution. This law allows for consultation with a Community agency, or other approved bodies, to be taken into account by members of the organisation on what measures should be taken in such situations. Two. Thirty-seven. the bill is not expected for such a discussion. The Commission agrees with these comments and suggests that there will be an adjustment in the proposed consultation of a Community Association agency based on events involving the administration of the government. It is, in fact, there. We're talking about D.A. and other bodies. Next, we will discuss the protection of museum ships. There are plenty of old ships in Iceland and 39th. The bill deals with old ships, and it states that a minister can decide that new regulations cannot apply to them as well as to ships laid down or at an equivalent level of construction. The committee noted that the requirement, as it now does, does not reach ships that are merely for cultural purposes but not for professional purposes. The committee agrees with this comment and suggests a change of 39th par. so that such museum ships can fit within the arrangement. However, the committee would specifically like to say that with ships driven for cultural purposes, the ships themselves are cultural, not e.g. That cultural events are held aboard the ship. It's for renovations. Here's a section on the government finesse in which a number of teams are referred. I'm not gonna trace it, but I'm gonna point it out. Councilmen are to read the committee's opinion and compare it with the law, if they are particularly interested in it. But I'm gonna grab it down here. Given that moderate measures are taken into account in the application of the rules, taking into account the duration of fractures, cohesion and the inclusion of fractures, and provided that rules are clear, the Committee does not consider the need to review or modify the bill for administrative guiltys except for the h-dimer 1 mg. 45. g. ... pointingto Section 26. to monitor the new design of the ship. There the committee feels that criticism is valid, and it suggests that the staff should go away. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in the special Senate document presented here. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was away from the hearing, and it's signed May 21 of that. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the Committee, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who stands here, Guon of S. Brjánsson, Katrín Kartrinu Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Hjaltason Hojaltason, Kolbeinn Ottar's Óttarsson of Proppér, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir. Mr. President. I've concluded my case, and I hope that this sort of corrosion is now completely clear and changes in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u64	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym of the conversion to the Council Recontractation of No. 40/150, about five years of transportation programme for 2020-2024. This is a proposal proposed by the Environment and Transport Committee and, as reported at the highest level. The president is this case, No. 802 and on deck. 1471. It is suggested that the Council conclude with the transport legislation that the following changes will be made to the Council's conclusions on a five-year transport program for 2020-2024, as per Congress resolution of No. Forty from Council 150. These suggestions for changing are found in tables in the assumption. These are the changes in flights, roads, and ports. The reason for this proposal for a change in the five - year program adopted here less than a year ago is actually due to the government's investment efforts after Covid and additional funds for transportation through a financial program that we did at the end of 2020. I'm going to go into the report a little bit. The General agreed on a 29 June 2020 transport plan for 2020 2020 and a five-year transport plan for the year 2020-2024 as a conclusion no. 41/150 and 40/150. The effects of the pandemic Covid-19 led to the development of the transport strategy in the council over a year ago changed in a single moment. To cope with the economic consequences of the epidemic, the General Assembly adopted a special temporary investment campaign at 6,506 billion. K. In addition to what was expected when the transport program was implemented late in 2019, other measures taken in transport can be taken. The Commission provided changes to the transport programme in line with the content of the investment campaign and stressed that the project started with this campaign in 2020 would be assured of financial support. Not only would they be started at work but they would be completed so that they would work together in progress. It happened in the late autumn financial programme that it was added to the budgets that ensure the continuation of the investment initiative projects as well as, in fact, the continuation of the investment initiative. to ports, which were not entirely part of the original investment initiative 2020. Therefore, in the Parliament's resolution proposal, it is only suggested that the five-year transport programme be changed for the late 15-year transport programme. In other words, there is no suggestion for a change in Plan 2020-2034. The report is covered with projects, but I'm not going to go into them for a team. The provisions proposed for the budgeting period 20211⁄223 are linked to national interest, creating work during a pandemic economic recession, and promoting transport and safety in the road. To the present, of course, this was all the work that could be done quickly, implementing short notice when the investment campaign was started over a year ago. It's the same with docks, i.e. A continuation of investment investments 2020, a contribution to the docks ensures continued implementation of projects starting in 2020. In addition, contributions are made for the maintenance and maintenance of sealands as a result of the storm during the last winter. It was not fully completed when the transport program was being completed a year ago. Then there are some changes within the individual ports, all in detail in the report. Then it's the flying. There are already important projects in the field of transport and investment initiatives. The need for investment was, in fact, greater than what was fully financed. What may have changed since the recent mobilization of transport plans is that Istavia did not take over the direction of the Lagis standard airport. That happened at the end of the year. It changed as a result of the Covid epidemic. Of course, over the last year there has been a complete transition to the operation of Istavia. This leads to a change in the priority of the government funds to the Egl's state-of-the-field airport, and a malaboration of a runway at the Egl State Positioning Airport rather than the setting of a track or an extra airport as planned. Thus, the funding intended to build an additional racetrack, which would actually be a groundbreaking runway, an important task. There's nothing wrong with the runway. The estimated cost is 1.6 billion, of which 1.4 billion are provided for this year's work. However, it is expected that workers will be taken to a track in the Loftur Park Airport. In addition, it has been found that it requires more preparation than expected when these suggestions were being won a year ago. Thus, it is possible, first of all, to begin with 2024, the work was financed for that time. The project is then being carried out on a project regarding the construction of Air Force Bases, which will be able to move forward and can be completed in 2023 C.E. Similarly to flying in Akureyri, the cost plan has only increased, and the funding of the project to work is only gone on. Since the flight barn is in the final stages, it is a project to be completed after this proposal. There are also some smaller maintenance projects at airports suggested. It has then been explained by the main points in this synopsis proposed by the Environment and Transport Committee and is now being placed here for the benefit of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. Investigator of the Committee's opinion, Anna Sævarsdóttir, for the past, and for measuring for this change. There was a pretext of conjugal proposal. Environmental and transport committees to frame the impacts on transport programmes including transport of the various action measures that have been carried out in relation to the Covid situation all together. There's one thing I especially wanted to mention in this context, and that's the situation with the airports. Like what? paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir was introduced to a project that, in the flying security, has a tremendous effect, i.e. a highway along the Láll Zone Airport, in effect falling from previous schedules with the contribution of this case. In the context of words we speak at the highest. Of course, a minister of transportation earlier today at an unprepared time of inquiry wondered what was the highest point. In these matters, a minister is quick to deny, from the council's arrangement. For years, this enormously important matter has been cleared, having been established as an Loftur standard airport so that he can perform his secondary role properly, but it is stated in the processing of this case that it is simply not. The funds to take the racetrack will be moved to grind the track on the field itself that has been screaming for years, and in reality, there is more to it than any other and irreversible damage at the time of waiting for it. I just want men to keep it in mind that a sound and a picture has to go together in these matters. If the highest. A secretary of transportation saw a reason earlier today to suggest that members of the council felt that it would be justified in saying one thing today and another thing tomorrow, I must refer them to the Fathers. V.E.G. A minister has to look at himself in terms of the seeming failure of this apparently planned way to save a case at an Eglial Airport at a corner in one way or another. Of course, it is possible to make sure that it is due to the effect of the Covid situation on Istavia. The fact is, the decision has just been made to spit a substantial amount of money into Istavia as a new piece of stock to carry out the Chefjordur Airport. Then there can be no other conclusion than that it is a decision not to take care of those assignments at the Lál Stadium. Since a decision could be made to continue projects in Keflavík despite the effects of the Covid pandemic but to fall away from the ideas of a driving track that will have a huge impact on the role of the Lofl State Airport as a security field, that must be available. This road cannot be shaken out of proportion, for it is truly a matter of organization. That it is now becoming evident in the form of a memo described in the Ministry's memo that it is not practical to watch - although I cannot find it very quickly, I believe that it is looking to 2026, with the permission of a president: If financing is available, a return to the track will be made and the start of a 2024 project will be possible. 2024. This is a procedure that was flammable as a Covid operation. Of course, there is no viewpoint, and of course a travel minister must try to explain where he was driving into a ditch in this regard. It is not advisable just to come to a later stage when this is neither organizational nor financial, but it has made a big contribution to the development of more thousands of jobs, in fact, not just on this project, the enormous construction of the work, and the number of jobs to be done, including the number of jobs. When it seems that there was never any harm to it, these projects were performed at the Loftur Park Airport. It must've been in the Ministry for some time that way wasn't good. Then comes the top. Ministers here, speaking of other members of Congress who feel that they can say one thing today and another tomorrow when the fact is that it is quite clear. A secretary of transportation has done so. I have a print here from a news release on the Department of Transport and Division's web from November 28, 2019, including the U.S.A. is celebrating the signing of a contract for research at a potential airport in the Basshaun, which is, of course, completely crazy that it is still in when volcanic eruptions are in the vicinity. One of the focus points in the paper signed at the end of 2019 is, by permission of the president: The LAX improved as an alternate airport for international flight. It is suggested that the Loftur Positioning Airport be improved as a reserve airport for international flights throughout Iceland, with the aim of installing up to 15 more planes at the airport by building a runway route. This deal is from 2019. There is no smile on any Covid. Then, waiting and repeated reviews that this is the first premium to run quickly because it requires so much injection due to the various Covid procedures. So there is a financial and organizational problem to be identified, and all responsibility for transport ministers must be referred to in this respect. I wanted to keep this up. Sadly, this is not the only point you could point to. What is now so crying out is that this addition to the change in transport plans is to frame it completely out of control and that it seems to be of the most lack of interest. The secretary of transportation is to establish an Egal's final airport to the preconceivable outlook on his secondary airport role. It's fine, then, that it is now that it is. Why is the matter of planning and delays in moving up in 2021 when this is a special point in the D.C. report since the late part of 2019 C.E.? Either the minister and his people are not well within the case, which, of course, is of interest to themselves, or they would put their heads in the sand and not want to see the reality that was involved. In any case, the flying community has been deceived by this security display of friendship and the local people in the East. Even if this is true today, you must realize that these organizational statements have been made long before matters were put in the suit of not having to take this job as a special Covid procedure. It's the only thing that doesn't seem right. This was what I wanted to do with this discussion. I am glad that the matter has been presented and that various decisions have been introduced in the way this is done. But I thought it was necessary to keep it to the airport section that there's a hole that didn't fall from the sky. This should have been evident for quite a while. I'm afraid it is in the best way of showing signs that they repeatedly flaunted matters that were beyond the corner, when it is obvious that there was no meaning behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for the talk. I would like to follow this discussion and the position that has come up with an Eglel standard airport to ask the director of the Transport Committee, but we have gathered a meeting that has been arranged by Istavia: Does it not seem remarkable that the Chairman, who takes all the property at the airport and is supposed to be there aware of all the knots, has not set this up a year ago when we were discussing it and had it planned? In fact, although Istavia repeatedly appeared before the committee, they did not show that it would take a long time to prepare for it until today in the spring months of 2021. Similarly, during the past year, I had a visit by representatives of Istavia, so the malabundance of Eglish Airport was in many ways not as urgent as it is, and the local people had repeatedly mentioned me, e.g. last year and year before that. It never directly appeared before the committee last year. I don't remember the exact wording we put together in a committee opinion that, most of the committees, a year ago, took care of that project. That was not necessarily a year, even a two - year delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u67	Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tape for the answer. I think that part of our impression that there's no sound and image in this translocation of the two international airports, Eglish status and Akureyri airports, we should just focus on the Loftur State Airport right now, if that doesn't. It doesn't compare sound to a picture in this case. V.E.G. A minister of transportation has spoken in this way throughout the ideal period more and less that it is now beyond the corner that Istavia is taking over the business and, of course, has a lot of possessions in this field. But then, when you talk to Istavia, everything seems to be a much clearer and more blurred directive in the material, despite the signing of a signed agreement, I can't remember when last year, at the beginning of the year expected, that this would be the case, that Istavia would take over the operation. We can only hear at the conference that the Ministry is on the other hand, and Istavia looks this in a very different way, in order to put it mildly, as to whether the basis is unchanged and in what way this can happen below. I strongly criticize that the Department of Legal Affairs has taken the pants to the heels of these matters because I have felt that the tone of Istavia, when the company or its representatives have planted the committee, has always felt that it had not been led to the ground by the way things were going to happen. And maybe the thing that was on hand was this agreement, I don't remember what form it was, but let's call it an agreement or a joint memorandum of the Ministry and Istavia regarding this translocation. However, it is obvious that Istavia views the matter as being completely resolved now following the situation that has developed with Covid. To answer the question about the cover-up of the track, which says the assimilation, it has been very clear to me all the time I've been sitting in an environment and transportation committee, and from the message and answers that have been received that this would be all up to that emergency operation, to cross malaria at the Egil State Airport. It would not be stored, and it would be keeping it just for the last year, so to speak, meant a great deal of risk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. One is this Istavia takeover on the basic flight system, which is very important, but I can totally agree with it. A senator says that it is not for what it will be like. There's a thing that's going to have to go to work. It's not gonna be a pleasure to be involved in this uncertainty. Another is the responsibility of Istavia to make clear the need for performance for the environment and transport committee, regardless of what the Ministry is offering and extremely specific if the Ministry offers suggestions that it may be clear not to go up on this road that Istavia does not accept the responsibility to provide correct information when it was handled a year ago. Well, maybe. A senator wouldn't agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. First, answer the question: Yes, there would have been a great improvement then. But I would have to take my notes to my notes, no matter what response they gave me. One would think that any messages received from the Council in one way or another, whether by the Committee for Transportation or by the Committee of Transport, or by primes presented here or by the same type, applied to this same well, would be what was being seen. Perhaps the problem is that there is not the same interest in a Ministry of Justice and the Ministry that handles the professional management of airports in Iceland and air traffic complete, the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. Maybe it's another smell of this ohf-language that I've personally had a lot of doubt about being a benefit. I think the problem is what I mentioned earlier, that it was not long between a sound and a picture between the views of the transportation minister and the transportation agency on the other hand, Istavia on the other hand, and the third member of this may have been the financial agency. For flight and flight security in Iceland, there is some way to bring this to the ground, since the present situation is not acceptable. The solution to the situation that I allow me to call, which I find in these days, is not acceptable either to those in the east, to the airlines that use it, or to those that use it, from the reserve flight system, and to the messages sent by the Council. I don't think there can be any senator, and most of all, with the Environment and Transport Committee agents, are content with these issues. [[The president calls.]] But I agree with what. In view of his doubts about the reality of this, a member of the body of elders is sure to confirm that Istavia could have taken a firm stand on the earth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u70	A respectable president. I'm here representing a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. This is the bill on changing the commitment insurance law. In other words, it goes on to extend laws that can be used for the special savings to a mortgage. I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, to read the committee opinion as it is only a few lines: The bill suggests that the tax-free provision of specialisation in relation to autologous houses should be used, as per temporary XVI and XVII regulations on the mandatory insurance rights and the activities of pensions and temporary LV laws on income taxation, will be extended by two years, on June 30, 2 to 2023. Reservok Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjörðurdóttir writes under the committee's opinion that the procedure does not feel permanent in the long term. Authorities must implement a specialisation programme based on data, analysis and need. A decision must be made on how long the operation will last. The majority suggest that the bill be passed on as it should. Under this brief committee opinion, write why. Óli Björn's Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir, Bjonk's Haraldsdóttir, Bjorn's Hjálmar Bárald's daughter, Elimmar the son of Hafliðason; Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson; Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson; and Sigmundur, the son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson. As mentioned earlier, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir writes to that in advance. A respectable president. On this occasion, I'd like to say that I'm not just in favor of the committee and these changes, but I think they're important. I have long felt that having one's own home is essentially an important pension. This is clear, and it's in the report with the bill from the highest level. Financial and economic ministers that these are measures taken at their time, first 2014, and were part of the government's management plan for the collapse of the housing bar. It is true that the situation at that time was different from that of today, i.e. The homes in the country owed much more than they do today. This may have motivated these actions at the time. They have been extended since then, i.e. a set of regulations that show that the first apartment buyers can take out their special savings and use it as a down payment on property but also that others can use some of their special property every year to pay off mortgages. I want to say that I understand the discussion that even took place. in relation to the question of how long this should continue and if it would be sustainable. It is a measure of anxiety because our pensions are important and our property is important and intended for the time when people leave work. Then I feel that it is important to be taken into account that having a home and not paying off property when older ones start using a pension fund is in itself a huge pension plan. A respectable president. I think this case is the best, and I'm glad we're in trouble. A financial and business committee has managed to agree to suggest that this bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u71	A respectable president. We're here on the prolongation of the use of special property savings. I received a request from someone who is in disability, who lost his job, but who had special savings, and who wanted to continue to be able to take advantage of it, but who could not, was denied. I'm also thinking about out of work, about people who've had unemployment. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would have discussed this with the committee. You see, these are monthly payments on the head chair. Could be at least Not taking advantage of this amount each year, as expected in the bill? It shows that not as many took advantage of the arrangement as expected. It is only a matter of fairness that if people want to try to make use of this but cannot, because they are in situations where they have lost their job or are in other circumstances out of disability or in some other situation. This is important, especially since it is tax freedom. I'm asking about your reasonableness in that it's just about whether you have a job or not. Also, it's because you can have lost your job because you're running Covid. In itself, it is even more unfair not to consider this matter, considering all that has been done to improve matters. I'm wondering if this could be taken into a committee between discussions and at least try Check it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u72	A respectable president. I think I can answer that this has not been particularly discussed in this matter by the Committee. If I understand why. A senator would be correct in referring to the fact that people who are not really paying for the extra pension money at this time would be allowed to use the crown they own in additional pensions to pay on property. I don't recall that discussion being conducted. We may have come to a discussion about what those who have been criticizing have pointed out, just as additional pensions are meant when you get into a pension. The rest of us who have already spoken about this have foretold that having real estate is also a waste of our lives. That's why it's covered. It's not for those who have the highest income and who pay a lot of extra pensions, they can't use all these payments to pay off their mortgages, they're covered about 500,000 bucks. ... onanalmanacownofan individual and 750,000 dollars. on a married couple. Whether this is because of illness or unemployment or for some reason in the position of not paying on extra pensions for a certain period of time or for some reason, they were overemphasis on their property. I think that everyone can ask for a topic to go into a conversational committee, and it can be handled well. But this is my first reaction to this question, What effect might that have on me? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We need to realize that there are individuals like disability pensioners and joblesss and others who have not even been able to apply this. They have even purchased their first apartment, but they have not been able to take advantage of their money because it was not in the hours they were at work. They may have some kind of money and are just trying to get this tax appeal that they can't get for some reason because they land somewhere between the ship and the dock in this case. It goes on to say that if the purpose is to help and the people who may be the worst in the world and have an apartment home and want to take advantage of this tax charge - then it must be possible. I'd say that under there, there's not a lot of money. It would be no great deal to allow these individuals to have this opportunity. I'd say that would be absolutely fine. I don't know how many people would like to take advantage of this, but I know at least that. about one person who has pointed out that he wanted to take advantage of this. That would have been 500,000. For this person if he is an individual, for a couple it is 750,000, and he could only use it over a year if he has so much. In fact, the question is, Do these individuals have more or less than they have the opportunity to be included in this example? I think it's somehow just fair because there's a person asking to be involved and to get this tax appeal that's being given to the crowd, but for some reason the person is left behind because he is in the difficult situation of losing a job and is not receiving this one month. That's just what's happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-25-100.u74	A respectable president. I don't know if I have a lot to add to what I said here. Perhaps it would be nice to say that no reviews of this bill were received into the committee. We thought that it was because people know this plan well, that has been discussed for a long time, and most have been very positive. In contrast, reviews were received in their consultations. Those who gave reviews were describing a great deal of satisfaction with the bill, as well as a statement from the local communities, a tip about their loss of income because it was doing something that was given a payoff. But I hear why. A senator says, and I think there's a reason to argue with and against it. I still think it's a very important matter to discuss that will benefit the majority of all households in the country. If some people are falling off a crack, I think there's good reason to look at it and see if there's anything I can do about it. But I repeat, I still don't think we should let it cause the majority of households not to get the legal benefits involved here. I think we're gonna do what. A senator can agree on this.
