ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u1	Mr. President. I bring here an understatement with a long title adjustment of the bill for a change in the laws of loyalty and pollution, the environmental assessment laws and the climate laws (carbonisation). It's the shortest thing to say. The Environment and Transport Committee received nine visitors and four envelopes. Because the committee's opinion is short, I'm going to read its main ingredient. The bill contains the implementation of Directive 2009/31/EC of the earth's carbon dioxide storage system in Icelandic law changing the production of carbon dioxide and the reduction of carbon dioxide for permanent storage by the European Union. Thus, a standard reduction of carbon dioxide for storage and reduction of carbon dioxide to stone levels will be permitted, i.e. The Carbonix method developed in this country, which called attention to many countries around the world. The committee rejoices that the COfix method has proved itself to be an advantage in the binding of carbon dioxide on the land. Moreover, it is enjoyable to benefit from it outside a country where the situation is correct. It also helps foreign companies to bind this greenhouse type of environment and thereby exploit the ETS trade system in the European Union. With the use of the COfix method, Iceland can contribute an initial and effective role in the fight against climate change. It was noted that the definition of the bill on carbon dioxide consumption for permanent storage in the aquifers might be too narrow by making special mineralification. Other technological solutions for the storage and binding of carbon dioxide could develop and therefore should not be defined by specifically specifying stone as a permanent storage method. The Commission agrees with the views presented in the bill's report that other methods of decomposition can continue to be tested where there will be still a source of research and development projects. In the event of new effective measures for permanent storage of carbon dioxide from such research and development, the law could be re-evaluated and authorized. As shown in the bill report, the Carbonix method falls under the directive in the opinion of European experts. It is less important to note what happens after the injection, i.e. whether it is fossilized or stored as a gas below the earth. The Commission encourages the Commission to continue talking with the European Commission with the aim of hastening a review of the European Union's regulations so that both methods of subsidies for permanent storage will be ensured clearly in the Regulation. I'd like to add that, Mr. President, for an explanation, this reduction of carbon dioxide as a gas and the storage of the gases which have been practiced by air, let's say, the Icelandic method, in the microband fashion, is new from the needle. The important thing is that according to the European Union, it takes note of both methods, although it is still missing in wording that it is mentioned in the Regulation. The Environmental and Transport Committee is saying to encourage them to continue their discussions and this work done. The Commission feels that by this legislation there is nothing to be underestimated by those who intend to use the carbon binding method, either domestic or foreign. The committee also emphasizes the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while increasing carbon binding. Neither the project precludes or diminishes the importance of the other. Here's a motion that I'm not going to read because it's just correction of reference to the figure. The committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with the small subsidiary proposal and that this year she writes on February 25th, Chairman Bergþór Ólason, Director Ari Trausti Guðmundsson of the magazine, Guðjón Brjánsson Brunsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friððursson, Jón Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur Gauti Einar, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Lininika Árnason Savarsdæsdæs, and Vilmimurmurfjörnnason. Jón Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case, but they signed this opinion according to a 4 mgr source. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Here I have considered this committee opinion, and it may be odd, since we stand here and are discussing how the source of carbon dioxide in the earth might begin on the Smokenes Peninsula that will pump large amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, such as volcanic eruptions have made for centuries and millions of years together, and we will not be able to pump it into earth's layers and chains. But, Mr. President, I've concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u2	V.E.G. President. I see there's a crazy stuff in the councilroom, but I'm giving a commission for a bill on a regular and ongoing information-to-end-of-the-art bill-of-the-art information-of-employer-of-employer-of-the-copy. The bill includes the implementation of the 2004 European Parliament and Council Directive, which is often referred to as the translucency tips. This bill is suggested to provide a complete new full law on the information related to the publishers of the stocks. In particular, the directive recommends the coordination of regular information on the publishers of stocks that have been taken exchange in a structured stock market and the publication of information about the change of a significant share of voting rights or holdings in such publishers. The committee calls attention to the fact that at contributions, the bill was marked by the wrong legislation and that it is normal to be printed. The Commission received a financial and economic memo on changes mainly technical and technical changes in accordance with Iceland's Secret Bank and considers a greater proportion of the tips stated in the memo legitimate and suggests changes in the bill in accordance with them. The majority also suggest a shortening of the bill's name, as well as the proposed several technical changes that are not intended for material influence. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Smári Mccarthy was absent from the case, but it is considered that, plus me as an authority figure: President Óli Björn Kárason, President Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Bordi Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u3	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of P.R., No. 82/2008 ( civil obligation). The committee has discussed the matter and has been Bryndís by Gunnlaugsdóttir Oddsson and Gunnarsson Hrannar of the Ministry of Justice, Dr. The committee received reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, BSRB and the European Union of Iceland. With law No. 27/2020, Change of Public Protection Act, No. 82/2008, the P.R., was added to the provisional regulations on the obligation of civil employees of public citizens to conduct jobs in the interests of public defence at a time of crisis. The law applied to January 1, 2021, and was intended to deal with the state of society due to the crowning epidemic. The bill suggests that the same provisional principle applies to January 1, 2022. Since it has not yet been successful in removing the Korean virus epidemic, the greater part of it is a reason to believe that the temporary authority given by the bill still determines the value of the virus. Last year's experience shows that the source has given a great deal and has caused various public members to request a prolonged period of time. In other respects, the majority of the articles refer to the above laws, No. 27/2020, on the grounds and need of legalization and the opinion of the Committee on the matter (697th matter of the 150th legislation Council), including the viewpoint on the average and on the remuneration. The majority also state that a review of the P.P. laws is being made. Its bill was published on January 29th of the Board of Management Board. and is the first step in a legal review. The report on this bill also shows that the project of the year 20221⁄22025 will be carried out in extensive consultation with an overall legal review. The majority are celebrating the above, but in the above - mentioned committee it was considered by the Committee that there was good reason to attack the total legal review. In view of all of this, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill, and under this publication, Páll Magnússon, which says here, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgis, Birgir of Ármannsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsótnu, Thurna Bárna, and Sabídídur Gunlótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u4	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a matter of Congress, a bill to legalize the commitment of life insurance rights and the operation of pension funds. This is a matter related to the social responsibility of pensions and their equality policy, and hence 12 members of four panels, the Council of Reunion, along with members of the Congress of the Superjugation, United States, and the Congress of Pirata. The bill has been submitted three times before, so it is reassigned today. The change in this bill is two, the first one reads: ◯ At 1st. 36 st. The law adds to a new number, as follows: The pension fund shall set up an equal policy that covers the fund's investments. 36th. The law on pension fund is generally addressed on the investment policy of pension funds and stated some points to be kept in mind that pension funds, including being guided by funds and setting moral standards in investments, to name just a few. So this proposal suggests that there is a new figure on equality policy and that equalism will reach the budget's investments. The second change was 41st. which includes a report of the management of a pension fund and then reads, by permission of the President: We're 2nd. 41 st. The law adds new numbers, as follows: conduct the financial equality policy of the fund. This refers to the fact that a report of the management board, along with a general fund review of the year's activities, provides information on how the pension funds were carried out on the policy of equality, if this bill is approved, to be set. Before I go into the subject of the bill itself, I would like to have a few words about the situation that is evident when power fibers in Icelandic financial life are traced. It turns out that a Icelandic financial nation is monogamous. The Icelandic financial nation is a male. The vast majority of business employees' banks, savings funds, pension funds, registered market partners, unsolved insurance companies, credit companies, stock markets, and services are men. It is a group that controls thousands of billions of dollars and chooses any amount of money they direct. In view of these figures, these data, this position, it is safe to say that since money and power are being held together, the glass roof is kept firm. Now in Iceland's Copenhagen, 19 companies are registered and all of them meet criteria for the ratio of gender in governments, normal. These genders have been fixed in the law. In the management of five of these 19 companions, women are as numerous as the men or more, but in 17 of these groups, men are both presidents and directors, and 11 of these groups are appointed to three quarters of men or more, and there is no one in registered association with the Stock Hall. Looking back in a few years, the difference between these numbers and these proportions I've traced here, the proportion of men and women in the highest management group, is closer to standing. It has not changed much in recent years, but it must be counted as one of the most progressive years of our overall life in equality. Mr. President. The thing I'm talking about right now is about our pension fund. Their influence in Icelandic business life is considerable. Pension funds are the most important members of the Icelandic financial market for some time. Only to put things in a further context of the power and management of the pension fund at the end of December 2019 were their assets assessed at approximately 5,000 billion bucks. More than 70% of that property was within the country. It has its natural explanation and is changing gradually, yet it sets standards for the position and authority of the head of a life of pension, big and small. The fund holds a large portion of the bonds and registered shares, either indirectly or directly through funds they have invested in and, as noted, they also invest a lot in unrecognised assets, e.g. the cost of real estate money is high, and so you could continue to pay for it. According to the law on the mandatory insurance rights of pensions, which I was referring to at the outset, and the operation of pension funds, all the employees and/or persons who are engaged in employment and/or independent activities are obliged to ensure their pension rights by being involved in a pension fund. Our pension fund thus handles public funds and, as a result, obviously has a more social function than most of the other investors do. This role is recognized and reflected, including. of the year 36. where it is stated that pension funds should guide financial interests and set moral standards in investments. So the change presented here is to suggest that the funds are more likely to become part of the social role of pensions in terms of equal positions and the equal rights of men and women in the community by recommending that the funds set out an equal policy that extends to their investments and that, in the annual report of the funds, the implementation of that policy has been carried out, i.e. ... howinvestmentsofthefunds have harmonized with policy. In this way, the funds of pension are to explain specifically the grounds for investing in companies with a sex accord that is largely high among the highest rulers, for example. It's not being banned, it's being asked to be clear. Mr. President. In fact, such a policy should be self-recognized and normal in view of the role of pension funds in the community, while research shows that companies with a balanced gender ratio in the management and the executives account for all equals the degree of error in either direction. So this should actually fall under the social responsibility of the already stated funds. But in view of the situation in Icelandic business, the statistics I have, in fact, the figures I have. Read up here and is known and has changed little in recent years, and it seems appropriate to give a special consideration to the duties of the pension fund by law. Although much has been achieved in the international equality sector, there is a measure of community activity and an example of that is just the financial sector that is directed by men. Then there are the pension funds that stand out from other companies because they belong to the public. They've also, so I've assigned it, a social function to play by working with our money, our obligations into the fund, and they're very important business participants in their investments. Here is a suggestion that the pension fund shoulder responsibility when it comes to promoting equality in the community. In this way they were able to fulfill their community responsibilities in the best way they could. The standard for equality is set in Article 1. This bill, however, is not enough because there has to be a translucency of how it is being carried out, and thus it is being intertwined that the pension funds are related under these laws to account for how it is carried out, i.e. Explain why investments are in companies that do not meet equality criteria and therefore support that investment still meets social responsibility, moral standards etc. That situation may arise, but it should be a simple matter to argue about it. So here it is said that a fund of pension should be legalized to support its choices and decisions, but it is not a law to set out exactly what to do with their decisions and choices. This is not a legal fixation of the intervention of decisions otherwise, and it can, in reality, be regarded as a major limit to the freedom of the pension fund but simply as a normal requirement for those on the part of the funds and those on the interests of making decisions and measures that are well-founded. It is the political obligation to watch for ways to improve and change the world systems for the benefit of the public, and there is no reason, on the contrary, to leave the defined area of society out of there. Nor should we allow ourselves to suffer, as here seems to be the threat, of a certain area of society becoming involved in sexual misconduct. The reviews of the case in previous experiments provided a harmony as to the importance of the matter and the importance of its objective. On the other hand, some felt that with these changes there would be a chance that less emphasis would be given to investors in accordance with the rules of reason, and I would refer, for example, to a financial investment. In the review of the FDA, i.e. that to meet the obligation of investing in enterprises where there is equal equality in the management and executives or to support the investment would be a risk of less emphasis on investing in accordance with a rational rule. I have to say, here is a misunderstanding that will be good if we get further settled or eliminated from the work of the Committee when the case is being handled by the council and the committee gets guests. So the fact is, as I have repeatedly said, that all that has to be done is to back up the decision. Surely all of us can agree on that. It is required in the spirit of a wise rule. Similarly, it is against a common rule that professional investors, like commercial pensions, can free themselves of all the responsibilities that you feel are sometimes attached to when it comes to investments in modern employment. Some commentators have also noted that such legal procedures, as fine and positive as they are, were reaching all institutions of investments and that the pension funds were not taken out specifically. I can totally agree that this is the preferred option for all investments, but it's a fundamental difference between pension funds and other institutions, which is that pension savings is legal. That is why more and more community obligations are common to the executives of their professional investors. Mr. President. I've concluded my case, and I wish that the case should go to the Economic and Business Committee, and I had confidence that this will be a success and rapid progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u5	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006 (total share section). The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - At 3 mg. 13th par. The law adds two new terms, as follows: A single party of fish that has a fishing vessel with an amendment should be added to the sources available to the trader. Most of the entirety is considered to be part of a buyer in the sense of 1 and 2 mg. and provides the limitations it has to do with it. 2.g. It adds a new provision, as follows: Let the total share of fish ships be owned by one person over the limit set at 2 mg. 13th par. persons should take steps to set up an overall share so that they can fit within the legal limit for the end of the fishing year 2025/226. The Article with the bill is as follows: This bill suggests changes in fish control laws, No. 116/2016, for further cut-offs on how to count the stock share of members, taking into account the legal provision of the maximum sector, scr. 1st and 2nd. 13th par. The law. Rules on maximum power departments were legally established by law No. 27/1998, the change in fish control law. A bill in which the law stated that the main objective of a maximum sector sector policy is that individual enterprises could not become large enough to directly inhibit normal competition in development. The objective of this bill, therefore, is to state that when an individual person buys a share in another fishing vessel, which owns a catcher's cuttery, whether smaller things or more, the new ratio of resources to what was already owned by a buyer is put into place. It is immediately clear whether the financial share exceeds the limit set in verses 1 and 2. 13th par. The law. For example, if the owner of a construction company A, which owns 5% stock department, buys 49% of the stock exchange company B, which owns a total of 6% of the stock department, the total share of A total of 5%, which were already included in 49% of the 6% share of the sellers, or less than 3%, i.e. anything at all, less than 8%. Thus, the change proposed with the bill is intended to prevent up to half of all resources from building up on one person. This should still be done, if 1.mg. 14th par. The law, informing Fish Office for the purchase of property in law enforcement, et cetera. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 13th par. The law. It is then proposed that a new provisional measure will be set up that measures the lead-in period for those affected by these changes and will cross the legal maximum of the collection units based on them. The information of the bill can have a burdensome effect on the work that has been established in accordance with local laws at any given time and therefore it is appropriate to give them a period of adaptation to changing rules. A similar law was set in the hands of a large section of operation under the permission of a maximum power department. The adjustment proposed by this bill is intended to further clear up the rules of maximum resources division at each time in the fish management law and to take from the doubt that we will buy individual parties at a share in another company, and the shareholders' share with the available stock share would share with the buyer's stock share. Hence, the changes are for simplicity and are designed to strengthen the support of healthy fishing competition. This will be the end of this report, so to speak, and I'm going to sum up the real issue in human languages. In recent decades, we Icelanders have established a fishing system, which is sure to be the best, if not the best, of what is known in the world. We use our fish stocks in a sustainable way as science can best tell and get out of this resource the maximum resources for society all. This is a industry that regularly beat us through a bank crisis and Covid, and it's always been there when other trees fail. But no system is so good that it can't be improved, and there are things to be added to the government of fishing that would result in the loss of social reconciliation over the system. On one of these issues, I accept the bill on which we are discussing and turn to the contracting of property in the fishing road. In the name of convenience, we have decided to endure considerable compression, which has yielded tremendous benefits. We now attend with much fewer and more perfect ships, much less oil costs, and much less cost in other areas. For example, the oil use of the fishing fleet has decreased by half in over 20 years. But we'd like to set this compression some boundaries, as I used to trace here, for both competitive reasons and to maintain a certain variety of outputs. In the current fish - control law, the divorce is that no one is allowed to have more resources than 12% of the total. It's a good and blessed thing, but the problem in the law is, in my opinion, that the property of a single company in another is not included unless it exceeds 50%. In other words, one company may theoretically have 12% markets, then 49% of all other companies in the country that have resources. It's not in the spirit of the law. It's not supposed to be possible. To eliminate any doubt about that point, this bill is submitted. Happily, today large people in this industry seem increasingly aware of the importance of achieving as much social reconciliation as possible about the fishing system, and there is a need for a sense of ownership. Now it's time to record one of the finest fishing companies in the country, the Cold Processing, the stock market, and this report was read in the News magazine last week, with the permission of a president: ▪ A record of a share in the Cold Processing is primarily designed to respond to the call of time for widespread possession in the marine soil, says Þorsteinn Baldvinsson, director of the Már, the largest shareholder in the company. The debate on the broader and more distributed holdings in the fishing waters has been increasingly evident: ◯ Humans do not always need to be trapped in the same rudimentary. Thus, it is an attempt to meet the discussion that has been done on the seabed and to make better peace with the article, in the late 1980's, by Þorsteinn Grafstein article. These words are directed by the director of the largest fishing road company in Iceland, as well as by the 100 largest fishing companies in the world, cling perfectly to the material and spirit of the bill we're discussing here. Finally, I wish the bill would travel to 2nd. and the pro committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u6	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to correct the change in fish control law and I'd like to thank a senior for this fine case. I think what he came into his speech, about increasing transparency in the fishing road, is extremely important. That's extremely important to all of us. The seabed road is a little hot in the discussion, so it is important that when we consider it, the entire bridge of what is presented is covered. You might consider it in the treatment of this bill that when we talk about a 12% cod level of the entire body, it's now a little strange for many. This is not to say that everyone knows what cod value means or how many species are in codfish values. Even the person standing here who claims to know things about the fishing road might not be quite ready to know how many cods are, or car or long, or what is now called all of them, these types of species that we deal with. Therefore, it may be an idea, and I would like to suggest it to the job committee, to consider in the treatment of the situation that the total maximum share of each company in the quatane or in the share would be expressed in percent of each species, not in cod values. It would greatly increase transparency that required exactly what each enterprise should, e.g. in percent of herring, or what each company owns, in percent of her lobster, cod, or nip. Then everyone in itself could see what it is. But when you say it's a lot of cods of phosia or karaoke, it confuses people. I think this would increase transparency. I also think that what was presented in the introduction of an authority speaker earlier, the news he reports about as fine a company as the cold process, is going into the market, is one of the factors that increase the transparency in this article. It's going to increase the peace and confidence that it takes so much to expand into the fishing road, and I'm so happy that more companies are going to the Sale Hall. I think it's extremely important that the biggest factory is registered there. It has some information that companies have to do, some of the information that people call for, and it is designed to increase the peace and trust in the marine soil. It is a basic piece of work for a number of settlements. He is the article that always stands out, the article that stands out in Covid, and the article that stands out when it comes to innovation. In its shelter, the largest and most powerful innovations of the Icelanders have evolved, and thus it will remain. In this article, there is a tremendous amount of money and investment. It must continue to grow, and, of course, it is our job to create for the fishing grounds, such as all other occupations in the country, a fine setting that makes the economy strong and good for paying the people of the country a fine reward.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u7	A respectable president. I just wanted to use this time in the second round and take heart to what happened. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson here. In my speech, I mentioned that this bill as it is, there is an amendment of one aspect of our fishing system. There are others, including. That's what I'm talking about. A senator raised an issue earlier. In fact, instead of considering these conflicting cod values mentioned earlier, and the subject for another bill would be better, to aim at the maximum of the total share of each wounded species. I think there's a much more reasonable approach, and that's where we're at. A senator wholeheartedly agreed. There is one factor that can be corrected. In this brief speech, I would like to mention another point that is an adjustment. The current fish - control laws stipulate the so - called premium of rural society to ships with resources, if it is available to sell them from the local community. This has been put to the test in the court system, and there is the conclusion of the Supreme Court that this law, or thought, is not involved. No active premarital privileges exist, as is expected in the fish - control laws. In that case, I feel that it is necessary to clean up properly. Either the lawgiver finds out that he or she will be assured of the premarital right or that he will be excluded from the law. It is not guaranteed by present law under the Supreme Court, and it is either to achieve this, to make the premium active, or then to repeal this law, not to enforce a law on the government of fish that has been rejected by the Supreme Court. Now it's so that I'm not quite sure of my fault in this matter. Are these rights of premarital action to be made active or not? Are we going to make sure that rural society gets this prenup and then with a different tune than now, or should we take it away? One of the two must be done. It is not possible to have rules in the fishing laws that have been decided to fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u8	A respectable president. I'm taking the bill here to legalize the work permit for the Southis line two. - 1 gr. It reads, with permission of the president: In spite of organizational guidelines, no. 123/2010, and Regulations on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000. The rural communities Hafnarfjörður, Vogar, Smokeytown, and Grindasvík should publish this material within two weeks of the validation of these laws. The run-in period is 12 months from the reporting of the rural government. These areas should be monitored according to organizational requirements. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ A respectable president. It's the bill that goes with the silent report: The target of this bill's donation is that it will be authorized to allow Landsnet to be performed in the construction of Southern Line 2 in the country of Hafnarfjörður, Voga, Smokejanestown, and Grindavík. Enabling electricity transport systems in Southnes is an urgent task, and Southnes have been put first by confounding the government's policy of building the electricity transport system. 26/148. The importance of the project is undisputed, and it is being carried out on the rural society in which it resides. The evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency was completed with the opinion of the Agency on April 22, 2020, which covered the main employment initiative, as well as five other options. Despite this, there have been unexplained delays in implementation for the project. In this regard it must also be taken into account that the concerned rural communities had previously issued a work permit for the implementation which was invalid on the basis of a lack of detailed work on landline options as assessed by environmental impact. This problem has now been added, and the conclusion is that the best choice will be given to the costs and natural hazards of the area. The project is now not meeting the standards set for staging land cables during a Congress resolution of government policy on the fixation of electrical lines No. 11/144, except for the area nearest to Hafnarfjörður. There is also the possibility that some of the local ground strings are limited, cremation. The report Earth Strings in Electrical Energy Transportation by Hjörtur Jóhannsson It is likely that geological possibilities will be more useful in other parts of the transport system in areas that meet the criteria for correction of electrical lines. Therefore, further delays in implementation are unacceptable in such important activities. For a long time, the Landsnet has planned a building 220 kV line between Hafnarfjörður and Redamel in the land of gurdavík, Southern Line 2. The aim of the project is to increase the supply safety and transport capacity, but it is important for the main transport system and link between Southnes and the capital area. The national network has the legal role of administering electricity transfer and controlling the electrical energy system from activation to mount points and is also obliged to run a secure and efficient transport system and deliver unregulated electrical energy with secure delivery safety and quality within the thresholds for user users, cr. the contents of an electronic unit, No. 65/2003. To achieve this goal, Landsnet must constantly work to maintain and renew the transport system in order to update the system in an efficient and safe way. Southside line 1, 132 kV electrical line, from Hamlin, in Hafnarfjörður in Rhinesville, is the only line that transports electricity to and from Southnes but is not available to other electrical pathways. According to a report of the EU energy forecasting and the future development of rural society on the Southnes, the demand for electricity will increase more quickly there than in other parts of the country. Build predictions including the projections for economic growth, projections for the proposed population, development of jobs, and a range of electricity use. It is predicted that the 2020 electricity use will be 209 MW and 248 MW in 2050. Spells it even. ... withexploitation of increased electricity use of data in Southnes, increased activity at Keflavík Airport, and increasing population growth. The effects of suddenly decommissioning Southnes Line 1 are almost unprovable in Southnes, with associated negative effects on home and employment. [...] The procedure is related to an assessment schedule of 3.08 in Annex 1 of Law No. 106/2000, the assessment of environmental impact, and already assessments the environmental impact of Southnes Line 2 as well as the Agency's assessment of environmental impact from 22 April 2020. Preparation for Southnes Line 2 has been ongoing for a long time. The project was at its time part of a much more extensive environmental assessment of Southwesternline, but the evaluation is now restricted only to Southnes Line 2. Following a sentence on the invalidation of authorization for possession and permission of the Power Agency for Southnes Line 2, as well as the rejection of the U.S. Company Voga's license, the Landsnet decided to perform a new environmental assessment, including the European Union. assessment of environmental impacts of different options. There are six of them which have been considered for environmental impact assessment. All six of the benefits are considered to meet the main objective of the project, which is to increase the safety and transport capacity of electrical lines between Southnes and the capital area. Thus, Southnes Line 2 options fall well into Southnes'direction in 2008-2024. The best option for Landsnet (optional C) is to follow the route of the main Hafnarfjörður 2013/225 building a 32 - km - line airline through Brasturm. It's from the rural border of Hafnarfjörður, and the Luga Company lies along with the Southnesia Line 1. Within the urban limits of the Hafnarfjörður ground, there is so much more than a quarter of a mile [1.4 km] of ground between Hamlin and the Brass. The electricity line is about 339 miles long and is estimated to be 2,329 million. K. Then all six options of Landsnet are in line with the policy of the world's world's world's world's world's main group of directors on high-voltage lines and landlines and their transport areas. The same is true of the main organization of Grindavíd 20103/42030. In the main organization of the Volga 2008-52028, a policy is set for new power lines to be placed in the ground where possible and where electrical lines are above the earth (airlines) will be aimed at reducing visual effects as best possible. Airline (C) options are in line with the main structure's policy on high-voltage lines and landline. As a result of increased geographs in the region, environmental assessment was followed by a further review of the potential effects of volcanic eruptions and detoxifications on the proposed structures. The results of this view are that the ceiling line is a much safer option than a ground cord under conditions where you can find in Southnes Line 2. In view of the current fire metabolism and lava flow, the risk is considered to be very similar to the options considered. Since the frequency of land mines in the region with permanent shock movements or agglomeration of movement on crevice bridges is considerably higher than the rate of volcanic eruptions, it is considered more appropriate to refer to such events when evaluating dead bodies and geologic risks at the Southnes line 2,◯ - it is significant that this is said here today. On April 22, the Agency published an estimate of environmental impacts. The assessment of the environment has shown that the design of a line with a landline is best designed to minimise the environmental impact of the Agency. So the most desirable option in the Agency's assessment is an option B along the Smokey Way with land cables where the line is planned for the Whale test. There the government has considered building a new airport, taking into account the interpretation of No. 11/144 on government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. The option B, a land cable along the Rhine Way, follows a ragged area along the road within the territory, but to some extent, it decays. That's why there's a new radar of 2.84 ha. According to the assessment report, the option B is considered to have some negative effects on soils, primarily in radar, with a relatively thin lava with a number of scratches and lava and at Vogahök, which are characterised by failures and cracks. Then, in an optional area of the Smokey Way, B is not in line with the description of the uterus in the main category of the Company Voga. It is estimated that it costs more than 300 billion dollars. Making a new international airport in Hassusun, while the cost of continuing construction at Keflavík Airport is over 160 billion Árni. According to a report by Eyjólfur's executive Rafnsson, who were assigned to study airports in the southwestern corner of the country and returned their findings to the Ministry of Transport and Regional Affairs in November 2019, the report was published. However, if a new airport was to be raided at Hagshesun, it would still be necessary to continue some structure at the Cheflavour Airport. The difference in the cost of these two options for an intermediate flight centre is large enough to predict that the necessary economy could not be attained to justify the transfer of international flights from Keflavour Airport in the Washing Land. There is considerable uncertainty in long - term predictions for the growth of air traffic that will be taken into account. In view of possible plans for a world airport in Hagzall, it is clear that a new airport would not be ready for two decades in case everything went down. For the next few decades, therefore, there are two options: stopping or slowing the structure of the Chefavor airport and inhibiting the growth of the flight and tourism, or continuing to build up at the Cheflavour airport and viewing the cost as being sunk when a new airport begins, when and if it happens. Whether one option is selected above the other, in order to perform the current activities on the Southnes and the future, Southnes Line 2 must be under attack. In addition, there have been a lot of ecology in this region in the year, and there is a high temperature in the earth that makes this option B now more limited than previously thought. It should also be noted that the current electromechanical reasons for using earthlines are responsible for the main option of Landsnet, while the main reason for the long limit is that the bioenergy production of earth-strings is multiple times that of air lines, which can lead to the lack of internal tension, with too much tension. A long line in the earth, therefore, can change the electrical properties of the electronic energy system as a whole and increase the risk of over-drawing tone and thereby overpowering tension. Only 10% of the more than 1,000 km of 132 kV airlines could be detected, and only 5% of the total value of the 220 kV line could be reached in the ground as determined by Dr. Hjörtur's Jóhannsson, independent of the party's speciality, by means of a earthline in the electrical transport system, since 2019 C.E. [...] Southland Line 2 is a national interest project, so there is no need to reenact the urgent need to act on it. An unacceptable delay has already occurred in the language that has gone well in the system for years. Transporters do not agree that the environment's inhabitants will have to suffer a great extent as a permit for this procedure. Therefore, movers believe that there is a need for action to be taken in order to prevent further delays and speed up the possibility of development and to establish, as early as possible, a warrant for the implementation in order to eliminate uncertainty. A respectable president. I just have to say, of course, that this bill, which has been in preparation for a few months, is being moved here today on the day that a week's space has passed from a great nature problem in the area we're talking about. The recent news reports in the press just now indicate that fires can even reach the surface in this area. How important it is, then, that what Southnes call for, the working life and the people of the South are calling for, and more security in the transport of energy in the region is already being realized. A respectable president. This bill's forwarders, who are beside me. Councilmen of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Brastr Níelsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Jón Gunnarsson, Njáll Truster Friðbertsson, Óli Björn Kárason, Páll Magnússon, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason, suggest that the case be referred to professional committees and sieges.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u9	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in state radio law, law No. 23/2013. With me, the carriers of this bill are cool. The members of Bristir Níelsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. The bill suggests changes in the law on the State Radio that includes the changing arrangements for the collection of radio charges. It is suggested that the fee be collected directly twice a year and that the main policy is electronically prescribed at home banks, as has been done by automobile fees, No. 39/1988. Modified arrangements were collected equally for individuals and legislators. An announcement of stress is considered to be an individual or a lawyer when available in a mailbox on the ice site. As a result, the collection of radio fees, along with the pressures of public pay, has been turned aside, and the amount of the pay will remain unchanged. Government tax managers and tax collectors of the state fund are responsible for the collection. The bill does not suggest that the signing of the Kingdom Message in the form of a radio fee be canceled. And I'm thinking, the highest. President, that's what people are disappointed in. Transporters believe, however, that with direct collections, there is an increase in normal and necessary support for the State Radio, both functional and professional, in the production process. The bones of collections contribute to, or should be totally unchanged, the public's better sense of cost when it comes to the income of the Reich Radio Radio, which is known to be financed in accordance with a service contract, by financing on the basis of sources in budgets that represent a minimum budget of the pay of radios. This means that we are not changing in any way. Of course, there is hope that this too increases the public interest in the nature and operation of the Kingdom News. When people find it in a direct way that the people of the country are actually paying their subscriptions, as I would like to call it, a radio bill, that the state radio is healthier and more natural for people to pay it themselves, but it is not committed in the collection of public pay fees. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I pray that the matter will go along with it. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u10	A respectable president. I hereby present a synonym proposal for the transfer of Raiks Ohf to headquarters. in the country. Transporters are down. The members of Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Liningi Anna Sævarsdóttir. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded that the course to take is to transport Raiks ohf to headquarters. in the country's area, and that there will be an analysis on the basis of the community's interests where it would be most suitable to build up the headquarters and promote the Rakis work centres around the country. By permission of the president, the report says: ▪Rarik ohf. is an official partner founded on August 1, 2006, who took over the administration of the Electric Force of the State. The lead role of Raiks ohf. is to generate electricity and distribute it in a practical way to the public and to the job. Approximately 90% of the nation's electricity distribution systems are in charge of the company, including in most rural areas outside the capital area, Smokeness and the West, according to its website. The importance of Raiks ohf. For the whole community, it is undisputed. Rarisk Ohf Headquarters. is in Reykjavík. Richard Ohf. is an employer who works in various parts of the country. Of these, about 60 work in the capital area. Much of the public institutions and partnerships are in the capital area, and most of the world's headquarters are in that area. As a result, the vast number of public jobs are limited to individuals in the capital area or in nearby settlements, the nature of the case. The IX. section of the core policy log of the Agency Party shows that the category considers it a fundamental right to allow people to choose a place in the country where they choose to live. To meet that goal, certain habitat conditions must be established throughout the country. This includes some of them. This means that there are a wide range of job opportunities all over the country. Transmission of public employment, e.g. At Rorries Ohf headquarters, government would contribute to a wide range of employment opportunities across the country. In this way, living conditions can be balanced and can allow people to choose a home where they choose to live as well as to prevent discrimination that distinguishes people from living. In the Convention of the Organization, the Independence Party, and the Left Motion of Government Cooperation, it is stated that the aim is to provide all the people with equal opportunities, as well as to keep the whole country in flourishing settlements. For that, there is a need. to ensure national access to employment opportunities and equal standard of living across the country. It turns out that you'll look even. to develop rural activities common in neighboring countries during the shape of action in this country. As mentioned above, Richard has a bad attitude. Over 90% of the nation's electricity distribution system, reaching Western, Northern, Eastern, South, and 43 urban areas throughout the country. This makes it clear that the work is extensive and spread throughout the country. Your community's base can be found. at Selephoss, and at the head of the Hornfjord, and at the south, and at the river of the year, and at the shipship, and in Ólaburvík. Rariak's main operation. will be held in the country, as well as all of its fortresses. Yet, there are world headquarters in the city of Reykjavík. The current position of headquarters is not considered to reflect the function as closely as possible. [...] The number of people in the region reduced by transport to the capital area has long been a major problem for communities in the region. Among the major reasons people are shrinking are lack of jobs and lack of variety of activities. Business security and diversity guarantee stability in population, attract new residents, and help young people return to their home after study. Lack of diversity increases the proportion of age groups generally most active in the labour market. This results in a decrease in population resulting in a decline in rural income. It is important to ensure that even the habitat conditions all over the country are under control. By spreading Kingdom work evenly around the country, the objective of the government can be closer to providing the opportunity for all the people of the land as well as the keeping of the whole country in prosperous settlements. However, this would only be done under the right conditions, which would be considered by the transporters in the case of Raiks khf. in the country's settlement.How many are there? I'd also like to mention that in unsubstantiated requests last night, I spoke to the highest level. Traveller, industrial and innovation of the idea of uniting the Energy Company of the West with Richard. Hence, this suggestion is further entitled to the discussion and how we will conduct it. Even if a business is owned by the government, it's not possible. We need to look at this globally and with interest in the whole country. Therefore, I propose this proposal and request a more objective discussion on the job board. A respectable president. Am I not right about her going there? I just look forward to further discussions with that committee. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u11	Mr. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of the Continental Council for the construction of a mental hospital, which is a long period of time. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide a health minister to start work to ensure permanent improvement in mental - health facilities by building a mental hospital in the capital area. They will appoint a professional and stakeholder team, including users and their caregivers, who care for basic research, the needs of analysis and household planning for the work, to add different advantages, and to offer suggestions for location and size. New facilities will be assured to meet today's demand for humanitarian, progressive, and varied mental - health services. The staff will submit their report and suggestions for Ministers no later than June 1, 2021 Mr. President. This arrangement suggests that the building of facilities for the mental - health services of the Land Hospital will be planned in a specific way. It is stated that in conjunction with the construction of a new national hospital at the Ring Road, the mental state of the Land Hospital will be made up of suitable housing, which will take into account the needs of people who are subject to mental challenges. Today, the function of mental field is especially seen in the old building on Ring Road and at the Hall of Old age. The house - to - house address on Ring Road is built in the 1970's after the construction regulations of the time, but the building of the Kleep was put into use in 1929. The National Institute of Mental Help has pointed out that because of their illness, the facilities at the Ring Road are not suitable for the community, so it is not to be expected for those in the saved wards and in the care of the sick. Klepp's house is gone, and the ideologies behind the situation are old - fashioned, and the modern demand for humanitarian treatment of patients who face emotional challenges. Mr. President. A 2013 surgeon's assessment of the health of a 2013 National Hospital indicates that many housing conditions are lacking and that these do not meet today's demands. Housekeeping is gone, the lack of interview rooms is undesirable for this vulnerable group of patients, the number of people who live in rural areas. They consider employees to be humiliating for themselves and their patients to work and stay in a demeaning environment. According to the surgeon's assessment, the necessary improvements in mental - health facilities and housing must be made as soon as possible. That was 2013. Since then, there has been little change in these materials, and it can be said that mental - health services were left behind in the health - care structure of the health system. That building was long overdue and in good condition, and may all of us be proud of what is going on there. In many parts of the North, important steps have been taken in recent years toward a more humanitarian and healthful environment for patients with psychiatric challenges. In this context, Vejle's mental hospital, Denmark, opened up in 2017 in a new building, with all indoor design taking into account the established environmental and mental - health effects of the environment. It is also worth examining the structure currently occurring at the Bispebjerg Hospital in Copenhagen and the Department of Justice at Sct. Hans's in the Horseshell. Long ago, it is time to take the same step in Iceland and the activities of a mental hospital at the University Hospital, where there is room for bright, wide, wide, and high ceilings as for an environment that allows for outdoors and exercise, for it must always be beneficial for those who need health because of staying for short or long periods of hospital stays. It is suggested that the health - care minister ship an original - research team and give up a report in mid 2021. Mr. President. After this synopsis proposal was submitted at a council assembly, it was reported that there was now a talk about building a global food center for the country on property at Klumps Hospital, the center for police, fire work, Emergency Line, Rescue Forces, yes, a global relief center for the whole country. That's fine. But we must agree, and realize that such a rescue center, with its harassment, can hardly be convenient at the side of a mental hospital. The location of the hospital on Slurpee has long been unfortunate to all the surrounding traffic. As noted earlier, both in the 2013 report as well as in later years, it is very important that patients who live there, both in the Justice Department and in other wards, closed up as open, have the potential to go out, enjoy oxygen, get out of the door, move, get some form of health. Unfortunately, though, there isn't. It's not at the Ring Road or at the Attle. This body of Congress is about the situation here in the capital area. The Akureyri hospital has a mental ward that must also be improved, but it was not included in this synopsis because this is the main weight of the national mental hospital. We need to go further. We need to get into the human environment for those with mental problems. It's a matter of life to ask that we get into the present, that we bring it closer to what we know today in medicine, when it comes to mental health. It is not impossible at the end to say that in Iceland there is no department allowing no drug treatment. Such divisions are known in all other countries and in most Western countries at least That those patients with mental problems cannot receive guidance, services, to cope with their non-drug illness in 2021 is not acceptable. We need to do better. We need to create a facility where patients who choose to get through an illness without medication can also be accepted. There must be a choice. The OPCAT agent's OPCAT report from 2018 also speaks of these forced treatments, including forced medication, because we do not have the potential for this choice. We're pretty far back. Despite excellent staff, outstanding staff in the mental field of Land Hospital, we're pretty much behind when it comes to all of this. This is the beginning, a council proposal to bring the mood and housing into the present, and I hope this council proposal will be carried out before the end of the spring council. And to say this, I suggest that the motion go to sleep. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's talk and this Senate arrangement that I can accept in many respects and agree with, but not entirely. I, a respectable president, would like to change it in such a way that we are merely talking about securing a better situation and building up a mental hospital in the capital area. In other words, I don't see the reason why it has to be the spirit of the Land Hospital that builds it up. To explain my case further, of course, I'm in favor, and we are to have a powerful and important government hospital, a Land Hospital ◯ College Hospital, and now it's been established for decades where it should be located. Now the conclusion is that the Landspolitism of a university hospital should be built at the Ring Road. I have never understood that all kinds of medicine or education need to be heard under the land hospital, which runs a unit, and much less that they all need to be at the Ringway. I have an understanding that certain factors are wise to have the same place and to have some compatibility, but I have long looked at certain beauty that has exactly been involved -- I'm going to name a smokelund, a rehabilitation hospital in Mosfellstown, in an exorcisedly beautiful setting, and I'd soon want to see that move, e.g. down to the Ring Lane, nor would I want to see that operation heard under the Land Hospital. I don't see any purpose in that. I have often looked to Klepps Hospital as well, and I have to say that I am raised on a carpet in full meaning, living in a small home next to Klepps Hospital. At that time, of course, some decades ago, it was an exhilarating environment, an awesome outdoor environment, and a lot of nature around it. But now we know that the area is very different, and as I understood a candidate earlier, it is, of course, talking about finding the exact new location where such a situation can be offered. I'm also going to mention "Vogg," a medical hospital that isn't exactly fired from the Land Hospital and is in the same place. Then there is St. Joseph's Hospital in Hafnarfjörður. I think it's extremely important that we consider building a mental hospital here in the capital area and looking at locations elsewhere in the capital area than on Ring Lane. I don't think there's any reason to get attached to such a hospital that it would need to be heard under the land hospital business. I simply wondered, " Is the Landsspians not fully involved in caring for other important medical situations? ' Whether it was a public agency or a member of a community that had such a operation, I'm talking about the cost of a mental hospital being paid by the government, by tax dollars, a matter of business management around it. I would also like to use this opportunity to mention the importance of telepathy, as I have talked about before in other matters. I know we've done a lot in our last year in our mental - health, psychological service, and other things than we can, as it were. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir came in so well on, done so much better. There is an overwhelming need to expand our ministry in that area. I think we also have to watch that telepathy and using technology and maybe thinking that certain innovations in services are important. There are always people who are sick who need to go to the hospital, but often they can perform the ministry without needing to be treated for a walk. You wonder, 'cause now I've followed a standby like that. in walks in the mental field of the Land Hospital: Why do people need to come and sit in a waiting room to talk to a doctor? Sometimes it can be done through telecommunications or by Zoom, which everyone may meet today, or something similar. In cases where people graduate from the mental field, they also often lack the rehabilitation and outdoor after graduation, and I think that there are great opportunities for them to perform such services by means of interviews. It doesn't always have to be so that the person has to show up and wait for the specialist to meet. It is possible to do so more fully through a computer. I wish. A senator's congratulations on this suggestion, and he just wants to direct them to their point of view. the welfare committee that reviews it may be a reason to take the words of the Land Hospital to be taken out of the first sentence of this concierge and to view rather that it is just being guaranteed and improved by a mental hospital in the capital area. We might then put it another way to figure out what was best for us, whether it was an independent institution or in a relationship with someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This psychiatric proposal deals with the psychiatric field of the Land Hospital, the central center of psychiatry in Iceland. Now the construction of a land hospital on the Ring Road, but nothing at the Parliament's resolution suggests that the mood of Land Hospital must be at the Ring Road, not at all, but that the services rendered in the mental field of Land Hospital will have a decent home wherever it is decided to do so. The decision that governments make to expand the ministry of those who face mental challenges in places other than Land Hospitals, I think, is just a great deal of good. V.E.G. Of course, a health minister has talked to her about it and added to the medical profession, but unfortunately, there is so much waiting to get in there to talk with a psychiatrist that it is absolutely possible to boast about it. When a new mother with a difficult postpartum depression needs to wait for months to get into a psychiatrist's interview, that may not be a particularly good service in a publicized system. Children who suffer from eating disorders do not find themselves in any group here for months and years. This interpretation proposal covers the housing of a mental hospital, which is only sadly a child of its time, and unannounced, both patients and staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists, and that's just plain clear. It's right here, and it's also very clear on the subject. A senator at the moment. Councilmen of the United States of America are suggesting this. Then I'll just say, "Okay, I understand that, and I can agree with a few things. But my vision would be that we would have to build here something that would be the mental hospital of Iceland, but he wouldn't have to be under the control unit, Land Hospital, and maybe it's the ideologies I'm talking about here. I am speaking to a hospital that is largely cost by the state and is serving a great service and is in a beautiful and good place that can be used in hospital treatments. But I'm just wondering, and it's really my opinion that not all diseases need to be housed within what we've called Lands Hospital. We could have another less professional hospital, so to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u15	Mr. President. Yes, I think we've arrived at the site where the manifestation is shown on the difference between Independence Party and Group Groups. The United States wants to support and build a powerful official health system that is equal to all. This does not make any difference, for there are, of course, independent psychiatric professionals in many parts of the system, and, fortunately, it is part of the medical profession. The organization also supported a suggestion that psychologists enter the public health insurance system because psychologists are part of the mental - health program. We need to ensure the availability of all the people of the country for this mental - health service. That doesn't change the fact that we too need a very powerful official system, whether physical or mental, and I believe that if we were to completely separate our mental health from the Land Hospital, we would suffer a great loss. This is our national hospital. There's the center. There is a considerable service that cannot be performed elsewhere in the most difficult cases. I think we're supposed to tend to the system that's in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. It's very good if it draws up what's the difference between the Independence Party and the United States, because it's certainly there and it's okay for the voters to realize it. However, the course of the Independence Party is that we have the best and most powerful health system that has the same access as that of the public. On the other hand, we do not necessarily insist that the Kingdom itself is the government that handles the business. In our Norwegian welfare communities, which we so would like to compare with, there is far more than is being done in this country by privates and private partners to provide services, always at the expense of the state. That's what I was talking for here. The land hospital plays an important role, I look up to the hospital, and I find it a very important unit. At the same time, I wondered, " Can a certain illness be taken away from there and put into the hands of another person, perhaps a government agency, but could be something else that holds them completely? ' Hv. A senator came into the clinic. Yes, we've been promoting the Psychological Service, but the need is even greater, and I agree with it. Then I also wondered: " Is it important for me to have some universal range of mental - health issues that provide the service, both local and regional? Then I may come into what I talked about telepathy: Can we further expand this service with a powerful battery of psychiatrists who hold our psychiatric problems and provide transportation to different institutions that are providing such services, to health care when appropriate and for independent psychiatrists or psychiatrists when it applies, so that the management form may in some way differ in some way even though the payment is always paid from public funds? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-03-63.u17	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly embrace this matter of Congress. Mental - health issues are the greatest challenge today, and they also become one of the greatest challenges we will face in the future. Mental health is a health factor, and studies in increasing numbers show that there is often a close connection between mental and physical illness, the brain being no more than an organ, and all of this work together. Socially as well as systematic prejudices have been a delight in mental illness for decades, and this is a bad story around it. The establishment of a greater focus for mental health within the realms is sorely needed. To form an extremely desperate treatment department in Iceland. Often, there is a tiny window that people see out when they are poorly involved in their consumption, as they are ready to come to treatment, ready to go to rehab, and ready to choose a new way in life. There isn't a detox department in Iceland right now where people can just walk right in off the street and say, "I'm ready. Now I'm going to take responsibility and change my life for the better. It's missing. In Iceland, we lose far more lives than in any other nation's accident. Still, we do a little too little. We do not take mental health or mental problems seriously enough. We need to take a completely new approach to our country's mental health. This work, in fact, has to start in school years. She needs to start at phase one and phase two. There must be early intervention, and mental activity should be mentioned in a study registry. Hence, this bill is very positive and natural to implement a targeted preparation for the building of a home for mental - health service. There is no need for housing, a human environment for people who are spiritually ill, and often it is that people who are spiritually weak are even more sensitive to their environment than others do. Often, the environment can make the illness worse than it was before. Mental health is developing rapidly worldwide, of course, making this field more medical than is being done today. All the talk about separating from other functions is that in addition to strengthening preconceived standards of illness, these patients are so different from other patients, and they need a different approach and treatment. Besides, a respectable president, it is not impossible to do both. I would like to wish a messenger and anyone who is involved in this matter to congratulate you deeply on the matter. I look forward to seeing it on the welfare committee again when it gets in there and I wish it well here within the council.
