ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-94.u1	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Commission's list of changes in bill proposals to correct the change in financial support laws to the management board due to a pandemic crown virus, a law on boxing power and income tax laws. As mentioned in the Committee, the Commission was contacted by a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Skatti, the Association for Employment, and the National Association for the United States of Iceland. In addition, there were reviews. As members of the council know, the deadline was unusually short. The bill is a part of government operations to cope with the financial cost of individuals and the legal rights of a pandemic crown virus. The bill stipulates the extension of the closing and repair functions. It is suggested that the maximum total financial height of sealing will be increased to 260 million. K. and that operators who have experienced a 40% loss of income may apply for a penance of resistance to other conditions filled, and back in time. In other words, they are creating a new step, a step 40 to 660%. In turn, I will refer to a written committee opinion on the subject, but I would like to note that, in time, an assessment of the results of the action taken, and the Senate has been agreed, has shown that they will be evaluated, and the report of the material will be presented to the council. That may be the subject of future events. However, I would like to point out that there is one adjustment proposal made by the Committee and that it is relevant to the terms of the synonym that part of the requirements involved in the concerted action to postpone the payment of individual and business debt will not be reached at the conference hearings made for the time frame in force, i.e. May 16, and in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, the Committee suggests a delay in announcing the annex under the directive to the end of this year. Then technical adjustments are proposed. Hv. Senators Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfjordsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy will sign the committee's opinion in advance, which I assume they will be aware of. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. Under the committee's opinion of publications, along with those listed here, Óli Björn Kárason. The members of the assembly, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the Björk of Brynjólfsdóttir Haraldsdóttir, Smári Bogi Mccarthy, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, the two last mentioned in advance. V.E.G. President. I, however, cannot help but thank the members of the committee for the way they responded and the work being done in this case. This was done in a subtle way, but I think that we too have successfully acted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-94.u2	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned the article as being under the opinion of the committee in advance. I'm just going to make an account of him or them because there are some, but they're not involved in the case as such. The thing that's really nice about that. Otherwise, I wouldn't have signed the committee's opinion. I find that there is a lack and a warning issue first: I have been experiencing considerable scope and, in many cases, an expensive economic action caused by the Korean epidemic and that is perfectly normal in view of the circumstances. However, no analysis has been performed, at least not sufficiently detailed, so that you are reasonable, who have benefited from and who have not benefited from the measures being performed. Like what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned earlier to suggest that such an analysis be made, and I thank him for taking the suggestion to do so. It's important in this year's journey that we make sure no one gets out of the way. My second critical point is that these actions, as well as my prior talks, are in many cases based on a random step distinction that was selected for percentages and allowed to be the venal point that distinguishes between support and no support. I'd rather have, and, as a result, discussed many times, that the scope of support was in proportion to the need, that such steps were not used. The third factor focuses on how the matter came about and how it was worked. It was clear to everyone who was watching this that there was going to be an extension, so it's too bad that this should have come in at the last minute and needed such a rapid treatment on a economic and business committee. It is possible to hold a long, very boring discourse on how the government somehow makes a completely meaningless time pressure that causes the council to trouble, causing the trial to not as good as it needs to be, and, in fact, it is simply remarkable that the financial and business committees have managed to handle this matter quite well. But it's going to be obvious whether something's been left out during the tour, it's way too fast. We need to be careful, and we can do this only if there is a clear line of time and things come early to the council, with plenty of time to get things done without getting done. This time, I'm willing to accept this homemade time pressure because it's important to the companies and the homes that benefit from this. I don't know if you can ask for a change in this routine. It's been like this all the time I've been in Congress. But we must be able to do better, and if it needs something special, e.g. More staff in the council, we just have to do it so that this kind of work will be done properly. So my comments aren't about the subject. It's just fine, I think. I hope there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-94.u3	Mr. President. As noted in the case of a historian, w. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, Chairman of what? The Economic and Business Committee, we are two short-term members of the Committee at a bill to legalize a change in financial support laws to the host due to a pandemic crown virus, a law on boxing power and income tax. For one thing, I'd like to be glad that we could come in a sentence on page. 2 of the Committee's report to the bill, which says, by permission of the President: The evidence suggests that there will be an assessment of the results and benefits produced by society. The Committee agrees on the need for such an assessment. Mr. President. I would've wished that there was a foot cut through the assessment of the effectiveness of action. We are extending resources, such as economic action, support of what the government has brought into this council, and the Council has agreed and reformed, the measures being undertaken to achieve the enormous financial damage that individuals, managers and companies have experienced because of the pandemic and economic impact on society all, and these are emergency measures, Mr President, such as the assessment of special property savings. How important it is then that we discern exactly which groups of such resources are most useful, whether they are useful to someone and to whom and how they will benefit. This is, Mr. President, a huge job. I realize it takes time to investigate and analyze. But more important, there is information available, and it will be a better decision for both the government and the Council, the legislator, to have enough information in our hands so that we can make better decisions, sharper and clearer decisions that will benefit those who need the strength or extension of the options, etc. In this context, Mr. President, I would like to suggest filming the present that has now been extended. It has been found to have the most useful value in large companies, although the stated purpose of the tourism administration is to strengthen the operators in tourism. You would have thought that it would be further directed to smaller and medium-sized companies in the tourism services that are about to bind in the wake of the Korean epidemic, that it would have been recommended to identify it before the decision had been made on the extension of that resource, and that it might also make an informed decision to tie up the support of some of the conditions so that it would be most useful to those who need it. As an example, Mr. President, I mention the need to analyze and investigate how these measures work and for whom. In doing so, we make better decisions and take more effective action. According to this, I and members of the United States Congress will support this matter, just as the council has done with all the action taken because of the Korean epidemic. And I restate on the fact that these measures have also been improved during the council treatment, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-94.u4	Mr. President. I wanted to come up here to make a decision, as if on any previous occasion when a so-called Covid case has been here for a discussion at the council, that the project has made an effort to pay for the street of such cases. The same is true of this case, we support its progress, and I signed it without warning. Still, it is proper to think that the speed in this matter has been quite shocking. That in itself is never good. But we do not allow it to take our stand for this time, so we support the situation. This contains a few things that look back on. Many of these were in themselves to be seen, so it could have been given more time. The government could have been on the move earlier. I want to last mention that one of the measures taken has been to allow the review of property savings and to have considerable funds on this basis. These are the funds that people have set aside to make use of after 60 years of age. Many have taken it out, paid for the total tax, and thus the government fund has had considerable tax pay on these assessments. It is generally appropriate to consider such cases very carefully, the extension of this deliberation, and then a growing tendency to resort in some way to national pension savings, a special possession, in order to protect the old age. We have a law in many places where there are sources of credit to pay on property and mortgages. All of this in itself is worth a fine price. However, it is a question of whether it has become more than time to examine carefully whether the use of these funds in this way is reasonable. If the conclusion is that it is in itself reasonable, it is in itself as if every other savings that people are supposed to have a provisional rights, then it should also be considered whether an equality is being observed in this savings analysis, in some cases taking out this pension penalty without taxation and in others with full taxation. I thought it best to bring this up here because I think it's a big case we have to consider in the future. Otherwise, as mentioned earlier, we support this matter.
