ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u1	We received reports yesterday from the Generals that Svavar Gestsson, a former general and minister, had died in the Land Hospital in the past, after a painful illness since he was unexpectedly sick, and suddenly at the beginning of the October afternoon. He was 77th year old. Svavar Gestsson was born on the God - given bank of Sperm, June 26, 1944. His parents were Gestur Zóphónías's Sveinsson, later a farmer on Fell Beach, and his wife, Guðrún Valdimarsdóttir, a mistress, and later a widow in Hafnarfjörður. Their youth band in the Darla Dajavar, Svavar, built an outing of retirement and spent time and energy building up the historic memory of the district and fulfilling the inheritance of the fables that came from them. Svavar finished a student exam from the University of high school in Reykjavík, 1964, and entered the U.S.A. School of Law and left school. He had already become involved in politics, including some of them. In the Youth Company, the Association of Military Resistance and the National Chances, where he became a regular journalist of 1968, when he just returned from the wintertime and study in Berlin. He became a national editor in 1971, and he served until he was elected to the council in the 1978 election as the Prosecution of the Church of America in Reykjavík. After that, he became a businessman for over a year and shortly thereafter, from February 1980 onward, the social, health, and insurance minister until that government left May 1983. From the autumn of 1980 onward, Svavar had become chairman of the Allied Community and held that position until 1987. He sat down for the third time in September 1988 as minister of education until the end of April 1991. Understandably, in those years, Svavar was among the most influential people in Icelandic politics, the grandest speaker, and the most competitive. After his ministerial work in March 1999, Svavar served as chairman of the General Assembly and highly promoted this hall. In cooperation and agreements, he was accompanied by a reasonable, forgiving spirit, and it was easy to associate with opposers and fellow soldiers alike. Svavar was sitting at the 24 legislatures of the 19783/4,1999 legislature council. He was interested in the history of the Generals and their practices and wanted to help them. He was concerned about the future of the Generals and the Generals and later the chairman of the former council society. In 1999, Svavar decided to cut off political interference and was appointed the prime minister of Iceland in Winnipeg. Came into his power to set up a good-looking cultural education among the Western Icelanders. He builds strong bonds on many of our lands, and he will long be remembered there for his pioneer service. One of his first works was to run by Iceland on the basis of preparation and implementing a celebration to remember that by the year 2000, a millennium had passed since its previous Western conquest. Svavar was an ambassador to Iceland, Sweden, in 2001, and from 2006 until the end of 2009, Iceland's ambassador, Denmark, U.S.A. Where Svavar served as a representative of Iceland in a foreign country, his work was covered with interest, enthusiasm, and hard work. When Svavar's public work ended, he began to care for certain cultural matters and came to many places, was good to cooperate, encouraged, but never left his share behind. Svavar Gestsson was a country man of his origin, as he often said himself, interested in protecting the country, outcasts and horseman great, cultivated a forest and carried out a vascular network when he was returned to his youth. At a young age, Svavar performed a radical left - hand movement and worked on it throughout his life, doing a lot of work in whatever assignment the movement gave him. His political success was rapid, and he became a minister at only 34 years of age. Svavar was involved in politics with life and soul, whether with his sharp pen, which could certainly be burned up here at the Council or at the Council of Government. Many important matters continued, especially in health, social, and legal matters. Svavar Gestsson was in complete cooperation, helping us to analyze the core of each matter, finders in ways, and resources to solve the problems we were facing at any time. He was well - versed and well - read in literature, and he enjoyed sharing that knowledge, exhilarating, and cheering in groups of friends as well as on public gatherings. Although two decades have passed since Svavar Gestsson's completion of Congress, we are still a few who had introduced him to be a politician and later an official, probably few more than the one standing here, and these memories recommend one of their closest companions and a friend in a long political career. At the council members of his daughter Svandís, who is present in this hall our exclusive sympathy now as she sees a father, a friend, and a sincere sponsor. I pray to the assembly to remember the son of Svavar, the son of Gestsson, a former general, by rising from his seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u2	A letter has been received by the chairman of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly for change in the committees of Congress, cr. Section 16. Congress, with the wish that Thorth Þórunn Egilsdóttir would take his place as the head of a economic and business committee instead of Willum Þórsson. The young Þórarinn IgngiIngi son of Pétursson, who sits at a council as a deputy in charge of the Egilsdóttir of Þórunn Eglir, will remain on the committee in her absence. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u3	Then the president has received an announcement that at the Special Assembly meeting of the Agency yesterday, 18th January, it was adopted that Willum Þór Thor Þórsson will be chairman, the Lineka Sævarsdóttir Anna would be vice president and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir would be the secretary of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u4	Mr. President. During the days, a well - known case of the government's waiting bedside took on a new form when the news came out of 2,000 cervical samples, which were unsettled into the basement. There are 2,000 women waiting to know whether the vision is positive or negative, whether or not there were any changes in their cells, cancers, or not. That's 2,000 women. The reason for this unusual list of waitings is the same as for so many other government requests left green, independent group and forwarding group; a lack of confidence in independent experts and free partners within our health system. The solution to the waiting list problem should also be the same as used in other known list lists. We know the examples of people who are sent abroad to the State's cost of replacement operations, with all the discomfort and expense, rather than the use of expertise and efficiency of independent experts in this country. The cervical samples are to be sent to a foreign country, and the list of waitings is due because this one has not yet been negotiated in a foreign country to receive the cylinder from an Icelandic cell centre that has been present. There will be highly educated and qualified staff without work, professionals who did not receive an invitation to work from the state when the service went there for a year. I heard from the news yesterday's highest notice. Secretary of finance that he was most concerned about unemployment. Then there must be some sort of unemployment other than what the government makes here. Tension is increasing, Mr. President. There is still six months to election and plenty of time to move even larger sections of our health - care facilities to a foreign land. I wonder what's next.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u5	President. The city's financial propaganda of delirium is getting very tired. The share of A-section A- Reykjavíkurburg in 2018 was 49% when the average country partner averaged 63%. By then, there was 94% Nautilus 112, Garvenity 59, Mosfells Town 84, and Seltjanes, with 27. As a result, it is withdrawn from the hat that parts of A and B have increased 21 billion between 2018 and 2018, but at the same time, the State debt increased by 185 billion. It's amazing. The next time, Reykjavík sent a distress call, of course, like everyone else in the country, out of a pandemic. The Kingdom is to be in debt hundreds of billions over the years. Of course, the situation suffers badly on all rural areas. In this discourse, even ministers and members of the city of Reykjavík are finding themselves in attendance, complaining about the bad business of the city, although there is absolutely nothing to suggest that the city will do better or worse than other rural areas in the country. Is it better in some ways? Yeah. Worse in other respects? Yeah. Is there any explanation for that? Yeah. Reykjavíkis e.g. with a much heavier load of service than other rural groups. For social housing, there were a number of social apartments in Reykjavík in 2016 4.6%, while Kópavogur had 3.4% Garville 0.7%, Hafnarfjörður 2.4%, and Seltananes 0.9%. You can't just focus on proportions and say, " Shame, shame! ' If so, a lot of other rural communities would have to be ashamed, but they would not have to take one thing out of parentheses. The overall context must always be checked and balanced. Some say that the comparison is unfair because Reykjavík puts social clubs in Part B while others have them in Part A. But at the same time, there is Reykjavík, with a much higher proportion of social apartments. But please continue with propaganda instruction. I'll keep pointing at the bullshit. I'm not even saying that the city of Reykjavík is a good business or a bad business. I'm just saying that the same criticism must overtake everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u6	Mr. President. A tragic accident that took place in Skatauts this weekend is freshly remembered, and the minds of many of us are with those who have hurt to bind and among the people of the small but close community of Flattage. In the discussion, there has been a lack of safe telephone communications in the West, in a challenging environment in deep beaches and mountains. Although more and more people are being built up today, driving, biking, and even walking are significant in summer as the winter, and it will increase the number of tourists in this fertile region, as well as increasing leisure areas. The situation in the Deep has become quite good and has developed slowly into a positive direction. But there are still major projects in the northern part of the West. I don't speak of the southern region. On TV news last night, the situation in GSM was discussed, and the work that has been reformed. It has been reported that in recent years, a secretary plans further improvement measures. They need to be quick. These are things that travelers on the highways of the country trust on in their missions as key factors. According to my experience, there is clear evidence that the situation has improved. Yet, as proved tragically during the last weekend, there are still blank spots. They must be eliminated as soon as possible. The same is true of radio broadcasts, which are still unable to remain on the way to Isafjörður. Then there's countless communications on the Horn Coast, including... In the country of peace, where there are thousands of people every summer on their journeys. There, too, the safety of seafarers who sail a relatively near - land route must be secure. Therefore, Mr. President, the government is encouraged to act quickly and put under these leaks, ensuring passengers in this respect a clear and safe way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u7	A respectable president. Selling a bank or a bank is a question we have here at the council. I must admit that last night's discussion surprised me somewhat, for I really believed that most people would agree that having a bank wasn't part of the State's role. I think the senators now have to answer how many banks or how much banks we have, or just what state is to have, what sort of business it is normal for the state to have. Should we have a airline? Many suggest here, not long ago, that the state would come in and share in Icelanda. You want us to have some art factories or macabaster factories? Reykjavíkurburg has decided that it would be wise to own a malbunny factory. We can also begin to think about food products, for it has to do with our national security. Maybe the state should buy a fish farm. It seems very unpopular that the Norwegian owns such a business, but when it comes to banks, we still feel very important that foreign people come to with experience in holding banks. Is it not true that we stop trying to decide who own and run a business that is obviously to be in the hands of a private person and focus on setting rules around such activities? With regard to financial activity, no legal group has ever experienced such a change as the financial environment in recent years. So here we're suggesting a safe and transparent way of releasing parts, just part of it, in Iceland Bank. There is no suggestion yet to do anything about the Bank of Lands. I think we should be able to unite... that it is wise to begin this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u8	President. In many parts of the world, eating disorders are a steady, growing public health problem. While eating disorders are common and mainly diagnosed in young women, men and all genders are exposed to this disorder as well as to people of all ages, to very young adults. On the page of Psychiatry says: A study of eating disorders in high school showed that about 10% of the students were affected by eating disorders, and 50% of girls and 20% of boys said they were worried about diet and weight. Eating disorders usually develop during adolescence and early adulthood. Unless they are treated, they tend to be long - lasting, often accompanied by a wide range of physical, mental, and mortality events. Often, eating disorders can manifest themselves in a similar way to an addiction and can affect every aspect of a person's life; communication, employment, financial status, and so forth. A recent multicentre study investigating the relationship between dependence and eating disorders showed that the prevalence of addiction is higher in eating patients than in others. Studies have also shown an association between withdrawal from dependence and eating disorders. If patients have both an eating disorder and an addiction, soberness seems to make eating symptoms worse and thus contribute to the likelihood that people will return to consumption. Eating disorders are a misunderstood disease. Recent British studies show that today the tendency for eating disorders among youths and children has increased dramatically in Covid. President. I want to challenge the highest. Healthcare Minister in cooperation with the minister of Education and Children's Ministers to give special attention to this legal class, perhaps ordering. A group of workers around him, in agreement with the good professionals we have here in this country, and they are strengthening our awareness of this urgent public health problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to make a little piece of style here in this short speech and commend as many as I can in two minutes as I have here. I'd like to start with the CDC, which has done a good job. Everything's been going well, everything's going well. It doesn't matter what standard is recommended if we compare ourselves with other countries; the incidence of newcommunicative, aggressive measures, as measured by death. This is done on a variety of measures across Europe. No matter what standard is used, we're challenging the highest or the highest on each one. Of course, there may have been some ambiguity, and some may ask, " Why this but not meet? ' And there may be a lack of the logical context of things. But everything has worked out very well. However, it is best to complain about how to handle the reservations and the removal of vaccines in cooperation with the European Union, but I can inform them here that I have reason to believe that there is a permanent improvement in the future. The same is true of economic arrangements, all of which have been fulfilled. Most if not all of the government's actions have been achieved or are in progress with very few exceptions. Regarding the economic situation, we can find so much joy in other matters. A few weeks ago, the government and we here at the council were happy to increase the amount of money required for hairy research on small amounts of money in the context that now we are going to be able to get a fur tangent of 20 to 30 billion after two smooth years. [[The president calls.]] In other words, there is good reason to rejoice over the positive signs that we see in those days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u10	Mr. President. I'm going to focus on women's professional positions. Recent reports that GEMMAQ, an Icelandic sceptical company, has won a so - called reading board where for the first time a graphic way the sex ratios of the largest companies in the U.S. market, said to be Fortune 500 companies. GEMMAQ for this initiative reached the list of over 50 of the most advanced sceptre companies associated with New York City. The company has also compiled comparable information on the sex ratios in commercial leaders in Copenhagen. There's a lot of great things going on in there. Marel, Sweden and Iceland's Life Insurance Association get nine scores of ten. A score of ten is obtained if the ratios of the sexes are equal, while firms score 0 if no women are executives at the company. Five companies score five and a half, which is called "right to reach, " and it's not a good grade for debiting. One company gets four, which is in my books. We have had good results in equality and tools such as what GEMMAQ has developed is important in the rest of that struggle. Investors are increasingly looking for equality when assessing investment options and jobseekers and consumers in the opinion of where they choose to do their business. Thus, having equality in its place means a lot of value, and respect will only result in greater growth. Equal witness, which was taken by the restoration, and sexuality in governments support these struggles and make it easier for companies to take hold of their equality issues. Then, in the United States, we see the Icelandic ingenuity, innovation, moving it up to a new level and exporting it to the landstones by sharing information to the public and investors. [[The president calls.]] Thus we can contribute together to equal rights and equal opportunities for people of all genders.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u11	A respectable president. We received yesterday reports that Iceland was one of the few European countries that had not yet returned up - to - date climate goals to the United Nations. I ask, a respectable president, what kind of inadequacy is that? How smooth can the government be in these matters? In the 2015 Paris Convention, it is clear that Member States should update their targets on climate change every five years, that is not difficult. There, the government simply chooses to return wealth. It is not violating an international convention, we know it, but it is evidence of a sad lack of interest and great failure in the administration of government itself. If we are to cope with the terrible developments facing mankind, we must simply take pride and be active participants, not receivers. And what are the answers to this mess with the government? Yeah, we're working on this, we're looking at this, like for so many years. It's a classic bad, bad, lame answer. VG leaders need to recognize that there is not much agreement in the government on environmental and climate issues, as much as it hurts. In the media, there is little interest in the civilian council and lack of political will. We know the Secretary of State is going to do the deal. The Minister of Environment will carry it out on its own. This lack of cooperation, lack of ambition, and lack of vision is their responsibility and will lead us to contribute freely to this important issue that affects the future of all of us. Returning empty is at least not giving a good witness, showing that something really wrong here. It's not enough to put the committees, advice, write reports, or put us on a waiting list. It's just not enough. The government has had the entire ideal period to show the cards. [[The president calls.]] We Icelanders are to lead a nation in the world's battle against climate pressure. [[The president calls.]] We are not meant to be a dragdog on ourselves, as the government is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u12	A respectable president. It is as if the government's new aims in climate have been overlooked by people in the land, but they have now appeared in this room and in the media. I would also like to agree with the positive words of the 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! When he said that he was going to thank everyone he could get to thank for all the good things they've done last year. I agree with that. Last year, social reversal is greater than anyone could have anticipated after the State's income completely collapsed in the crowning season, and thousands of workers were out of work. Businesses are damaged, and school jobs are under attack. A respectable president. Still, with solidarity and efficiency, remarkable success has been achieved. There the government's actions have been in charge, and the improvement period of income-related unemployment improvements has been extended. Support in various ways to a company and a home has been very helpful in this amazing situation. But now hope has arrived. The nation's vaccination is the hope that will hopefully get us started again. I'm sure it'll be less time than we think until we see this time in the rearview mirror. That's a priority project. Let's hope we have new reports of phlegming us at 25 to 30 billion furreds. It would change a great deal in the coastal areas of the country, making a difference to the fishing industry, and this would change tremendously much for sailors and marine workers all around the country. A respectable president. It is all of us to fight the Korean epidemic that has been here and to show our solidarity in this work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u13	Mr. President. There's a bit of a weird political situation these days. At last, after a month's bath and repeated questions by our Middleclassmen, it is discovered that we have settled in the trunk of the European Union, and, as well as perhaps more strange, gave up our rights as an independent nation in order to negotiate our own purchase of vaccine that could save people's health, speed up economic restoration, and easy isolation of thousands. Has the government by this given priority to protecting the interests of the people of the land? The members of the board are acting somewhat strangely and clearly that the presence of the election plays a major role. The government groups, one after the other, are playing solo in many matters, and the rest of them compete to describe their opposition to their speech. Every day, the lines shift in the positions of the three groups, which still hang together in the government. First, there is the highland national park, where even a few smaller things, though not crying at all, proved to be true after all. The WCC members of the government are merely said to be in the middle of the issue, while one unit administration after another proclaims complete opposition to the bill. The media, which generally refrain from taking any position, intends to move forward a largely united group of rural society with legalization in great opposition to many of the local rulers and residents. The metals of shelterers have been heavy on the independence watch, and a growing stream of government funds and open boundaries have caused financial resources to flow out of the state's budget, but within the government, there is a barrier to shortening the period of therapy. There we stand out significantly in contrast with other countries. In this category, we run a course where the North countries have disappeared, and Dana's prime minister calls for a mistake. Could the government care for national interests by means of these uncontrolled expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u14	Mr. President. Now it's time for state prevention. Breast cancer screening for the cancer community should be transferred into the most expensive health care system, hospitals. A hospital is designed to screen for this cancer in cooperation with the Hospital in Akureyri. This is not enough, as increasing in age levels due to screening from 40 years to 50 years and no solid evidence has been made available. During the past few years, an average of 31 women have been identified, and this must matter. These women are important. This transfer to prophylaxis as a result of cancer screening has not been successful. But it seems that the minister of the mercenaries is going to get it through. The women are expected to be screened into the hospital despite being completely free, they are not sick, they are taking responsibility for their own health, and despite the overwhelming, overloaded work of the Land Hospital. Most of us have seen reports during the past few days in which women and experts come up and express their concern about cardboard specimens, all in chaos at the health minister's discretion. Two thousand women are now awaiting complete uncertainty about whether cervical strokes show cancer or not. These include samples requiring urgent inspection, another failure resulting from the preemptive state of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u15	Mr. President. It was noted that the 8 EU-land transport ministers, including Austria, Portugal, France, and Denmark issued a declaration dealing with the inverse development of air traffic following the virus. The Ministers encourage the EU countries and the central authorities to make their mark. The claim is social subspecies, tenants, and e.g. The use of air services in a designated country other than the use of home bases to the business. This is not unknown but is increasing and in terms of reductions in salary, non-existent employment contracts, taximpliance and important monitoring, both technical and human components, i.e. This is simply a matter of flight security. Icelandic airlines have generally not participated in this kind of activity, as if we were taking Icelanda, or WOW, as an example. But now there seems to be another union. There is some evidence that airlines have run their operations, so there has been no change in Icelandic law and collective contracts for decades. It's going into a review of air travel layer, and it's now in consultation. It also stands up for us senators to ensure in the longest of all laws that the legal environment in this country protects flight security, employment security, and working conditions all in such a way that the purchase and cost of working people in the country are in good order.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u16	A respectable president. Yesterday, at the General Assembly, we talked about selling at least 25% shares in Iceland Bank, even bigger shares. The reason for selling it is that the state should not be involved in risky banking; the state should not possess a bank that has donated tens of millions of money. More than a year, more than 4,000 people have been working without work and about 6,600 without work for 6◯12 months. Thus, about 11,000 people have spent more than six months without work. A similar figure for 2019 was 3,800. This year's goal is for hundreds of casualties. These people must tell themselves to the countryside, search for the forwards of their rural society. Only in Smokeytown will it make 200 lives in the recent year. There are terrible numbers, and behind them is much distress and concern for thousands of citizens in this country, the rest of the poor, who see to it that they are headed for a poverty trap. The government must immediately stop looking at the situation simply by drilling the nose, for up ahead there is an increase of 2.5 billion in social reforms in the rural community. There is also the need for large amounts of money to make poorer and older citizens. Now, the government has to stop the welfare business, as it has been for the entire term, to those who are trying to score on the stolen and shamefully low pensions. Now it's time for her to turn her back on and make the money that's in Iceland and use it for the people. The children first, the people first, the family first, and then the rest, are the favorites of the Gangs. Unfortunately, it's not the motto of this government. Rather, she wants to sell the golden goose, the banks, to who? 1% of Iceland's rich people. We are under obligation to use every means necessary to save the worst, especially now while we are getting out of the viral epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u17	Mr. President. On January 5, the joy of sexual relations was shattered. She shared us as a group when the harvest of years of struggle appears in a way that is extremely simple. A national crash menu became the option of the Cynegrin/ ENVIRONMENT. At the same time, people who changed registration had to pay 9,000 bucks. The fee to national records. The person mentioned here was located, but on further notice, almost footnote, see paragraph 18. The law on sexual autonomy, a change in the law on the increase in the wealth of the state, resulting in this. I'm going to state here that it was not our intention to establish a special trans tax system as soon as we received this judicial hearing. Not only are transists able to afford to pay that price but they also do not serve the public interests of having a financial threshold for the rightness of their name and sex. Special payoffs are unfair and unfair. He casts a shadow of the wonderful justice that is in the laws on sexual autonomy. The Congress has to admit that we made mistakes, correct the mistake, and eliminate the tax from the tax right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u18	A respectable president. It has now been a month since a disaster struck at Seysendir, when a large gap in the settlements was breached. What a pity that no one was injured in that catastrophe! During the past month, a number of people have done an enormous, important work at Sufficiency, and all are worthy of great commendation. The still-waiting projects are also gone. Let us not forget that there is a need for endurance and adherence to solving them. The people of Seydir need to continue to be cared for, and all the immigrants that many are not there, far from extended families, are not to be forgotten. It is good to see that the Department of Psychology has been promoted, while others play an important role in this relationship, such as traveling companions, the church, and the Red Cross. The risk assessment needs to be reviewed, the evaluations of monitoring and cover - ups, the review of organization, the preservation of culture, and the construction of human activities. All these tasks require cooperation between local, local, national, and national authorities. How challenging it is to cope with the first few months of employment! Many things must take place quickly, but it is important that we take time, such as working to shape a future structure based on theynthesis and vision and solutions to our cultural value. The establishments of the state and rural society need to cultivate their roles in the work being done. We should not forget, though, that the structure depends on the efforts and powers of the Sustainers themselves, which they have shown to be truly abundant. Governments need to ensure that there are acceptable means of communication between those who have different roles in administrative and services and the people of Sufjörður who deal with different personal and community projects in the structure. [[The president calls.]] Let's go, out we go. Good luck.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u19	President. It's a bit of a big deal we finally get to talk about. I'd like to talk about things in a paper with this bill that I think should be our core. This is evidently also true of the government, where there are examples from the other northern countries regarding the arrangement. It's already Denmark. There we find strength for the special media of three different kinds. First, it is the power for editors of the media to produce editorials. The reason for this is no doubt similar to the fact that such material is strengthened in Norway, where the freedom of expression rests. This is a setting for the expression and criticism of government. Second, it is a newly created strength that is of utmost importance, just so that it is a competitive new place for people to practice the freedom of expression so that larger media do not reach a single position on the market and control the discussion too much. Third, financial support is given as a result of difficult business conditions. The Icelandic bill is about this point, aid from difficult conditions, to meet, as stated in Article 2. The bill, the private media, and to balance Icelandic media status with foreign advertising and social media, in which they face competitive challenges at that stage. So support for the difficult business conditions of the media comes from the dance system. The expression "freedom of the Devil " is released. No more innovations. At least I'd appreciate it in such a way that we're taking the worst possible chance to improve the media environment in Iceland. It is not taking any fundamental stand for what is a healthy media environment. Rather, it is simply an effort to shovel into the media environment that we now have. Despite all the changes that have occurred in recent decades, it is simply an attempt to shovel into the old system to fill into the hole that has been created by social media and advertising in other fields. In Finland it's quite simple. It provides the strength to build up operations with new means of communication, regardless of how the material is mediated, to develop new services, solutions, and method of manufacture. The newest route has gone, which is very interesting. There, however, it is in the mind to record a system of strength comparable to that in Denmark. As I mentioned before, as the report says, the policy of the Norwegian government in the media is based on the demands of the Norwegian Constitution on the responsibilities of the government in order to provide sufficient resources for informed discussion. The basis for expressing freedom of speech in a constitution is that it is possible to protest the government, the rulers. They try to create the basis for it to be available to all. The support of the media environment, not to specific media, but to create this expression - free environment, is very good support for the general support of the media. Furthermore, it is said that the main objective of government strategists to the Norwegian media is to support the communications of news, press media, and community discussions by means of the Constitution's expression code and democracy. Then the grants are designed to promote innovation in the article and the competitive media environment. New birth again. Strengths are two: There are the largest of the media in a certain area or media that is not competitive in certain areas - we are a little different organized than Norway, we don't have such a vast, complex region, and although we are a small population in a large country in certain respects, there is a different distribution here than between Norway and Sweden, perhaps less in Denmark where the distances may be shorter - and then are given strength to the second largest available sources in certain areas. Not the largest, but the second largest to promote competition, to make sure that there is no monopoly on the discussion and control of the discussion. There is also a possible improvement in this environment by increasing the cohesion to smaller media, by simplifying the reporting process, and by maintaining equality, regardless of the means of communication. Finally, in Sweden distribution and management grants for printing services and innovation and development grants are used to promote local media. On the contrary, the public's approach to strengthening the freedom of expression in our neighboring countries is quite different. The government will not take such a stand but will take a lot of money from the public to the current management form of the media. There is certainly a problem with the media in Iceland, and this is the way the government offers to fix it, not by laying a good basis for ensuring freedom of expression in this country on a public site, and not by promoting new media and promoting innovation to compete with those who have already been here for a long time and have their own corporate grants back and forth. We all know what that environment is like here. And then it's the other elephant in the room that's not in this bill, but obviously we have to talk in a larger context. It's State Radio, the governor. In recent decades, the environment of the environment has been very altered. It won't kill anyone. In spite of this, the role of the State Radio may not have changed dramatically. The program is relatively similar, some American material at night, and yes, it has arrived at the nororour, and so forth. But the entire environment there, and the opportunities that people have to pursue entertainment, they have become quite different. Today, the linear TV media is much different from that of 20 years ago. Our vision of what a linear TV program means should be changed but has not yet done so. And the government is afraid to take the step of asking that question. You can only hear that RUSH has to leave the advertising market. But what does that mean? I think it's a good idea, but what does that mean? Does this mean that advertising is collected in order to buy entertainment? Is that the way it is? If so, the State Radio could have more material for cultural purposes and, for example, for example. Work with European television stations as it works today. If the government radio produces an hour of material and puts it in a common fund of these television stations, it may receive an hour of TV programs from all the other television stations. There are additional opportunities to create and obtain materials to communicate, cultural material that these government agencies have access to. It's interesting in this context. This is not a mediad service, such as styled out. Entering Hollywood, where the entertainment industry literally controls the culture, it's originally cultural, perhaps through innovation and the like. They're telling all kinds of stories, but they're also doing things like that. There is only a different basis for choosing a subject that comes in there, something that we might want to consider on cultural grounds rather than on entertainment. If our aim is to collect advertising revenues is to fill the Kingdom News program with entertainment, we might begin to think a little different because our entertainment has been completely different in modern media. Perhaps we can begin to ask more and more about the cultural roles of the Kingdom Television and the need for advertising to buy entertainment. If so, we will be making decisions as to how we usually are strengthening the culture of our country, e.g. with other competitive funds, which, of course, are stopped by private tanks. But we're not there today. Now we're talking about a bill that doesn't have much interest in innovation, is not very interested in expression freedom or evolution but simply to provide the present media environment with some relief for lost advertising revenues in competition with these new media. There's no emphasis on innovation, not on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u20	A respectable president. This is where we'll talk about sponsoring special media. I cut it after a while. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of the second - largest media in Norway. The role of the media is to communicate material, and we might think of two bookstores in a small town in the country. Should we strengthen the second largest bookstore in order to continue competition with the largest or should we keep it as it is today and allow it to be controlled, the shopper taking chances, and if it doesn't work out, it just stops? Now it's talking about strengthening the private media. We know of the private media belonging to rich people who are just buying them for power. Does he feel that we would start to strengthen those who buy the media to get their point in and have enough money to do so and that we could drive them with losses and have done so? What is his opinion on that matter, and where should we stop when we strengthen our own independence?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u21	Mr. President. I do not necessarily recommend an arrangement in Norway where the second largest media is strengthened, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the Norwegians do not choose to strengthen the largest. This is to have a firm hold on the monopoly of freedom of speech. In fact, there is a measure of health, and it is likely that some Norwegian situation, perhaps not much more than two media are available in each area, so it comes out like this. But for the rich people and the media in Iceland, yes, there's certainly been a specific strengthening environment for the development and the like with the media. How they play together in the role of the government to have expression freedom of expression, a place to practice community talk, is an interesting balance that needs to be maintained. It is said that media must not be in financial trouble. If a person or someone else constantly needs to shovel money into the media, perhaps he can begin to define it as being in financial trouble, something like that can be done. But in other countries there is a emphasis on smaller media sources, the innovations that can then build up and grow bigger and independent from the media, regardless of how much money they can buy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can't help but agree with him. I'm afraid our problem is that if we start this funding system, we'll get into trouble. Of course, we also need to discuss, as he said, the large pink elephant in all the environment. We have a government medium that makes 5 billion a year on budget and 2 billion on advertising income, a total of 7 billion. At the same time, we see small stations, radio stations, and even television stations that can run into fragments of that amount. This media has spread, and for some reason, in the middle of the Covid epidemic, it had to be strengthened even more. If I recall correctly, there were 400 million more for Covid, and I ask: Is it not time to take down the company and take it out of the advertising market? Is it not enough for the state to have one channel, one channel, one TV station, and news? In Finland the media is strengthened where languages are threatened. I think Finnar, as indicated here, is the only ones who do this knowingly, they're trying to put it out of some particular subject, not just general because we want to strengthen everyone. Those with enough money in their pocket and with the media should not be given strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u23	A respectable president. I'm interested in the area of freedom of expression in the media and interest in the media as their fourth authority toward the State. There, of course, we need to consider that there is an equality between different media sources and the development of the trend and technology. That would be, for example. a very good idea for the Kingdom Television, which may now be in trouble, and more media accessing new avenues of communication, e.g. in politics. With so many categories, a campaign TV becomes extremely complex and difficult, and each group has extremely little time to talk to the nation because of its boundaries in a linear program. But we have another medium. We've got noises, which are actually just radio shows, but they're spread differently. We have footage on a site that is distributed in a way other than a linear program, and the program of these media and services can be changed in order to promote expression of freedom of expression if we dare just ask their questions and take them step instead of shoveling into this hole. In regard to a measure of financial support, it is certainly something interesting to consider a particular stake or dominant position in the realm of expression freedom. In a position of great authority, we would likely appreciate it so that the medium would not need support for that role.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u24	A respectable president. This is a good case that we in the United States support and have supported and would have had earlier agreed here at the General. We were not, and they may be aware that if we had been in control with them, this case would have long been through. But there's been some who've run aground on anyone other than us. Now it's going to the General and Education Committee and there we'll be sitting on the back. The committee brings it up better. Among the things I'm going to keep up at that job is that I want to try to recover things in the early stages of this case, to be in previous primes, but it seems to me that I've disappeared. That's in terms of conditions for management support. At 62rd. are listed as some conditions for management support. It's about the media working with permission from a media board for 12 months or more, being registered, and having permission, it's at least Three employees and sources of reports to the media committee and are not out of line, neither on pay nor on public fees, and on financial acceptables. But in a previous bill, the conditions were somewhat more detailed, and I thought they were good and reasonable. For example, in d-team, the main objective of printing and network services is to share news, news sharing, and community coverage. Audio and image media and other comparable media should be provided by an independent news agency every day to provide information or news related information and information on community issues. Materials published in the media should be varied and intended for the public in Iceland. This is a condition that makes sense and probably normal for us to ask for it when it comes to public support for media activity. The literature should have a minimum of 40% of the materials published in printing and network media and the same conditions apply to local print and network services, which are understood to protect at least half of the editors from the medium's spread site by direct or indirect means. This, too, makes sense to me. Also, it is said that one sixth part, an editorial published in print and network media should be based on an independent news and document source. There are conditions for certain professional practices, professional journalism practices. I might find it easier to do this from now on. Finally, there is one thing I'd like to have done in the courtyard when discussing the goal of the bill. The aim here is to meet the private media to match the Icelandic media's position with foreign advertising and community media, which is a good goal. But previously it was said that the news media should be supported and supported in news - related information and discussion on social issues as well as in supporting government grammar by giving private media temporary support in the form of reimbursement at a fraction of the cost of obtaining and dispensing such material. I would like to recover this reference to government policy. We don't have to be shy about it. Of course, it is primarily about strengthening the position of the media at difficult times in which the media may be more important than they have ever done in providing public access to solid information so that the public can form opinions on solid ground, not on the basis of myths or on the basis of lies. This isn't new. When I was thinking about these matters last night, I recalled that I had once read a fine piece of writing written by editor Jón Ólafsson, who was one of the pioneers of Icelandic journalistism, and may have mentioned him in some sense the father of modern newspaper life here. In 1870, Jón Ólafsson wrote a paper for free journalistism in a magazine he wrote to them. That magazine was called Baldur. It may be nice to know that Jón Ólafsson was at the age of 20, a priest's son from Kolesy site. He even writes.Unable to connect to POP server %s. (b) How can we be sure that Jehovah's Witnesses do not give up in doing what is right? ▪ A journalist must follow what he intends to prove true and correct, without allowing it to hinder him, although the common people may have a different opinion. The rolls are not to be like a trumpet, but whosoever will be able to sound a trumpet. With a word, a journalist is to be a adviser to the people. I like this wording, and I think it's all true to me. The media may not be the main source of counsel, but it is the natural word used by a people in the word democracy, i.e. The common people, the common people, the people. He also writes: ▪ What is the position of the magazines in front of the representatives of the nation, where the council is located? - Please note that he writes it in 1870 when the Icelanders had it. When the magazines keep their course and follow it forward decently, they may always assume that the representatives of the people will give due attention to their words. Thus, the reporter's calling is lofty and beautiful, and they might say, one of the most lofty and beautiful things anyone can do. But the greater, the more beautiful, the weekends, and the more exalted the calling, the more difficult and responsible things are involved. I can't just stay here and refer to what Jón Ólafsson says about the call of the reporter 1870, with the permission of the president: He may never speak contrary to his thoughts, nor be intimidated by his convictions; for he shall never go backward, though it mean his life, his reputation, his life, and his life. Therefore let it not hinder him, though the multitude of his favor is of him; for the truth is greater; let him not be afraid, though he seeth his love of truth, to make his friends his enemies, and not be afraid of men's adversaries; for the truth is greater: let him not keep silence concerning the truth, nor make a better understanding to please others, whether they be high or low, for there is more to be more. This is how Jón Ólafsson wrote in 1870, and this reminds us that being a journalist is an ideal. Being a journalist or a reporter on such a medium is a philosophy of life in itself. The reporter does not follow this category or the other class in the matter, this religion or the other religion, this philosophy or another. He follows his calling, a call for journalism; a quest for truth, a witness of the truth, and a report of what the journalist believes is true and right in each case. How important it is that people can pursue these activities in peace with political and financial powers and in peace only in the public ministry! I don't think there's any difference that the importance of the media for democratic discussion, the media in a multi-cultural community, is characterized by a multi-cultural, open, multi-sized community, has never been more important. Besides what I mentioned earlier in my talk about conditions I would like to see being added to my work. General and Education Committee, I'd like to say it, it's perhaps more question I'm asking, if there's any reason in these conditions to try to say that the media maintains the moral standards of the press. Journalism is a very specific subject. Journalists are a class, and journalists have their companions who have agreed to serve in accord with a set moral code, which is something that all journalists who want to live up to that name need to maintain. I'm not going to trace the code here, but it's pretty much what I traced here from the 1870 Jón Ólafsson of Olafur. That journalists conform to this code of ethics ensures certain benefits for the materials provided by that media. This ensures that those using the media can be confident that this is the channel that is known to be true. We know that there is a great deal of activity in the world about lying, about false information, about sharing oscillary stories and false stories and outright lies, and that is in the service of certain forces that want either to promote their power or power. Many people claim to be able to use the title of a journalist and a reporter, but not all of them live up to it. Only those who live up to these standards that journalists have done with them are also in effect at a government station. Before I stop, I'd like to mention a special local news service. How important it is that they can continue to function in their regions! We need to make the adjustments so that the conditions will not be too critical to create version rates and similar, thus strengthening such activities. I can see that I'm running out of time, even if there's still things I can't say. We'll work this thing out for a while. A global and educational committee and I look forward to participating in that work, hoping that we will be able to bring back a better and better bill from that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u25	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a bill for a legal adjustment in the media laws set here at the 2011 General Assembly. They've made some changes, and here's a bill for changing these laws to support the private media. That is the answer to the call of time, to the change in society, and to the need for us to strengthen the spoken and written word. This bill has been in the dough for a while, and it has eventually appeared to us, much less than the materials, and that is not good. But this bill is waited, and it's very important. This bill and its contents we support in the United States, even though they must now follow that it would no doubt look differently if we had been allowed to be at that table where it was written. In the media, there are many people, some powerful as a pressure group, surrounded by a group of political favors and protection, which, in fact, includes the entire series of thieves. I will speak most in my speech with the smaller media, especially the local media. They do not sit at the same table, living at a critical object in their proper place. The next thing they know, their interests have been dependent on this bill. Significant changes have been made, such as rain. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson tore a fine blow in his speech. The conditions have been met, e.g. the rate of publishing, and thus allowing more media to meet these management support, a non-growing pot. It's 400 million. K. including all the costs of processing applications and appendages for the management committee. Of course, the person most interested in this matter is the nation, the whole nation needed and to have access to reliable and enlightened media. That is true of all the people of the country. The traditional basis for most individual media, at least less media in the country, seems almost broken. There are a few reasons. In recent years, there have been tremendous changes in technology, the advertising revenues of traditional newscasts, and the movement has become different. Enterprises are developing a multi-changing, multi-changing, and different markets. National competitive media markets are growing more and more, and the communication process has become all kinds of. Advertising trades are increasingly being made up of major international companies at the expense of the traditional media. They carry a sharp object from a table in their advertising revenues, then bordering on a crash. Mr. President. There is no need for many people to comment on the value of the media in a democracies community. They bring news of the present moment and distance, setting up a wide range of opinions on popular and social matters at any given time, thus contributing, through their communication, to open up and enlightened discussions and to increase knowledge of society, participation and responsibility for which every welfare community needs to maintain and establish its organization on, democratic elections as an example. They'll fade and they'll be enlightened. This is of interest whether it is for the local media or for the greater media that thinks they have the whole country or for the rest of the world. Changes in the media's environment can have enormous bone effects. Therefore, the value of the news media of independent and free unappreciative media will be late overrated. There has been no mention of things that the media have to do with more, but it is the treatment of the Icelandic language. At the same time, the media play an important role, guarding, maintaining, strengthening, and protecting the Icelandic language, which is at an ever greater rate. Mr. President. With the bill presented here, Iceland is less than just following a new or unknown trail. Iceland, who is a close ally of the northern countries and in general of Europe, knows that our neighbors are in exactly the same area. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson tore it even. in his talk. Government action around the world, especially in Europe, has, in view of the importance of democracy and culture, primarily as a declared goal to seek to secure the environment of diverse media, and we certainly should do as much as possible in the small Iceland society. The large media in the capital area have been given much space during the discussion, and according to the bill, they also receive the part of the brother's support. On the other hand, I care more about the local media and their lot. I'm the best at home, and I know how important they are. I also know about the calmness of the serum that serves as a Kingdom publisher. Their endurance is not unlimited, and if it breaks, it will be difficult to return. There's still a tear in the window. We still have the opportunity to move, and so let us. Yes, the media in rural areas play an important role, both local and national. They tend to be like a portal into a community of people like a closed book, a book that does not live in those areas but would like to monitor the horrors that occur there. Despite the confusion and new technologies, they still have important work to do as news and cultural media, and to be an introduction site in their area. They draw out a special position in the settlements, at times holding on to protection from relevant regional interests. These media are in a hurry to pick up. The regional newscasts, most of which do not all keep together with the Web editions, do not necessarily include subscriptions. They depend on the distribution material in the paper form, and this is one of the important costs of the operation and business, and it is of its own importance to get printed material into the hands of readers, to subscribers. Not to be overlooked, however, is not just writing and publishing. We also have a fine network, a television station, and one of them operates in the country area, N4 located in Akureyri, and properly fulfilling their role. It contains not only Eyjafjörður but also Eastern, Western, Western, and Western, all over the country, but the lack of social coverage and recreation in the international economy is difficult, as is the general case of media management in Iceland. Mr. President. Private, neutral, and practical media in the country are at hand, and there is a danger that they will lay low in the months to come and that the sufferers will not be cared for. It would be, in my opinion, a shock and a tragedy to anyone who loves the free word. It is the interest and speciality of the country and its inhabitants, but it is also the benefit of all the people of the country that these media do not disappear from the market but are able to thrive on their own terms and on their own terms. This needs to be viewed by understanding and speciality, their importance. There are several factors that come to mind and are thought - provoking. For example, rural media such as others depend on advertising in their business affairs. Stable sub-feature in these substances will be maintained. Organizations and institutions in their services have agencies that assess exactly where to expect the greatest benefit of publication based on written and thought-outs. There, the dance around the golden calf is flimsy and consistent. Not necessarily at the top of a magazine are the regional newsletters. In fact, values in local newscasts are often greatly underestimated because they are widely widely widely distributed beyond their established and traditional source area. It can be noted, too, that the media in the country is also very thoughtful and, in fact, highly at odds with public policies such as government tax presidents, management, health agencies, schools, and other public agencies against local advertising to reach the majority of the national groups. It is far too much for such institutions, especially the city of Reykjavík, to serve all the people of the country, to be advertised in newspapers that are much less read in the country than are local media. This is why even the loss of official information that everyone should have at all times is going to lack. The newspapers are today, as the national editors put it, primarily local newsletters in the capital area and the spread of many of them in the region is limited according to their opinion. It has been pointed out and discussed in the form of a discourse and a publication, including the following: Here at the Great General Assembly, the need to increase the transparency of government property and prevent compression in recent years, and we are aware of shocking examples of how even a seafaring company maintains an unsalvable large multicenter for selfish purposes. More and more media are now in the direct or indirect possession of financial resources, investors or large companies on their territory or national level. It is also dangerous to develop. A respectable president. The sound of the rural media is weak. The publishers of the individual neutral and useful media in the country have become a hiker. It is in my opinion that citizens of the country and thus the benefit of all the people of the country is that they do not disappear from the market. The changes made on this bill here to 1. from the beginning on this journey, it will mean that there will continue to be three of the largest blocks of publishing work to up to 70% of the amount of money set aside for this support strategy. In addition, the smaller media will have to yield their share to the server, which is now accepted into this system because of the unsolved conditions added to the final stages. Therefore, in view of the changes, and if it should be well, it would have to be extended by about 100 million, it is 400 million today, and I raise the question to the minister if it is on the schedule, whether it is willing to take such steps and correct the course. Another option is to lower the roof that the big media can get individually. It's 25%, but it wouldn't be unrealistic to stick to, for example. 20%. Mr. President. If the government wishes to contribute to the continuation of democratic development and community speech and authority through private regional media services, I strongly support the highest authorities. There is no leftover education and cultural minister to ensure that the support of private driving, and especially the less populated media will be increased, but not decomposed, restored to the same extent as originally expected, and thereby providing a stronger source of support for the flourishing and ambitious media from the entire community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u26	A respectable president. We're talking about support for private media, the bill of Education and Culture Ministers. I have to say, just as it is, I can find this bill most to be cursed, it's kind of weird. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The majority of the media, while less than 30%, are reported by the Guðjón of Brjánsson Brunnsson 70% of this amount, 400 million. Like most people, the largest piece of cake they need is those who especially need help. We're starting with the wrong end. We forget that we should start in the right place. We're supposed to start with the big pink elephant in the room. We don't, I think, realize that we put 5 billion a year straight to RUSB, and we just have to pay it so well whether we like it or not, as well as another $2 billion in advertising. That's a lot of money. If we put it in some context, we're talking about in a ten-year national hospital or if we were building a social apartment, we could build more than 200 of these a year for this coin. I'm asking, why on earth? And what's the point of the state's having such a giant medium? In spite of the tremendous growth of technology, today is not nearly the same environment to create a medium that was once the same as in the past, and the media is changing. We know that our young people usually do not watch television on a linear program. Its exchange and TV ratings are through the Internet. Happily, many people have ideas and can run the media through the Internet and have been able to do so. But they still have to try it in direct competition with this large elephant, VOLV. To do things right, we have to lower the state radio. VOLAND doesn't have to be what it is today, it just needs to be one television channel, one radio station. VOLAND does not have to weigh 7 billion a year. That's unnecessary because the State Radio is going to focus on what it should do, i.e. to promote culture in the country. VOLUME does not have to be fighting the U.S. private media for entertainment or for the use of European entertainment. There are plenty of other media that handle it, and in itself a desperate struggle, as it is today. We know that we have such foreign media as Netflix and others who are serving for violations, just pennies, of what RUS does. They go abroad because the majority of people can afford to buy access to them rather than to the media, apart from the fact that RUS always have the advantage of being in the state and getting their 5 billion, no matter what happens. This bill expects 400 million who will likely be annual donations and may even increase. I'm afraid it will go as if it were for political parties. They start small, but then they grow and always grow. We forget that we are taking money from the public, and we never ask the public if he is pleased with the fact that his money is spent in that way. Someone may say that 400 million people are not very much in the context of financial matters, but I'm afraid that's just the beginning. I'd rather see to it that it would start to define who needs that money. Do you need a personalized medium that can be used by a wealthy person to gain strength from the State? We've heard it over and over innocuous that they're a burden on society because they get benefits from the government. We are under obligation to help sick people. A medium of wealth is not sick, he does not need any government assistance. That is why, at the same time we're agreeing to this, 400 million to the media, we refuse for a year's advantage to increase donations for food support. We could use less than 10% of what we say to the media to help those who have to stand in line after getting food, which, of course, is one of the most pathetic ones, of course, we should be more developed and advanced than we see people standing in line waiting for food, not just adults, but children as well. No, we haven't arranged yet, but we've decided that now we're supposed to help poor media, they've got such a problem. How on earth can we put things this way? Someone makes a decision to make a media medium and a decision to fight in the media market and, yes, the income has now drawn together in Covid. What, then, do we do? Yes, we still increase the donations. These 400 million are probably close to what was increased to VOLV because of the code, because of lost advertising income. Everyone sees that the state is in a position to increase its donations. At the same time as there are demands for maintenance, and the debt of state funds has increased by 300 billion this year and goes to 600 billion in two years, we think there is money for the media. True, we are helping a company and with all the strength we need because of the epidemic. But if we are going to start to strengthen someone, we should focus on the worst. Who is the worst in the fight against the giants? Yes, there are little media, urban media, national media, local newspapers. The bill says Iceland is the only country that doesn't support the media. It's just cool. Where are we going to stop if we start? Why don't we sponsor a grocery store in the country because it doesn't work? We've noticed that food stores are closing, and people need to go a long way to buy food. Is it not closer to strengthen it, is it not the next step? If we strengthen it, what should we do next? But as I say, I'd rather feel the need to strengthen the little media than ever. We must also realize that the word, as I said before, has changed the environment of the media. If you want to create a medium, you can do all of this yourself by using one computer. No more equipment is needed. We've seen the person try to fight with a weak mind, trying to get his point to the little media. But Davíð must be fighting Golíatur, as we have often heard. Davíð worked in history at his own time, but in reality he did not. As Golíat usually prevails, all the spears are in the hands of the giants. They have the money, they have the state behind them. Why does the State want to be with the media? Is it to keep a hold, so that some medium will be in control of the government of the day? That's a good question in itself. Yes, I will say so, I have seen it. The government's national radio is on certain matters. Maybe it's okay. Maybe that's why we have a giant Kingdom publisher, he's supposed to be a counterweight to the other media run by rich people who have other interests, the interests of 1% of the people with all their wealth. We are now at the point where we should decide whether we will begin this journey. I fear that as soon as we start it, we won't stop, that this will be a ball that's winding up. As noted, 70% of the budget should go to the biggest media. It's not acceptable, it's simply wrong. We are, then, hammering those who need least, and in themselves it is not to assist those who have the most. There are also very strict rules, and we know that there are now a lot of media, small media in a country, who are struggling and in some difficult situations. They do not have an elevated hope because if they owe any public fees, there are obstacles to their failure to take advantage of this. I fear only the powerful will really be able to take advantage of this. I can't imagine it being the point of this. I wanted to do it like Finnar. They seem to have found the gold balance in this. True, this bill is asking for it to be like the rest of the North countries. I hope this doesn't happen because they're strengthening languages and minorities, and these are innovations and, as it says here, by permission of the president: The aim of the grantings is to help the media to build up their activities, including by new means. These strengths are given regardless of how the materials are mediated and intended to develop new services, solutions, and production methods in that country. If we were doing that, we'd be, I think, probably on a better way than ever, by starting off with 400 million in the media and then from the head with increased funding for the next few years and decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u27	Mr. President. As we have seen, the objective of this bill is to promote the private media to help them do their job better. It is necessary to examine only what role the media play and how they have carried out this role, which is very important, especially in the times we are living today when we see, for example. all kinds of false news that have increased, and in some cases, how media companies have not used them sufficiently. It has often been thought that the media is the fourth power that is added to the three royal foundations. Their role is even. to communicate information and opinions to the general public. As a result, they exert tremendous influence on people's attitudes, so it is essential that editors have the freedom to direct their media professionally without the influence and attention of their media and information from owners and other stakeholders. However, it is common to believe that it is difficult to maintain a permanent independent media, since it is inevitable that they will be influenced by someone - whether owners, hosts, or journalists themselves. The media also have an important role in reflecting a wide variety of community and media markets guarantee political and cultural diversity, along with giving citizens the opportunity to participate in democratic decisions. It is important that the media is varied in order to reach as many angles as possible. That's as good as news or anything else. In addition, there is also the need to be careful about the media diversity so that the media does not depend on the hands of a few individuals. Various theories have established ideas about the great authority that the media have, including the teaching on the so - called program. It is the authority that the media have to paint a certain picture of reality. They have the authority to choose which news to tell and how it is said that will inevitably affect the way viewers view themselves. So the media have great power, I think everyone realizes that. They have the power to paint a certain picture of the day's realities and to influence the opinions we make, the news under consideration, and the way they are said to be of little importance. There are various factors, both inside and outside the media, that play into the way news is power and power, and when it comes to choosing news, the reporters do not necessarily realize for themselves what it really is, but they talk about it as if it really are not the ones who choose the news, but they choose themselves. There is no denying that the possession of the media and related relationships can have a bearing on how the news is processed. It is the opinion of foreign scholars in the media that it is inevitable for the media to be influenced and pressured from different angles and, in this context, we will discuss five major media influences. They are the owners of the polycenter, advertisers, reliable sources, comments of interest groups, and dominant ideologies. One result of a media market compression is to produce large, large media companies, and as a result, the owners of such enterprises are more often inaccessible business, with interest in other markets, which can influence news transmission of the particular media. Advertisers can also have a significant impact on mountain services and news assessments, where much of the media's cost is paid by advertising. Then there is the need for editorial freedom of the media to be replaced by the interests of ads. In 2008, the result of the collapse of the economy was severe. It is a common opinion that they have, in fact, failed their surveillance and information role in the economic collapse. For information on the state of the media market, see the General Commission report on the conduct and cause of the fall of the Icelandic banks. The media received a specific adverse judgment for failing to keep on guard and to perform their information in the leading of the bank crash. You can even say that. Based on the convergence of the media market, there was a strong connection between journalists and business affairs. The report concludes that the Icelandic press has not fulfilled its role as a result of the collapse. Because the media did not ensure their independence, they were not alert enough to possible warning signals. Most of the servers belonged to the same parties and owned the major financial companies. Although no direct effect of owner's influence on reporting appeared to be widespread in Icelandic society, including the U.S. because of the limited job opportunities in the media. At the same time, the committee provides the lesson we can learn from this. Among the things mentioned is the importance of moderate restrictions on the possession of the media. The independence of the editors also needs to be reinforced, making sure that there is complete transparency in the media market so that the real owners of the media cannot be concealed. This enables people to evaluate for themselves whether they are neutral in a news transfer or in harmony with the owner's opinion. Newsmen themselves in speech and literature over the years have suggested that they were subjected to an abnormal censorship of the mass media they worked for and that owners can corrupt the evangelical independence of the media. Mr. President. You could say that this is a bit of an introduction to what I'm going to focus on my presentation. It is reasonable to ask, " Am I going to be able to strengthen my system of administration?'The media depend on governments and create a healthy state. You ask yourself, " Can evangelical independence from the media and reporters be affected by an abnormal nature? ' The question is of utmost importance when we discuss this bill. I believe that it is also very important to examine the tax environment and to establish a link on foreign resources and access to them. The biggest giants in the market are social media. The competition between the national media and foreign groups is increasing. Then there's not to be forgotten about the giants at the advertising market, the State Radio, that makes 5,000 million. K. A year from state funds and then sweeps up the advertising market. If we look at only the other North countries, the general policy is, in most cases, to keep public radio stations that are on the streets of the government outside of a commercial market at the same time that they compete with private drivers and listeners. That's how Norwegian national radio is almost completely free of advertising. The decrease in income and extensive cuts in news offices and editors prevents managers from having the resources needed to turn to the public for real diversity in the media. Not long ago, Norway set up a committee that examined the media environment there. The committee felt that there was a great danger that the journalism necessary for public discussion could simply disappear before finding a sustainable operation model for the media. We can now see that there is a great need for us to figure this out. That is why, in the Middle Ages, our proposal for the administration of the radio charge is very good. It is simple in action and really undisputed. The suggestion is that a person can assign the price himself, although only in part. And this is a moderate suggestion. That part will go directly to the particular media. This is a wise change because it allows for each of the radio receivers, up to a third, to be allowed to make it possible for the media to be different from the state radio. Today, the total pay flows to the State Radio, and the payer has no choice where these funds go. That's the most specific thing to say because you thought it would be democratic normal to have that price laid out for the other media. The government has tried to continue this case that we are discussing today in an effort to strengthen the media. There have been dramatic and conflicting differences within the governments. Meanwhile, a precious time has been lost. Hence, it is very important to deliver a simple solution made by the media and to be sure to benefit all the media. It is interesting, Mr. President, to consider the conclusion of this committee in Norway, which suggested how to react to the media market there. Norway has a rich understanding of the democratic role of the media, where large sums of money have gone from joint funds for years to strengthen the diversity and diversity of the Norwegian media. It is also noted that there is nothing else to do with the economic foundations of the media as they do not change for the better but to continue handsomely on that path. This is the Norwegian model. The Norwegians want to contribute quite a bit to a real democratic debate. Basically, the ideologies of this new bill are the same as in the previous singles, i.e. Remuneration is the cost of pay and employment for journalists and reporters, editors and assistant editors, photographers, photographers and test readers. The reimbursement of 25% of these costs is no maximum on the possibility of reimbursement. Instead, it is required that, at the decision of a three - man distribution committee, the sum of reimbursement to all entitled candidates will be reduced to the right amount. Obviously, this means that the largest companies will lose the brother's strength, as was the case with the crown - virus epidemic. At that time, the highest sums of money were given to Arvaks, Visions, and Torg, most of them. The large media companies will get most of the required pots, according to their size. The requirements for concentration are simplified so that the version frequency or type of media is no longer required, only that the media is registered or authorised for audio or image media. In addition, there are technical requirements for reporting and submission on official charges and the like, of course, under normal conditions. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say that it is of utmost importance for the work ahead of the committee to listen to my views of media companies and the criticisms that have been shown on the bill so that when the work is completed, it is at the end of which the general agreement is made. Of course, it is important and also for democratic discussion in our fine society of times where this important industry is in real trouble and will not be seen to change in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u28	A respectable president. I'd like this discussion about bill support for the private media to enter a few things. First, I'm going to go on the bill itself briefly. Then, in general, I'm going to discuss the position on this market, as well as the proposals of our members of the Central Party, which aim to strengthen the position of the Special Relations and the manufacturer's products, and at the end, to try to tie it together and see how I feel it would be reasonable to do so. A top-of-the-art Board of Education was holding this job. The bill is available and has a pattern similar to that of a year ago. What I'd like to say about this is that it all depends on another development. According to the B team, pars. The bill will be set up by the President's permission of a distribution committee, as it says: ▪ A secretary appoints a three - man distribution committee to support the private media. The nominees shall be designated by a state accountant and shall be met by one member of the national law, one a valid accountant, and third having expertise in the media or media rights. This approach seems to me all of us to suggest that this is a project that would be as much of a job as possible and work with a simple operation on an Xerox desk. I'm skeptical that it's wise to form a new government committee that will have a follow-up, I'm not gonna say censors, I don't want to use that concept, but anyway, the intervention of the administration in this case, instead of keeping the rules simple and transparent, and then having the possible payment through the tax. Of course, they alone enjoy strengthening according to this rule under the surveillance of a media committee. It is also different whether it is reasonable to assume that the committee will be eternal. I think we should take a special look if there's any simpler way to achieve this goal, if that's the way it's going to be. In this regard, it may be appropriate to mention and remind us that there were serious doubts in a particular group of members of the council when the case was recommended here at the last assembly. It's interesting to me, it could change before the discussion is over, that there's no member of the Independence Party on the rosary. Then you begin to suspect that it has been beat up and that it has been negotiated between the government groups that the case will be done in this suit, and then, of course, they'll just be swallowing in that context. This may remind us of a few days ago that the government groups have reached some kind of legal agreement on the big issues that need to be resolved. It has been referred to as the Constitution, the highland park, and the sale of Iceland Bank, and I wonder if the Agency will not receive this media bill in that box. It would be a pleasure to see members of the council here, especially those who have been most prominent in these matters and have spoken fairly well at previous levels - that is, perhaps, the frustrating part at the moment, to see that at the speaker's list, none of those who have put their tops in the motion and speak wisely. It is often that those who are most prominent in their conduct may not speak out of the most knowledge or understanding of things, but they are not so in the case of these senators, and I would especially like to mention them. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson, I would have liked to hear his position on this matter as it is now. But back to the bill. I will comment on this development with the decommissionment committee. A third party is to have expertise in the media or media rights, so there is a smaller part of this group required to have knowledge or understanding media over their heads, so I think it is possible to take less established ways to this end. Another factor I would like to mention is the fact that the availability and availability of new parties to markets and the like are important goals in themselves. 2nd Team d-joins 2. gr. is reviewing conditions for management support, which says, by permission of the President: The media should be registered or authorised according to the IV audio or video media. section. The media should also have worked with permission from a media board for 12 months or longer. Of course, for this duration, it can be a perfunctory viewpoint. Then, shortly thereafter, the president's permission says: ▪ If you develop a business support application for the next year after March 31st, you should dismiss it. According to this principle, on April 1, only April 1, let's not give us a chance to support until 223 C.E., over one and a half years after being founded, since it has not worked continuously for 12 months at March 31, the next year. In this way, the specified new medium is released over a year as a potential sponsor. This is what I think the committee needs to look into in particular. Of course, I think there are improvements, in view of the first donation a year ago, that there can be support for the candidate's ability to become up to 25% of the budget for the project. It was a lower reference rate. If I remember correctly, this doubles the roof that I think is necessary because the most elaborate editors bear the high cost of reporting and processing in this market. Several words about the motive and need of the law in a report. I'm just really impressed that the bill can be written with the bill, and it's able to move completely past the role or effect of The Kingdom Radio on this market. It says in the chapter on the motive and need of legislation, with the permission of the president: During the past few years, some of the world's highly developed media has deteriorated. There are many reasons for this development, such as rapid technological change and aggravating the media through the changing commercialism of companies on the market. At that time, the international media rivalry with international media has increased over the past few years because of the wide range of communication methods. The trade of advertising is increasing in the number of foreign companies, such as Internet and social media, which have led to a reduction in advertising sales from the traditional media. It is a remarkable achievement to get through this chapter without referring to a single word of the Kingdom Hall position on this market. Those who listen to some of the views expressed by private media in these topics must realize that the elephant in the living room, so to speak, is the Kingdom Radio on this market all of us. It has a higher position for the radio fee in the first place and the right of about 5 billion a year for the Agency to go through it, and as the Agency vacuums up the advertising market, as it is sometimes said, and goes up to 2 billion more. It's a scene I feel like it's a problem with. A global and educational committee must specifically enter in on the implementation of this matter, that action is being made that the state of the Kingdom News on the market will be linked to this issue. I don't think it's acceptable to handle this case as it is and then plan to start shooting at whether to take the TV out of a commercial market or to squeeze into advertising scenes or whatever the way of it would be. This needs to be examined in context and overall because such pieces cannot be controlled successfully. I'm not going to go through any more of the bill in my speech but I'm going to leave it here and I'm going to ask for the General and Education Committee to discuss these aspects of their treatment. I'd like to briefly introduce a proposal made by the Central Party members, which, in our opinion, is part of the solution to the problem facing this highest market situation, which, of course, is all an empty case when discussing the position of the private servers of any sense. In short, our proposal in the Middle East is that the taxpayers will be authorized at least one third of the radio fees each year to the medium that the person chooses. With this, I think we'll both be seeing the motivation for both production of materials, its quality, and that each media would look after its clientele, as it were, those who observe and read and watch the material made there. It would also be a direct link to what the common people really want in these matters. There could be considerable support for the private editors, and I think that those editions, the media, which would be most likely to be in these areas, are the local news media, which carry out local news and closer to the environment. They probably have a hawk in the corner and a lot of people in their close-up environment who want to support this person's publishing activity with a third of each year's radio charge. These are the sums that are important. Then a media report from 2018 must be restarted. The committee returned a report in January 2018, led by Björgvin, son of Guðmundsson. All these factors, in my opinion, need to be discussed in the General and Education Committee with the idea that we will see a complete picture of how this environment will develop in the near future. We have to look at this in a much larger context because if we finish this case the way it is and then we're going to start looking at some other factor, I'm afraid it'll be a long way up there so that the solutions that may be much simpler, clearer and clearer than those that are being suggested will be at tables. In this context, I'd like to mention the possibility of that, for example. that the remuneration tax from subscribed printing servers and possibly other media sources will be taken away, or reimbursed, that insurance pay from employees of the media will be canceled or reimbursed, and so on the point I mentioned earlier, that the state radio activity at the commercial market will be limited to a certain amount or the Agency will be taken entirely from that market. The taxation of advertising in foreign networks will then be investigated. These are all points, and certainly more, mentioned in the media committee report at the time, and the reviews of this issue have been made in earlier stages. I'm urging men to consider this matter in a larger context. The way this is going is all about, and over it is a year of political intervention, although I think I know that this is not the meaning of it. But it's just the way it is done and it works that it's all empty. I wish for a benefit of the General and Education Committee in the handling of this case and I think there may be another talk in the discussion later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u29	V.E.G. President. This case is presented for the second time, and it appears to be in a similar uniform, and most of it seems to me that now, not personally, the Ministry of Education will assign the sponsors referred to as a special distribution committee. I'm going to go over the bill lightly as such, but I'm going over the state of the media market and the influence of the media, which are mad. As I've probably said before, I think that in nothing has ever been the same in recent years. We could take any year, Mr. President. We could take the last 100 years, last ten years, five years, 50 years, and it's not as much of a trend as it is in media or media as it is now. It can be said that one person who has access to a network or who can otherwise connect to, outlets, picks, etc., has become a multicenter and influential person. So the situation has changed completely from the past. It seems to be the custom of this government that when simple options are offered, people always choose the greater and more complex advantages. This applies, e.g. ... aboutthe great interest in the government to turn Iceland's highlands into a state agency, which is expected to be one of the largest government agencies in Iceland. Men have published some list of what organizations they want to replace, including the New World Translation Center, of all people. Its replacement is to be replaced by a private partner belonging to the State, since we have so good experience with such government operating modules or the other. Here we are discussing issues of strength to free media. The media are to be strengthened by 400 million each year. It's because of a familiar number. We can compare that number with the financial resources and earnings of the biggest competitor, the biggest actor in the field, RV Ohf., which has about 5 billion on budget plus 2 billion in advertising revenues. That didn't do it this time, Madam President. A cry came from the Top of the World, and it was answered from this house by about 400 million during the financial deduction, on top of the 5 billion, on top of the $2 billion in advertising. It is also a matter of observation that with the bill it is the whole of the media in Iceland. They're making all the media, i.e. those who are strengthened by the bill, dependent on the government, and on the government at a time. I've felt that this was a serious development, and I've been worried about her. It seems that there are others. I'd like to read this lung from the news page today, after the Haukur Örn Birgisson. It says, by permission of the president: At dawn, Iceland's Press Association stated that the lowest point in the history of the Icelandic media was reached. The motive was Stop 2 decision to stop the news broadcasts. The serious media problem in this country has been faced for years, and the competitiveness of the media is hopeless for the stately media company. The disease is known, and the cure should be obvious. Instead of attacking the cause of the disease, however, the government intends to cover the wounds with patches. It will not stop the bleeding. The problem of the media cannot be solved by providing them with the support of their government funds, making them dependent on public funds. To have them send in an application every year to a government intervention committee. This will not promote free and independent media coverage. On the contrary. To argue that government grants will not affect the media editors, their position on issues, and their coverage of them is clean. Anyone dependent on the government will behave differently against power - there is no science. You will not bite the hand that feeds you. With all due respect to Channel 2, the low point of the Icelandic media is not that news of the station will remain on a locked program, but that it is in order to turn the Icelandic media into reformers. No doubt this is well - meant - but it will come out in the opposite direction. And then he finishes his reading. I could have almost written this fist of my own, Madam President, because he echoes completely the opinions I've had and has against this bill. I have to say one more thing before talking about the media market in general. I'm surprised to learn that in conditions for management support listed in section 2. ..... what was once 62. G., no requirement for any government support media to have good language. There is no requirement for the native language to be made high under the head, but these are only general tax laws and tax issues. That is why I agree with it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason earlier said that this distribution committee may, in itself, belong at the IRS. Of course, there is an easier way to balance the difference in the Icelandic media market. Middle-class people have been talking to her very often. It is the way, as our proposal says, that each Icelander who pays a radio fee can name the multicenter he charges at one-third of that price. This is known at other stations, Madam President. Those who do not wish to pay an application to the National Church can claim their second charge. I'm going to say again what I've said several times in this chair, Madam President, in effect, that Iceland and I are born into two institutions. We are born into the National Church, and we are born into the RUS. The difference between these two is that we can resign from the National Church, but we cannot resign. With good or evil, let us pay our forced subscriptions all our life, this nose tax, from whether we use our service or not, from whether we are satisfied with material things or not. Now, I'm going to say again, because I mentioned here the terms of Motherhood, that it's very disappointing how the State Radio and its staff treat their native tongue. I must mention, Madam President, that in the state radio staff, nuV Ohf, a special language partner. The person who comes to my mind most because he, or she, invented something about Friday that I don't have left. I must have misunderstood completely, Madam President, the purpose of the operation of the U.S. National Radio Advisor. It may seem that what I say now is spoken from the back of a gray man, and it must only be, because I believe the language Icelandic makes us a nation above all else. That is why the institution of culture, which might be the most important of all - is a failure. I'm going to say as a private examination here, Madam President, and that's why I'm still moving on to what I said earlier, that there's no need for a native to support the free media, that the people who write on the web, write in the papers, talk on the radio, teach us Icelandic every day. If these people are not well - written and spoken in English, as I often think they are - I just have to admit that I often think they are. It's actually reading, e.g. In fact, the Internet services, which are quickly updated every day and do not seem to be in any way critical, do not seem to be overread by anyone with good language. There is one important thing that is missing in the need to support the free media. The greatest disappointment is that humans do not go the way that was most successful and effective and that was accepted in this quoted writing that I read earlier, i.e. ... thatwe'llbe equipped to operate on the National Radio, PRIV Ohf. That is what happened, and I reasoned earlier, that in the budget debate there was still an increase in contributions to that community. I don't remember other budgetaries getting as good a step in the budget. It seems so bad, Madam President, that I am about to be finished with the time that I am given in this discussion at this time. So I need to think again, and I'll do it later. There are many things I cannot say on this matter. I still say that I think our simple route to the Middle Class would have been the most successful way to provide private media protection or free media protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u30	President. I just wanted to have a place to say. A senator of his greatest kindness on one point he mentioned, that all Icelanders were born on the one hand of the State Radio and the National Church, if I recall correctly. Isn't that right? Now a man who was not born into the National Church and who has never been a member of the Church but is glad to have been born into the Kingdom Radio as well as any other service that the State provides to its citizens through the drinking. Are we not all flocking to the health system that all of us are paying for? Aren't we all going to infiltrate the education system that we all pay for? Aren't we all flocking into the National Theater that we all pay? And the dance party, Iceland's Symphony Orchestra, National theaters that enjoy state support, etc.? [[For example: School?]] School? That's exactly what I called the education system. Aren't we all in this service? The only difference in my mind, Mr. President, is that the funding of the State Radio is by a different route than the rest, the rest of the cultural or democratic activities, if we look at that part of it. It's a special price for every Iceland to pay for it, but on the ground it's exactly the same thing. We will pay the money to the government that will take it and give it to all, including those who do not pay. So we're born into society and national radios are part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u31	Madam President. Thank you. A senator sincerely for this answer, which was striking and like him. There was only one thing that may have been wrapped up just for the reason. Senator. I spoke of being born into the devices we can tell us about, you see, the National Church that truly provides community service and truly renders services to those in need. What was missing was missing into all the rest of it. A senator is that the National Hospital and the Health Organization are not ohf. Although we pay 10,000 bucks for each ass to sit in a symphony concert, Symphony is not an ohf either. So in that sense, this is not comparable. The difference may be that if we go to theaters or at symphony concerts, we pay part of the cost of the cultural event that we experience and that we have the authority to buy a ticket or a year card or what we want to do or not do it. However, the person sitting at home or in the car who never turns on the Kingdom Radio still pays full price for a program he does not receive because he is forced to, and there is no way out but six feet down possibly. [[Up front.]] It's the difference that's in there, and that's why they're listed. A senator did not completely match himself, though I understand his attempt to try to make her comparable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u32	President. Me and what. A senator simply has to disagree about this, which would not be the first time that we are not completely united. I thought why. You see, a senator lets it out of my speech, which is the key to it, which is to say that it is comparable in the exception of financing, something in which I was shocked. Whether or not I ever go to Skaftfell on Soydell, that's where my tax dollars go, fortunately. I wish there was a bigger amount to go there. No matter whether I go to a symphony concert, I get a part of my income there, it's great. No matter whether I used myself all the roads that have been parked all over the country - I'll probably never take it from now on to a elementary school in Isafjörður, but I'm impressed that he's been funded at his time through government funds and taxes. I think it's very nice to have all kinds of service around the country that I'm never gonna use, maybe not fit for, and getting too old, or just because I live elsewhere, being financial. I don't have to enjoy all the things that the state finances through taxes. The government radio is financed in another way. Perhaps there is something we should discuss at some point. It should be checked. is it really a good shape? Should it be just like Symphonian, like the National Theater, etc.? I say, Mr President, I'm not suggesting this, but I think this question is worth asking. But the service is no different from the service of the National Theater, but the service of the Symphony is the service of Skaftfells cultural centers, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u33	Madam President. Hv. When a senator said that we would not agree on all things, he hit the nail. But there was one thing I cut off in a lawsuit or two. A senator in both answers, that it was a law for the State to expel the radio. It's not a law. [[Up front.]] It's not a law. On one occasion, the State also ran the State Department because it felt that it was not enough to run a radio but that it would also have to run shops for the radio. But it's very good to have a good time. A senator should take the Polish on the hill that we should discuss the culture of the state, I am totally in it, very well, and including this. But as I say, it's not a law to run a government radio. This enterprise, which cannot be called an institution anymore because there is a partner, has not changed since 1930, except for technology. There's a TV, and then there's a color TV, and there's a stereo parts, and something like that, but the foundation of the business of this company hasn't changed to a point since 1930. Hence, whether they are in the ministry or not, whether they care for the ministry or not, perhaps it is that this company is sucking enough money from a government fund every year. Maybe that's the key. We need to take this discussion much further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u34	President. We are here discussing cases that support private media. I'm going to conduct my case in such a way as to deal primarily with the media support, for all too often such discussions are drawn into a clear discussion about the Kingdom topic, ranging from its existence to whether it should be alcohol advertising or commercial advertising, etc. I'm looking at that situation this way, and I'm going to finish my case on state radio, that all the North countries support private media, whether advertising is on the state media or not. In other words, all the countries that we compare with us see it as a natural thing to support the management of exotic media. I supported a bill on how to support the media business when it appeared last year, talked a lot about it, and would have liked it to have been accepted because I know that the media is a very difficult business. I also know that if it was difficult to deal with the viral epidemic, then it is much more difficult. So it is urgent that the lawgiver be given the job of accepting this bill, putting it in their normal ethic treatments, make changes if people think it is necessary, but put it through. I'd rather be backtraced, i.e. It would be supported from the end of the New Year. Maybe it comes out on one thing when the amount is alone. I don't have to worry about it because it's not the most advanced bill of all the bills on how to support the private media. I think it's very hard to find a way that everyone can accept about supporting the private media, apart from the fact that not everyone agrees that it has a head to do. But that's how I watch it. Being supported is vital for the operation of many of the individual media, otherwise they will lay low. Something has to be done, and it has to be done as soon as possible. Now, we might as well have experience in having accepted special support for the crown virus and assigned to the Regulation. That experience is only fine, considering that we want people who work in the media to continue working with the media and the media. I was disappointed with the discussion. I may not have been too surprised, but I was hoping at the time that we could fit for exactly who was getting the support. Sadly, that was not the case with both political and individual journalists. For my part, I'm not going to have any opinion as to whether the media or media who work for the media are acceptable to me or not. It's none of my business. Outwardly, democratic debates are saying that much of the media that will enjoy strength will by no means please me. I'm going to disagree with a lot of things, and I'm going to continue to jerk myself off at breakfast table, thinking that this isn't a good practice, like all those who've worked in the media do after they quit. All of us think that it was always so much better when we were in our day. But I'm going to fight for the strength of the media. That's the key, Mr. President. We need to find a way in which mental food will be remembered. This case has been developed for the better. It need not be so much to settle over and wonder: Is this editorial or not? Or in the local media: Is this material from the region or not, etc.? However, it is difficult to get rid of all thought - provoking estimates in this because the very foundation itself, the opposition here, is always some of the subject of mental evaluation. What is a media? It's a tough question to answer and something like that. I do not envy the people who have had to develop the system around this phenomenon, how we can support the media to promote the most diverse democratic discussion. It has succeeded here, as far as I know. There are things that can be developed and improved, and I'm absolutely sure that as wind and support are paid out regularly and we'll see how all of this goes, the environment will develop. We're taking the first steps. But we must take our first steps, or there will be little effort on the private media to support it. Therefore, I declare my special pleasure with the fact that this case has come out and is in force. A top-of-the-art Board of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u35	Madam President. We'll discuss a very important case today, a bill to legalize a change in the media law in support of the private media. Why is this important? Yes, because the media is one of democracy's pillars. The importance of democracies is clear because it is from the media that the public receives information on all that concerns society, about, for example, what happens. Here at the General, how the European Commission behaves and how agencies are operated and only everything. That is exactly what counts when we look at the need to strengthen our personal media. There has been a small debate over the state of the Kingdom News in the media market, I'm going to discuss it only afterwards, but it can't be overlooked that there have been significant problems with the media in recent years, long before the Korean virus laid the world on its side. A big change has been made with the constant news system that we now get through community media and the Internet, where we are stable consumers of all kinds of information, except that we are the consumers of information that are not professional. That is exactly the limit. We are being fed, the common people, on information that is sometimes very professional but that may not be up - to - date. Then it cannot be overlooked that rural media also play a very important role, both local and national, because they are portals into the far - flung community. Then we're also talking about the media taking care of international news for foreign countries, such as Iceland. We need to know what's going on in other places, but today is not just a news lesson at 8:00 a.m. in the Kingdom TV that is being watched by the nation's majority but a constant news hold all day long through the media. As a result, the change in the media market has resulted in a marked change in advertising market. There is also a reason why it is absolutely necessary for the Council to speed up this matter, to work hard, to ensure that the matter will be resolved at this Council. The media advertising, whether it is our national radio or private media, has crashed completely in recent months, and of course it has a major impact on the business. Therefore, a large medium of the country, a vision, is moved to close its news lesson today to those who are not subscribers and to my credit. I think that's a very important news agency. I think it's very important that we at least have... two TV news posts. Although we are now able to gather a wide range of information in foreign media, we need two opportunities to get reports of nationalities, since reports from here are more urgent in other media, except when there are some government or noncomputers. I'd just like to include in the terms of the conditions for management support. In this bill, there are many things that are fine and absolutely necessary. It refers to the record of the media, the license, the permission of the media committee, for 12 months or more, and at least for the past 12 months. Three full - time servants. For section 4 b-joints 2.gr. says, with permission of the president: The UN shall have submitted an annual report to the Media Committee. 23rd par. For the year before, and have provided adequate data and information on the possession of the media agency, including Real owner data I think this is a key, but unfortunately, the media committee has not received the work environment necessary to simply go forward with the media to provide clear information about real owners. That is fundamental in a democracies society. We were here with a media publisher who was thrown out for years without the common people knowing who his name was. Some dark owner was registered, but everyone knew that it was not the one who was registered to be the owner of the media. And why is that important? Yes, because we, the consumers of news and news sharing, need to know whether it is biased or objective media coverage. It is very important, especially in the media environment today, where there is too much information. It says in the bill that a company can't be out of line. It is very good and necessary to separate all the media from operating support that has not paid legal fees to public members, pension funds, and unions. They will be excluded from having some business support and are good. But I wondered if the committees have a problem. The General and Education Committee should add the regulations to exclude the media if owners store part of their money in taxes and therefore not participate in Icelandic society. I think it's important to send a clear message into society. Ideally, the owner of a media medium must share in the community's affairs in support of the Icelandic public. I think it's a message the government has to make because we're all in this together. Only through these all, how to handle all of this, and how to calculate it. Again, a strengthening system is set up in a similar form, and it was during the first two times as high as ever. Minister of education has provided a similar bill or an attempt to do so. There is talk of strength to the press, a total of over 400 million. K. every year. Then you have to see how it distributes. This was caused by a tremor in the Icelandic community because we now under duplication from the Covid pandemic it was found that 75% of the funds involved went to three companies, i.e. 300 out of 400 million. Now I'm not going to minimize the importance of large media, not at all, because large media have more opportunities for more extensive and deeper news explanations and the like. But if we look at an Icelandic media market, it seems that it does not necessarily work in Iceland, not when it comes to news, and digging deep into news and trace and research. On the contrary, we are here in our small country, with the very small media, with few employees who have been on the lead when it comes to study journalism. You can see how this distribution was done that if the media lets little workers run fast enough and walks up to their shoulders, they are not looking at what is produced but how many are producing it. You wonder, " Is it better to have more people in the table who do less or who do things along the way that I do? ' We must agree that it is not better to have a press market compression. No media can get more than 25% of the total amount or more than 100 million. There, three media burst into the main part of the strength. This maintains the balance that has been made in the Icelandic media market, which is shown by financiers paying down for some reason of business, year after year, and even decade, in a nonsense loss without making needed adjustments to the business. Then we'll come back to the democracy, for the financiers, big business partners, are benefiting from having the media. Then it is not an advantage to have a media medium who plays children's hours in the morning and in the evenings but just a media that medias news. This is comparable in other parts of the world. I'd like to include only the review of the Contestants on the media funding systems, but it shows that the United States Strategy feels that support for the public media is essential for the main objective of supporting the diversity and diversity in the media market. It says, by permission of the President: In this regard, the United Nations Organization has in mind that the holding of the larger individual media has increasingly developed in a way that the holding of property has taken on the financial resources of individuals who represent certain defined professional interests. In some cases, it is obvious that the provision of these parties on the media business has the primary objective of giving the individual's interests even stronger voices, thus achieving further progress. That's exactly what we need to keep in mind, Madam President, at once. The General and Education Committee will win this case. Will we contribute to a market compression? Are we going to strengthen the money or are we going to stimulate the media market so that more people will be less concerned with the complex environment of the media market? Here are a number of other comments that would be good to go on, but the time is running out. I remind you that our national radio is caring for other important projects than the public services that are on the market and have been on the market for the past 30 years. The fact that we are standing here in the Ponta Athlellis and constantly speaking down our national radio is sadly an indication that we do not understand our cultural role and the educational role and security role that our national television plays above the rest of the media. In recent years, there has been a great debate in the North countries that has been used to strengthen the media. Private media are greatly fortified in the North countries, who also run national radios and national televisions. Let us be proud owners of the State Radio, for that is our common property.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u36	Madam President. The media situation is clear to all of us. With the Internet, they stand at the palaces of their feet and the foundation of their former subscriptions collapsed, as we all know. Since then, the taxable model, based primarily on advertising, seems not to have worked, we know this. In a sense, private media produced the Internet had to be a constant experiment to survive, and this is the case. You see, at the same time as this is a fact, there's a commercial model of the Internet that didn't happen in recent decades, but the importance of the media for our community is clear and has rarely been more. In this country, we face the fact that we have progressively fallen off the list of journalists without a border in which freedom of media in lands of the world is appreciated. The rest of the North countries are on top four, but Iceland has dropped five in two years and lives in it 15. Now it might be said that 15th of the world's population is not so bad. We are simply used to something better. We're not used to being such a submerge of our friends in other northern countries here. We are not accustomed to accepting such a position, and there is no reason. In Iceland's fall on this list of media freedoms, communication between the media and the dominant political elements is increasing at one time. In this light, the learning minister's delay with this bill is extremely serious. The objective of the bill we're discussing here to support the private media is important, and that's good. The goal is to strengthen them and enable them to carry out their role in a modern - day democracy. The changes presented in the bill to this end are certainly needed, and this has been done here at the Assembly Hall. Too long, say some, and I know that a universal and educational committee will take this into consideration carefully, i.e. where it is expected that the state will provide a grant of up to 25% of the mass resources at the level of telecommunications, news reports, and information on community issues in the country. According to the bill, the State's cost of these changes may be up to 400 million. K. In view of other northern countries, the media is supported by different formats. In Norway, the largest media in each area, e.g. not supported, i.e. The largest media per defined area is not supported. In Finland, on the other hand, support for printing and network services, which are then published in the languages of minorities, is supported by innovation and research. Despite this arrangement, Finland is in second place on the list of journalists without a border on the media freedom. Thus, we cannot directly conclude that such a direct relationship exists between a widespread support system and the media freedom. However, what combines these support systems, these diverse support systems of other northern countries, is the innovation support, support that is not bound to the gathering and sharing of materials, but aims to establish new media or develop new services, new solutions, and new manufacturing methods. I think it's a bill, Superstar. Minister, could such a system have been established, too, instead of attaching all the support to the gathering and sharing of materials. It's in the production process, it's in the development of solutions that have become the most recent developments and that even account for the position we are in, so here is a welcome opportunity for us in the processing of this bill to bring us up above the list and try to ensure that the future media environment will be in harmony with time and in line with what happens in other countries in this regard. A positive goal has been removed to support government policy, which was found in the previous version of the bill. With all due respect to the importance of grammar, I believe that such signals would have increased the estimating authority of the government in part to the exchange of this support to the media. It would have, in my opinion, worked against the interests of minorities in Iceland and the media that produce information in non - Icelandic languages and for which I would like to give the highest commendation. Minister. We certainly do not need to increase the opportunity to influence the media. By means of a supporting system of things here being involved in the establishment of the media, there is the possibility that the management media will be subject to government approval, to government approval at any given time, and there is every reason to give a warning. It is urgent, if this bill is approved, to prevent such media administrations by the government. I suggest 2. The bill will be added to the law that official support should in no way work against media freedom of expression or their independence. It's simply a natural substitute, and I don't believe it except to the highest degree. Minister, please. The Board of Education and the World of Congress agree with me in that regard. This certainly does not guarantee that it will not occur but to have it there, cut and cut, to increase, and to strengthen the defense against such conflicts. As I mentioned at the outset, the environment of the individual media has changed dramatically over the years. There's a lot of variables to come up with. One of them is clearly the advertising market and the status of international giants online. It's gained a lot of weight. There is no doubt about that. Several members of the Parliament have entered the situation before me, which is particularly bad now in the light of the crown - virus epidemic, and I'm not going to say anything more. It's obvious. Hence, successful governments have been involved in specific support, though they may be disputed over how far he has reached. However, we need to be on guard here to camp for a longer time than we do in the crowning season. The situation is, of course, that RUS is in a position of supreme position, the State Radio, driven both to finance and making a lot of money from a commercial market. It's not new. It's my opinion that a careful national newscast is a good thing. That does not mean, however, that I insist on agreeing on the market that there is an automatic difficulty with private, domestic media. Therefore, it would have been reasonable to discuss both aspects of this concomitantly, to heal the wound we all watch in the Icelandic media market rather than to put on a patch. We are well able to create the basis for working together as a member of a government medium and an independent mediator. Unfortunately, there is little in the words of the Ministry of Education that she wants to see some changes, changes that are not sufficiently outlined and that are not quite outlined what to be, changes that have not been attempted on all this terms. It takes more than general declarations about someone's will from the ruler. The rest of us have little more than one who is in control of them in order to contribute to this matter. There has been a lack of a discussion about this bill. We are actually allowed to see each vision of the government, including the Ministry of Education, in the Icelandic media environment, both the state of our media and the private. It goes together. We only have one media market. But in view of the status of the private media, I believe that the way to support them is to provide reasonable support to their basic role in democracies with the aim of strengthening and strengthening the living and active domestic media cover. We need to make demands to the media, and of course some fences need to be put on how this is done. At the same time, we are responsible when we take care of these laws to make sure that they are truly useful, and the benefits are the means of ensuring free media, nothing more. And we need to make sure, and that's part of this goal, it has to be part of this goal, that support actually goes to the media that needs it. Madam President. I know why. A global and educational committee will take this matter professionally into account, taking into account the many views that have been developed here in the discussion and the viewpoints of a number of stakeholders, the art is almost endless, at the same time that it will work fast and well because it has become urgent to get some picture of the environment we've created in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u37	A respectable president. This afternoon's talk about the media in Iceland has been both beneficial and upbuilding. It is clear that the history of the Icelandic media is very dark and urgent that we keep our hands on our media. I'd like to do an experiment to present a short summary of what I believe can be of benefit to follow through. First, it is clear that members of Congress agree on the democratic importance of the media, that democratic debate must take place. Our history clearly shows that the source of ideas and criticism of government, employment, etc. has been through the media lately. I loved it already. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, who is believed to have been one of the most colorful journalists in the history of Iceland, studied the history of Jón Ólafsson. If I remember correctly, I think he founded the media center Baldur. He went to the lands of the West of Iceland, he had a world-wide globe, and he contributed a great deal to supply and maintain. I believe that evolution and economic growth and many other good things have been linked to this very conversation that is upbuilding, but it is also marked by criticism, in which we constantly communicate, exactly as we have been doing here. It's undisputed, I think, in this district discussion that if we love the democratic discussion, it's very important that the size around the state media that was established in 1930 - just by the group that I am elected for Congress, the forwardness - be strong and also around the individual media. We are, I hear, most of them agree on the importance of the democratic discussion and we need to put our arms around it. Second of all, it's also a pleasure to hear that we care very much about national, regional, neighborhood, and community, and the role they play in their own community, in their communities. The bill has just taken a special look at them, and I think they're very positive. Third, I'd like to mention that the conditions have become more open and that we did it, including, so I'll explain it out, because we put a frame around the publishing frequency. But as we have seen, during the past 15 years, the advances in technology have taken place, not just in the last two years, but only during the time of the Korean epidemic, have greatly affected. We see how the advertising market has been changing, and I mean that we've never used the media the same way, but I'm afraid to claim that even though I can't refer to studies that support it. We do it through our own smart devices, and that's why it's so urgent that we think about our language. There must be powerful media in this regard. When I say it's really important, it's up to the vocabulary. One of the things we notice, as we examine the global education study PISA, is that our students face a greater challenge than ever in drawing conclusions from the text in front of them. I think I mentioned it earlier that I studied the test, I reviewed all the questions, my reading ability, nature science, and mathematics, and one of the things I noticed was that the test was a significant error in reading ability. The next step that I will take as a minister of education and culture must give increased emphasis on reading itself and even less emphasis on having a spoon clock on our children when we are evaluating their reading skills. How do I connect this media bill? Yes, it is. It is the media that communicates vocabulary. We want our children and young ones to be able to read for their benefit and enjoyment on current issues. This is so important that we can participate in discussions and not worry too much about how we express ourselves. Whether through radio, TV, Internet, printing media, or the media, all of this is of great importance. I'd like to finally mention that I'm glad that some kind of parapolitic agreement is developing on the subject, and I hear it coming from most of the elected representatives who have spoken here. I want to thank especially two members of the board, one of the presidents of the General and Education Committee, Páll Magnússon, and the other. paritaprevir Kolberitir Óttarsson Proppér for having participated in this journey, cleared up the matter, and produced upbuilding criticism. I'd also like to say that I fully trust a General and Education Committee to review the discussion that has taken place here, which is useful, upbuilding and long-term timely. It's very important that we can finish this, and I'm also thinking of supporting our native tongue and that the discussion is the way she's been here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u38	A respectable president. We're finishing a discussion on government grants to the extra media. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education whether it feels natural in this context to strengthen all the media. Now the rich have the media, and I can't see that they need the strength to make their point. That must be their purpose by having the media go ahead. That's about 400 million. K. I have the feeling that this amount will go up. We know this from experience. We had 100 to 200 billion of them. K. to the political parties. It's up to 7700,800 million. K. To this day, the tendency is to blow out. I wonder if it would have been better to take the Finnish route, to strengthen, for example. little magazines in the country, going a different way than putting all this money on it. At the same time, we are talking about selling banks because the state is not supposed to have bank functions. But that gives money back. At the same time, we have the big elephant in the living room. This country has to pay 5 billion dollars, since it's 18 years, you just have to pay to pay off this fund. Besides, RUSV has 2 billion dollars in advertising income. Is it not better to start with limiting VOLV, letting them fight to keep the Icelandic language and do something else instead of putting all these people on the ground? As mentioned, 70% of these are being given to the richest media and 30% to the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator asks why they are strengthening private media and whether I am not concerned about holding property. We have provided clear guidelines for the possession of transparency, for example, whether the media has a legal record, and for such. Third, I'd like to tell you which one too. The senator that we examined the entire media layer in the North countries, and that's in this great business, not just since I became a minister of education and culture, but other ministers have taken the matter very seriously. A committee was appointed to report to me in January 2018, a committee appointed by the former minister of education and culture of the Independence Party, and we crossed over for what we could do. That is one conclusion. But if we look at what is happening in other parts of the North, I'm also going to mention, sir, that the arrangement we're setting up here is very similar to what Dan's taken up, and they strongly stress that the media is obviously independent. I must say that I have never imagined at any point that this support would affect the way the media talk about politics, how they discuss that subject. Each individual is independent, and he owes himself the responsibility to provide a reasonable, open discussion on the subject that he or she deals with at one time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I have to disagree. She's taking Dani for example. I want to take Find. Although Danir's doing it this way, I don't think it's true, but I think he's in a pretty good place. I'm kind of glad that it's a requirement for Finns to change this, but it doesn't seem to be the result. We're supposed to promote the media, but I'm afraid I'll take them all on the state bed. When we start taking something, it just grows and becomes out of control. I think it's much better to make sure that these strength will be a year from now and it's going to be permanent. RUSB is run by government funds and has the advertising market. I don't see how RUV kicked anything very cruel in the government of any time because you don't kick the one who's raising you. I'm afraid these media also start thinking, "Wait, am I supposed to go hard? ' Maybe next year I'll have less, maybe they'll pull this back? We're not supposed to get into this. Where, then, should we stop? We could take all kinds of things out in the country, shops are, for example. missing from local communities, and people may have to go 100 miles to get to the store. Why should the Kingdom not make sure that people do not have to risk crossing mountain roads, polluting them, and all of them, by building up shops? Is that the next one? If we start with all this, where did we stop? I'm afraid we're starting on the wrong end. We should start by taking VOLV out of a commercial market. It's the highest. Minister wouldn't agree with me on that? Is it not time to change the ROV, explain its role, and make it more part of Icelandic language and culture? It doesn't have to be that big.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u41	A respectable president. It says in the government covenant that the government will support the private media. As I mentioned, this work began before I became minister of education and culture. I just want to reiterate that we, with our most skilled expert in the media, have done some serious research. I understand the comments that have been made here today, but I would also like to mention that, because many people have been concerned that the media will not criticize politicians and will not criticize the government, that last day, one of the media channels was very critical. I don't think the press will hesitate to criticize what we're doing here, and I'm happy to take it. They are a fourth power, and those who are writing need to back up what they do, and we have other arguments and support our issues. I don't think the press will stop criticizing the government, I think we'll see that we're filming it today that's not. I want to stress that the matter is in my mind a lot about the language, access to it. We must strengthen all its benefits. I see this media bill as a very important part of my journey as Minister of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u42	A respectable president. I recommend a bill for a regular and ongoing information code of the publishers of stocks and of the family. The bill's on the roof. 415 and No. 341. The bill includes the introduction to the European Parliament's Directive and the Council on the coordination of signals in relation to information on the publishers of stocks registered in an orderly market. The directive contains and measures to coordinate regular collection of information on the publishers of stocks that have been taken for business in a structured stock market and on the so-called fictitary rules. Today, certain regulations apply to the terms of the stock exchange law No. 108/2007 on the publication of regular information on the publishers of stocks and the family of feds. The bill suggests that there will be an elimination of special laws and similar regulations in the terms of stock exchange. The aim of the legislation is to ensure the transparency of information on the publishers of stocks registered in a structured stock market to contribute to the protection of the investors and the effectiveness of the market. The main element of the bill is the implementation of the directive's regulations. Chapter 2 provides the regular information that the publishers of the stocks are obliged to publish to the public, chapter 3, and chapter 4 discuss the other duties of the publishers of stocks. Then the bill tells us how the monitoring of the bill's regulations is carried out, on the authority of the Rapporteur for information collections, regulations, lawsuits to the police, the protection of an employee on the basis of reports of a violation and access of the secretary's license to set regulations and Iceland's Seurdal Bank for setting rules. The main changes with the bill from the current right can be summed up in the following way: First, the concept of the publisher is defined as being able to fit into the definition that was previously reserved for lawmakers. Second, there are changes in the rules for the home state of the publishers of stocks, which will ensure that all publishers of the stocks, which are worth the equivalent of 1,000 euros in Icelandic dollars and have been taken up business in the EEA, will submit to the supervision of a legal authority. According to the change, publishers are required to inform law - enforcement authorities of their choice in a home state within three months. If the stock has been taken into account in more than one Member State, it will all be at home until the publisher selects one and announces it. Third, the publishers of stocks are delayed to publish their annual bill due to the first six months of the account year extended from two to three months. At the same time, the publishers of stocks will be obliged to have annual accounts and annual accounts available for ten years, instead of five years. Fourth, the obligation of the publisher's stocks to publish a two - year report is to be removed, as it is thought to be too burdensome for SMEs. Fifth, the publishers of stocks that work in soil work and forestry will be required to publish a yearly report on pay to the government. Six, there's a deadline to report the establishment of the logistics extended from one business day to four. In the bill it is expected that the UN will monitor the implementation of the law and that annual accounts will determine whether the data in annual accounts and in annual accounts are collected according to the appropriate accounting rules. The FEC will have standard control clearances, such as temporary interruption or temporary discontinuation of trade from an orderly stock market, as well as the provision of legislation against the regulations of the law, as well as legal legislation against anyone who violates certain principles of the bill. In that case the bill will agree and provide information on the European monitoring institutions and resolve differences between the Community's legislation in the EEA. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill will affect the publishers of stocks and the owners of shares in the publishers of stocks that have been taken for business at a structured stock market. The changes are aimed at improving the effectiveness and flexibility of the environment on the publication of information and promoting investment protection, reducing the burden of administrative therapy and promoting the global competitiveness of the Icelandic publishers of the EEA. No significant effects on administrative matters are expected or the State's expenses are increased by the law. I believe it is important that the bill succeeds in strengthening the financial market in this country, particularly for the small and medium-sized publishers of stocks, and to meet Iceland's contract commitments under the EEA Convention. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I'm just gonna come up here to make sure that this bill has been changed from what was originally set up. In the beginning, a stricter requirement was made than the order of transparency. Looks like it's been changed to me. There were comments in the consultation puzzle, reminding me that this was a much more stringent rule than in the European Economic Area. I'm happy, of course, if it's been changed. It is of utmost importance, especially now, when we are hoping to enter the economy because of the viral epidemic, that here the same rule of action in the land of foreign investments. Of course, they are very important to us. A foreign investment has fallen to strengthen our economic foundations. As a result, increasing international investments strengthen our economic strength and are important in our reputation abroad when it comes to whether people want to invest in our country. Is that how it is, topv. Minister, the problem is to match it according to the 2004 transparency drive? Because that's not the way it was in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to point out the progress of the consultation puzzle at any given moment. A senator came in. It is beneficial for the council to see during the controversy treatment in the bill the communication that takes place at the preparatory stage. Sometimes we forget that it is not long since we took the step of doing things better in this way. This is shown in the dictionary. I will not, however, say that all comments were taken into account. A senator referred to his case. However, in this discussion, reviews from the Logos attorney Service, the Association of Economic Corporations, the Organization for Employment, etc. In particular, they made comments on the delay that a suspect had to report to a publisher and to the F.A. The bill, as it took place in the consultation puzzle, assumed that the announcement would be sent immediately and no later than the next day of business. This was changed after comments were made. Other changes, e.g. The above words were added to the bill's headline of the following words: 'Counsel' and log related to it. In other words, I can confirm that the situation has changed, and I hope that it will meet the factors. Senator specified.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u45	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'd like to agree that in this matter, we'll see that the confidentiality is proving its significance. It was originally suggested that there would continue to be rules other than the transparency document, which says stricter rules when it comes to so - called tax laws. I rejoice that these comments were taken into consideration because they are very important. Here and now, I would like to encourage the Ministers and committees ahead of us to use the opportunity that the Committee has with this bill to try to reduce the accessways that are in the country when it comes to foreign investment, e.g. The announcement and other factors. We need to harmonize with this because we have an important form of resistance ahead. Then we must have just the same potential as the nations in the European Economic Areas that this country will make foreign investments. It hasn't been like that, and there are other forms of barriers. At least this is the part I celebrate. As I say again, I hope that the committee will use this opportunity to make sure that this is the necessary step to conform to the transparency order. If there is something else, the committee should indeed review it as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u46	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. It is important that we are not making special rules beyond what we have committed to doing unless there is an extremely strong argument. Anything at all. For example, a senator has said here about the importance of foreign investments, so can I. This allows the committee to think further about it and to be able to review the problem, as in a lunch for her work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u47	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I just want to reiterate what I mentioned earlier as to our foreign investment, it strengthens our position, and it is designed to strengthen the economic support of our country. The increased weight of foreign people in the Icelandic economy increases investment and makes better contact with foreign markets. It's very important. It increases production and improves our market markets. All of these are very important factors, and especially in the many recent protests, which we certainly hope will succeed. In Iceland, there is quite a significant investment and has been increasing in recent years. There are many investments, which involve a wide range of occupations, and they produce a variety of jobs. However, despite the increase in foreign investments during the past few years in this country, the magnitude is still lower than in the general population, a higher foreign investment is in smaller countries that we compare with. It is of utmost importance in what lies ahead when we try to reverse the intense contractions that have occurred here because of the crowning virus epidemic. Therefore, governments must contribute to creating a competitive and attractive environment here. Of course, we are not enough of ourselves than we are in other countries, and we have every reason to make a profit, so to speak, to get in here from foreign sources. Foreign sources come not only with funding but often with other approaches and diversity of vision. For example, in connection with the sale of Iceland Bank, I have stressed in my language that it is very important to increase the competition of the Icelandic financial market, as we know, to compete, and to make foreign investments, to increase this competition. That is where we should look at a foreign bank. In this context only, President, I don't feel that governments have shown enough that they were really trying to get a foreign bank to work here. In discussing this case on a budget board, including In dealing with the Contestant Guard, the Contestant Commission concluded that the government has not made it clear enough that they have really tried to get a foreign bank. It may be a small thing, but it is part of those foreign investments. We should not forget that greater competition in the bank market contributes to lower interest, lower services, and innovation. It would also build trust in a Icelandic financial market. Then I come to what I mentioned earlier, which is very important, i.e. reducing the access block on the land. They are also involved in financial activities, getting foreign partners into financial environments in Iceland. This bill gives us the opportunity to cross these things. As I said before, I'm glad that there was a change in original plans that are particularly on the 21st floor. the bill that has a set of requirements due to a sheriff's party to report. It says that a person who becomes a police officer should send a call to that publisher and to the F.A.P. immediately and no later than four days after the assassination party began. This has been changed. Those four days were not in there. This is now in accordance with the European Union tropospheric Directive, the EEA from 2004, which specifically recommends the integration of regular information about the publishers of stocks taken for business in an orderly stock market and the publication of information on the change of a significant share of voting rights in such publishers. The target of the directive, as mentioned above, is to conform to the requirements of publishers'ability to provide information and contribute to the reality of the internal market and wide protection from investors. I'm glad it's been changed, Mr. President. Let us not forget that it is very important that we agree with this because there are some cases in this area where foreign people have had to undergo unnecessary, burdensome duties that are in effect, but hopefully they will be changed by this bill. It may, of course, reduce the interest of foreign investors on the market in this country and invest here, and that's very unfortunate. There are cases where foreign people had to pay high fines because of the late announcement. For example, two years ago the FDA made peace with a foreign person who sent a announcement in six cases, reminds me, one day too late. The fine was less than 15 million. K. Last year, a pension fund had to pay a fine of over 2 billion. K. Because an announcement came one day late. Of course, this is not a good witness for us as a country seeking a foreign investment. In both cases, I mentioned, 15 million and 2 million, the announcements were sent within the specified delay in the transparency tips so that if the principle had been the same here as in the European Economic Areas, these persons would not have had to pay the fines. There we clearly see examples of such barriers to our having a foreign investment. I see no evidence that Iceland should have a more strict rule of principle than is laid down in Europe. It is important in the work ahead of us that men also use this opportunity, Mr. President, to review whether there are other aspects of the principle that need to be fixed or harmonized with the European principle which is of utmost importance to us as I have traced here and we know and know. Economic and financial secretary knows very well. But saying this, I wish the board would like a good job at this job and be glad that there was an important comment here taken into consideration that was received in the consultation puzzle.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u48	I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the law of income taxation, no. 90/2003. Since the pandemic of crown virus, investments have been greatly contracted, with unemployment increasing dramatically. Publicly, however, there has been a shortage of investments with increasing expenses for public projects. Privacy is aimed at promoting private investments in the employment sector with special emphasis on environmentally friendly and environmentally sustainable possessions. The bill thus helps governments to resist the negative effects of the epidemic and lay the groundwork for stronger Iceland for the future. The bill recommends two types of deviations from existing laws that take up investments in the employment sector in the form of funds. On the one hand, there is a general authority to obtain such valuables as obtained in 2021 faster than the existing law indicates, i.e. so-called hurry-up. This procedure can lead to a lower tax payment during the first few years after buying but would result in higher tax payment in later years when the stock price, which is today 10% of the stock prices, was established. To this day, the maximum disposal of cash is between 20 and 35% and measures the bill for increasing these upper limits to 50% until the end of 2025. However, there is a warrant to calculate the specific expiration burden of stock prices or prices of certain employment agencies obtained in 20213/42022, which would be permitted to grow with equal sums over three years. The definition of property that falls under the warrant is environmentally acceptable property, promoting sustainable development, and corresponding to one of the four categories listed in the bill. Groups are aimed at reflecting properties that might be described as green in the context of international regulations and guidelines as detailed in the Regulation. It also includes possessions that do not fall under these specified categories, but it can be viewed as comparable to green possessions and that contribute to the same goals. Thus, a special expiration burden may be said to include tax appeal in the form of increased transduction sources from taxable revenues, thus creating the premium burden for investments in green property, resulting in green transformation. A respectable president. We have had a very positive response to these ideas. It was then called in the autumn months, when the current labour agreements, due to different specimens, were clearly extended, between the labour market parties to the core candidates for the biographies. It was then called for by employers that governments would take action to relieve humans of the difficult times we are going through, and we have been doing so by various means. I'm here to mention the recent reduction in employment insurance, which is temporarily reduced in 2021, as an example. We've been making changes in unemployment improvements, and we've also thought to ease, and here's a case that is rooted in this same mass and has been received in a very good way by the Association of Employment, where people believe that rules of this nature can set free an investment that would otherwise be waiting for uncertainty to decline, etc. But this bill includes a very strong impulse to speed up investment plans that may have been on the drawing table or may be at first priority now as a result of the case if it is approved here at council. There's a substantial amount of money being expected. We are here with an assessment of this bill, and it has to be said that the assessment of a procedure this is very uncertain, but we assume that the overall cost of change may be up to 4 billion today. There would be about 400 million who were rooted in the tax pay period, and 3.6 billion would be due to a decrease in income markets due to the intention of green investments. But it is clear, as I say, that this is a very uncertain case. In this context, these 4 billion are just the tax economy, but the investment, of course, will be a product of this sum and will remember it in the circumstances that exist today, because a professional investor has been a success, as I used to trace it before. The Kingdom has tried to cope by increasing its investment levels. Since farms are not investing at the same rate as the government at this time, public investment levels could be higher than the most important, although the level of employment has been maintained and this issue is still a priority to encourage investments. I hope that the council can work quickly on this matter. I hope so. I think that's important. We're offering all financial support to the Economic and Business Committee while it's in progress. I think it's important because we're looking at the period that is actually starting from the years, when we look at the times when investments can happen. Each week and month may be important to the fact that the Council's position is intended for investments this year. It is now that is the most important thing to get ahead of ourselves. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, I would like to suggest that the bill go to the Economic and Business Committee after this discussion and then through 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u49	Mr. President. I appreciate the story. It's the most interesting thing to do. A few things I would like to ask about. First, I assume that in the regulations that the Minister puts under this bill, there will be a bit of excitement over the fact that no green laundry will be opened when it comes to the environmental sensibilities and those who may accept the investments, so we are here with a real green step, not something that could drive a double argument. Then I'd like to ask the Minister about these four categories listed, which include eco-friendly transport, renewable energy, etc., how they were selected, and if the Ministry may have considered an international reference, such as The European Union strategists, who expect to be introduced in part this year and then in the next two years, where six different environmental targets, such as target of climate change counter measures, adaptation to climate change I would have thought this would even be an ideal opportunity to take the first steps toward that induction, to strike the tone for what is almost inevitable. And then, even though that may be unnecessary concern, it is worth keeping in mind that for 33rd and 37 C.E. law on income taxes is part of the tools involved and the research and processing of carbon. Although this may sound absurd, oil companies may define part of their work as such. Sustainable control of natural resources and thus may fall under the currently available list. [[The president calls.]] Don't you need to, just so that we have belts and bracelets, and absolutely clear that this is not one of the institutions for the oil industry, the terms of the income taxes being spared, taken out of parentheses? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u50	A respectable president. Yes, I can say that it's important that we don't take the case back with the Regulation's version so we'd open up to some sort of green laundry, like before. A senator came in. But I now believe that our intentions are completely clear, and when it comes to the criteria that will be used, it is based on the bill on how the world's objectives have been viewed and that the classes are based on international rules and guidelines, including: The European Union Regulation and its classification system, as well as its other guidelines and guidelines. I'm not sure that this is a very practical example. In fact, a senator noted that this may not be a reason for concern. But I'm sure you'll be looking at it. The oil industry in Iceland is very limited. We are primarily importing oil and distributing it, and little research and other such activities are being carried out here. But I think that's in very good harmony with the objective we've been setting as a government to use this opportunity, both to speed up the green transformation and to stimulate investment at the same time by using the tax system. And even if it may be claimed that the investment rate has gone so far that we should look beyond the field, it is still that the sector of employment has taken on this matter in a very positive way and that the need for investment is particularly present in the sectors we are setting up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u51	Mr. President. First with the regulations that will put the box around environmental rinsing and what accepted parties are involved. Then I wondered if a financial and business committee might need to see a plan for the Regulation, if it would need some consultation with the Environment Ministry, or the EEA about it. The EEA is holding an environmental witness in this country. I think this might be strengthened to make sure that we have it completely clear from the very first day each to the very point of resolve. Minister caught. Then, briefly, about this almost unrealistic fear of opening up in favor of carburetor development, I'm not worried that it will flow public funds into that industry through that bill by law. But I think it's important, though, that there's a line drawn in the sand in all the songs we agree on, that this side is the green and the other side we don't go. It is only in accordance with what the world's countries commit to in Paris, to prevent public funds from entering the industry that directly violates climate targets. So I think this is something to consider in the commission work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-19-45.u52	A respectable president. All I'm going to say is that I thank you for the excellent way of handling the matter, and these are excellent suggestions as well as the committee can work with and process. It's gonna be very interesting to see how it works. It is not possible for us to succeed, i.e. inducers. It can also be said that following the legal process, it may be difficult to measure how much of the investment takes place after such laws as this is based directly on the Law and what was planned before. This is not a good measure, but what we know is that we still have at least a few words. did what we could. We suggested the tools, tools, or here in this case maybe the special motivation, the appeal that made a big difference for some, if not all, and we wanted to be there if it could affect the type of investments and investments. I'm going to say again that it is a very serious matter... how much less economic investment has been made, and it has to change. That is one reason why we recover from the economic depression and at the same time that within a few years, we become competitive as a nation with others competing for markets, e.g. for foreign transactions and services to us Icelanders. We need to stay in our workforce, i.e. We need to keep up with all the well - educated people in this country. Investment in the future is one prerequisite that there may be a longer-term viable condition and that it is ideal to live where jobs will be carried out in sectors that have a purpose for the future.
