ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u1	There have been letters received from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made in order to provide written answers to panel requests. 822 on income and the decrease in pensioners, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu, to threshing. 1090, about the guide dogs, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on the threshing floor. 918, with regard to household support and special support for social security and academic ages, from Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of a conference is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting can last longer than it is recommended today. Consider this proposal approved if no one objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u3	A respectable president. Waiting for righteousness is what desperate, unemployed, and older citizens have had to do for decades. Human rights, fairness, justice, and the prohibition of discrimination are just words that governments by government do not understand in the affairs of the worst in Icelandic society. An increase in social security benefits by 3.6% during the past year to 4.6% of global inflation is showing how the worst cases of injustice are affected by the government. More than a 10% increase in remuneration at the same time further increases in heart rate and is now about 40% in the worst type of bank failure. Waiting for food support is prolonged and increases in the number of people who have to live in an intensively poor state. In the Covid-19 viral epidemic, the government can't even show that it doesn't discriminate against the government's insurance agency because it's managed to separate one group from the other, that's the worst of our senior citizens. Anybody wants in here or out there in our rich community trying to score at 230,000 bucks. in a month after taxes, how much less money? Pay rent on housing, food, clothing, medicine, and other necessities, and make only 220,000 bucks. a month or less? Is that fair or just? And where is the human rights to this economic violence? All should be equal to law and rights, and all who need the legal right to help with sickness, disability, old age, unemployment, poverty, and comparable things. Children should then be ensured by the law of protection and care required for their well - being, according to the Constitution. Children in poorer, older citizens in very low supply, jobless, and very poor social workers. Is it not the time for reasonableness and righteousness to be done for all, for all to be equal in law and to enjoy human rights, and especially for children to be assured of the protection and care required for their well - being?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u4	Mr. President. The temperature intensity of the climate is not reduced these days. Many believed that the effect of Covid-19 would result in reduced emissions, including Based on transport and other factors, global emissions increased but did not decrease over the years 2019 and 2020 according to new numbers. This was due to increased fossil fuels'growth in energy production, in part to offset the negative effects of Covid-19. Mr. President. There is also no good news about the world's glaciers. They continue to shrink, and now they add to a rising sea level of 0.75 millimeters per year. In other words, the process is greatly improved. Icelandic glaciers continue to decrease. In 1890, the area was 12,600 miles2, 2019, which is 10,400 km2. Thus, they have been reduced by 2,200 miles (2,200 km) or 18%. Of course, there are details in all of this. The United States has returned to the Paris convention. Other superpowers, the greatest pollutants, i.e. Russia, China, and India say they're making plans at the Paris Convention, as before they have to prove that they're going to make it. This is where we're going. We can reduce our contractions by 45◯50% through 2030 according to the schedule of action. But I remind you that there is also another way to increase carbon binding, both by foresting and by recovery of wetlands, that I do not speak of the dejected new ones that are becoming increasingly introduced to us these days. If we stand for what we have agreed on by strategy and do a little better, we will have at least one. I'll take our cut.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u5	Mr. President. Recently, however. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir, the daughter of Gunnoll, urged the Icelanders to travel within the country, especially in the bedroom. The challenge is very good, for being born too few children in Iceland today and confirming Iceland's Habitat Office statistics. Fertility is now 1,72 children per woman, but it is usually the basis for 2.1 children to maintain population. There is also a worldwide situation. But back to the challenge and to the bedroom. For many, that is not enough. Many couples and individuals need help. There may be a number of reasons for infertility problems. Infertility is not a choice. Having repeated sterilizations is a mental and physical challenge, especially a costly process. In Denmark similar trends have been ongoing for some time and Danes have tried to find ways to improve the availability of fertility treatment. Thus, there are three treatments that are offered without cost within the general medical system. Thoughts have been made to improve. The Denmark Industrial Association has proposed subsidies for private hospitals, wait for treatment to be over 30 days. In Iceland, only one person can be treated. The cost is huge, and there is no guarantee that treatment will succeed at first. Today, health insurance pays the first treatment by 5% and by the second to fourth treatment by 65%, but does not participate in costs if assistance is received abroad. I ask, Mr President, do we think that's acceptable? Do we only want them to be able to get the necessary help? If we want to increase the number of births in Iceland, we must first make it easier for those who want to have children to get needed help.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u6	V.E.G. President. In recent news reports, the cervical screening of women has continued and new information is being developed all the time. This morning, experts in that area came to the welfare committee and can safely say that there have been a number of reasons to ask for it with full weight and with every means available to get the vision home. Women's life and health are at stake. News reports earlier that there was communication between the health care of the capital area and the Hospital for the past winter. The hospital's ability to analyze samples and responses was required on the same day from the hospital that he could receive HPV tests immediately during the years and in advance. They communicated before conversation began in the laboratory in Denmark. According to the state of the market, studies are subject to tenders. The Ministry has identified this, and according to the last news of the case, there seems to be no job at tenders. It's got to turn off the path that's now gone and obviously doesn't work. It is absolutely unacceptable to expect women to wait in complete uncertainty. Women's life and health are worth more than that they can change. I'm waiting for the highest. A health minister to do so, to change his mind, and to get the vision home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u7	Mr. President. I have to admit, the great discussion that has taken place over the last few days on the affairs of immigrants is going through me. This is a good case that is being offered with overwhelming support here at the Council. However, it seems that one group decides to set up this matter so that it is right to sow fear and suspicion toward the public in the country. It's doing something that's not good in the context of things. The situation of homeless refugees and refugees is international trouble, and as a nation, we have a moral obligation to take our share and do what we can to keep these matters at home. That's what we're doing with the bill we're doing here on the affairs of immigrants. We're linking the United States Environment Agency, which has done its part and has been located in Iceland, and expanding it now into the capital area, it's consistent with the reception of capitalists and trustees, and that a multicultural facility can provide the best information about the services offered to the rural communities that have been receiving theakists and, of course, a complete welcome to the immigrants here in Iceland. We are to demonstrate the maturity of being able to do this properly and to do the best, to us as a rich nation, but not to turn this issue upside down, that there is some great danger in our journey, that we are opening up for the vengeful movement of people here from around the world. [[The president calls.]] We're harmonizing this service, we're working it out of our best ability, and we're supposed to do it. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a shame to speak this thing down.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u8	Mr. President. As a result of this week's work, I'd like to start a discussion on behalf of the main policy agenda; to walk in the EU and adopt the euro. If we do not have the crown to take the blow because of external trauma, we must view the proposal for restoration as an offer of massive unemployment in the domestic world. Inflation has become a major concern. It is not lost, and it is far beyond the objective of the Federal Bank. The government has no equipment to protect homes, many of which stand vulnerable because of income contractions and unemployment. No effort is made to arrive e.g. to avoid loan agencies rolling investments in small or excessive charge costs to borrowers with higher interest on variable loans. The secretary of finance opened a new dimension in the violations of the elderly by planning to legalize that the funds from pensions only change once a year with the index of consumer prices, not monthly as they have been at least in 1997. Finally: Yesterday's discussion of the perennial issues made it clear that we live here in Iceland follow a course that has been abandoned by neighboring nations and described as a mistake. We can't stand that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u9	A respectable president. During the past year, the media have stressed support measures to lure the people of the country through the crisis created by Covid. Now that we see a country wrestling with the epidemic, it is important not to lose focus. With cooperation, we can endure and bridge the last few weeks, which connects measures, maintains income and helps companies to grow. The government presented for the weekend on several other activities, including lock up grants, additional applications for penance, prior employment responsion are sponsors, additions to various social measures and educational resources. It is important to invest in people and ensure household survival, but at the same time, the negative effects of the outbreak on individuals need to be counteracted. This is best done by ensuring self - control, whether through study, social participation, or the services of the health system. Throughout the pandemic, opportunities for education, participation in sports, and various social resources have been emphasized. It is, therefore, particularly enjoyable to see now that there is an increase in money for mental health, social action, and education. The available resources have proved to be useful to society. The number of students has increased at both high school and college degrees. It is clear that there was a declaration by the minister of Education in the spring of last spring. It was then declared that all students would be accepted and financed guaranteed for their teaching. It has been well established, particularly those who have been designed to promote vulnerable groups of society have come to be. Let's finish this game together.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u10	Mr. President. During the last few years, the nursing home in the country has been disfellowshipped. Investment from the government to the households, which is mainly a day's budget, has not increased in terms of prices or service levels. On this point, the services of an enterprise have repeatedly pointed and wanted to correct but speak for the faint ears of the government. The nurses are either fired by their communities or by partners, or by private, private, or social institutions. Recently, an informative report on the analysis of the labour costs of a nursing home was published. The main conclusion is that most are expelled from the nursing home at a angle, but only 13% of homes reach ends. The total Hall totals 1,497 million. K. The year was 2017 and 2020. In particular, however, the hail is much greater, since local communities contributed a great deal to the business of individual households. If it hadn't, it'd be 3.5 billion in the season. Mr. President. Farmers in many parts of the world have thus undergone failure and have been forced to contribute to the financial support that has long suffered by many rural communities. This has had to be done, despite the fact that the State is responsible for the seminary and the day's expenses should be sufficient to pay for services rendered. It is the same person, the State, who makes up the requirements of service but then yearns to pay accordingly. As in many areas of health care, agreements with the State's authority on paying for the ministry have been disfellowshipped and are characterized by prudence and prejudice. As a result, many rural communities have decided to return nursing services to the State. They are heading for the State to receive more and less of the group, as perhaps planned, because these are the times of the government. The central government will take care of the old people, at least It seems that governments believe that all things are best placed in the government's arms, that government is the right thing to do. Now everyone is aware that over the years and decades, there will be a significant increase in the number of older people in the country. Aren't we going to do this thing properly, Mr. President? How can this be done in this way? Is there no policy in this case? Is the policy of putting your head in the sand and pretending not to see the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to call attention to the accounting that came in from the township of Smokeynes, which was submitted yesterday on Tuesday, May 4, where the town government challenges health care to ensure the operation of a new South American health care department as soon as possible, but not later than October 1st, 2021. Under that rule, the whole town government writes that it is not ready to wait for the 33/4 years that will take place in building a new public health care and unclear whether it will be achieved, rather than the current health care facilities on the Southnes. Then the book also says, with permission from the president: The HSS reported a legal examination by the Brunavorna Southernnes staff that therefore needs to be sought elsewhere. Medical or firefighters need to look elsewhere for a legal checkup. The joints need to be cleaned immediately. Isavia, the biggest workplace in the region, cannot get flu shots and anything else. A large number of Southnes now come here to the capital area for vaccination. Why is that? Yes, because they're registered at a clinic in the capital area. We have the solution in front of us, and we should use it. In response to the demand in the capital area, a diverse business form provided a guarantee of increased service. There, the health care system was succeeded. Why is there no room for inhabitants in other parts of the country to enjoy the same access to health care as do the capitals? Let's find solutions that work right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u12	A respectable president. It's kind of ironic to watch a government party talk like he's on a government stand. In the excerpt of the Independence Party, members and his ministers describe a policy of health that does not rhyme with what this government has done in health matters and does not frame how. The senators then vote here at the council chamber when these cases are presented. These same people speak of the importance of strengthening the health system through the cooperation of government service and private service. I think it's great. But what is the reality of this period? Any alternative measures by an independent healthcare provider are in danger. We know how to deal with personal health care, physical therapists, speech pathologists, cancer companies, psychologists, and genetically functioning doctors. This government has done nothing but press on to these sources or not with them. And what happens to that, Mr. Honorable President? Waitings are getting longer, and our people are feeling worse. Service is getting worse all over the country. The restoration is the group that has resisted this very confusion. We have presented a case for a short wait list, e.g. during hip and joint replacement surgery. And what does this category, which now costs advertising, have to be fixed? He chooses against matters, hammers on the red button, or stops things from getting better. When the Senate agreed to our case, the restoration of psychologists to conform to the health insurance system, they'd be thinking about mental feelings as much as the physical one, then the minister of finance came the next day and got caught up in the case. So when we firmly observed the migration of cancer cells from abroad, which means reduced service to women and loss of knowledge, what did this same group do? Nothing. Nothing, Mr. President. It's ironic to see those advertisements all over the booth. They're a joke. The goat is a herb; it is a well - oiled and inflexible one. Only if the Independence Party now knew someone in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u13	Mr. President. Yesterday, there was a special debate at the council on economic issues. That's where I even pointed. would be a major risk factor in Icelandic economics and, therefore, financial households and businesses. So be careful to pick up a euro or to attach it firmly to one another. V.E.G. The minister of finance was not of that concern. Mr. President. The reaction of a financial minister brought to the attention of a pointy note in a South Guðbrandur Einarsson, the President of the town government in Smokejanestown, who was also chairman of the South American Trade Association for many years. Guðbrandur said on his Facebook page, with permission of the maximum. President: A blessing is a blessing to the secretary of finance because her success can be changed. The lack of clothing, however, is just a tax deduction from the public to those who own currency or are exported. During the collapse, the buypower of hired people was halved by gang folds. Maintaining a crown is just a simple way to steal people's lives. Guðbrandur's purpose to bring the problem to a good degree and to the consequences of his appointment. Mr. President. History teaches us that the alleged blessing of the crown is quick to turn into a curse. Similarations in the Crown's gang have a bad effect on the whole community, thus more of the root cause than the cure. The crown does not prevent unemployment. The crown does not prevent inflation. The crown does not guarantee competitive growth. It is simply a false claim. The crown does not help to build more solid and varied employment based on intelligence and technology. It reduces our potential, but it doesn't increase them. The Icelandic dollars is not a blessing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u14	A respectable president. Recently, the highest was introduced. Education minister of the so - called additional support measures for the pandemic. At first glance, the actions look fine. It contains, for example, spoke of a temporary increase in basic progress in the form of a temporary additional loan. As you look closer, 6% of the loans are able to absorb basic pressures but are available only to students who have not been making money over a single income market in 2020, which is especially to those students who have not had to work in school. Students of students have severely criticized the Minister for lack of ability to attack the real root problem of students, which we all know is the basic development itself. It's still too low. In fact, what students are asking for is that they can survive on student loans and that the addition corresponds to the typical social consumption criteria. That is what we know and what students have been fighting for years. When changes were recently made in the loan system with the prime minister for the establishment of Education, the basic education loans were not moved, not to a degree. Then the restoration made adjustments. She's been dropped. Last year there was an increase in the base extension of 0K. The same thing happened again on April 1; no lasting increase. This does not mean packing operations like this into a nice bow-wrap package and saying that students' requirements are being met when the trial is very different. The president of the University of Iceland, when she said, "If the call isn't answered when we're most in need, when? "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to follow the discussion that I started here about recycling on some of the pitchfork. The system has remained unchanged despite systems tips. It promotes, not recycling within the country, but the transport of plastics to countries with its own carbon track. Recent changes made on the system affected the position of the recycling company Pure North in Who Type, to be stated, with some of the most environmentally-friendly recycling in this field known in the world. They brought great reproach on their competitiveness. In the European Union, there are examples of this and of the activities that are enjoyed by such authorities. The system does not encourage cleaning and repairing. Rather, it encourages weighing dirt and water. As I studied in my first speech yesterday on this subject, a large part of what is being paid for water and mud. Numbers that are then published on plastic recycling include crooked, wrong, they're deception. The result is not in any way consistent with that when talking about our good results in that area. In recent years, too, we have spent hundreds of millions of dollars from Exploitation Fund to provide water and dirt. Recent information tells me that a large amount of hay-knuckle plastics is planted in Iceland, of what is not exported, and of what is sent to Malaysia, and of the small amount recycled in Whosores. There is a positive twin in these matters, and it is quite remarkable that the Agency, the Department of Exploitation, failed to respond to this and that the Environment Ministry has failed to respond to this. It is noted that the Agency has not submitted annual accounts since 2016. A respectable president. For that reason, I will look for a Presidential review of this institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u16	President. Yesterday I was introduced as the 15th senator of the district, who was an excellent reminder of how inconsistencies are in this country. If there should be an equalizing division between the current population terms, then the northwestern district should be held with five comingts, the North Eastern District seven, the district of ten, the Southwestern district of 18 and the Republic of Reykjavík, by 24 or 12 of each of the districts. However, that is not the only uneven exchange. The distinction between councils is also very uneven. Based on the relative number of members, the Independence Party received two additional seats, the Four Public Assembly, the Controversy One and a Bright Future one for a future in the 2013 elections. During the 2016 election, the Independence Party received five additional seats, the Left Animate, a green supply of two extra districts, Piratar two, and construction one. The problem, however, becomes even more complicated when the so - called 5% threshold is added. That's when the exchange is even worse and bad enough, though it is. The easiest solution to this problem is to increase the number of equations. The Constitution does not have to be changed. It should not be a fairyish, unexpected event, as was said to the council's president in the news last night. There is absolutely nothing complicated or unreasonable about increasing the number of peers, very simple after all. Clearly, though, more is needed to make our election system fair. In order for the percentage of votes to be expressed in the proportion of members of the Parliament, the fifth rule must be excluded and the number of members should be increased. A fine first step, though, would be if the Ministers were to step aside as members of the council. However, those in positions of authority who have been hired have not wanted to change. Theirs is the adventureful unfair democracy we live in, democracy that can make more of a part of my terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u17	Mr. President. Poorness is a term that we often have on our tongue. We know it too well. Thousands of Icelanders in all age groups live in poverty, a senseless shortage. Especially do older people live in unbecoming situations, clean poverty, low - income problems. Stefán Ólafsson, a former professor at the University of Iceland and specialist at Ephlinga, has recently discussed the interest in pensioners, and he is expected to be a report on this persistent material based on the massive assessment of the pension system. He deals there with social security and pension funds, how they are affected by the income of pensioners and disability, and how the use of social insurance systems is controlling the low - income problems of a pensioner. He argues that both social security and pension levels are far too low. The fact is, the Icelandic State's expenses for pension are one of the lowest known ones among developed Western countries. When it comes to the overall welfare system, it is clear that Iceland is among the countries in OECD, which defend most of the land's production for welfare. There's Iceland way behind the northern countries. Despite the small government expenditures for pension pay, the strong trend has been that the tax burden of pensioners has grown dramatically since 1990. In the vast majority of OECD countries, we have specific tax appeals for pension recipients, but there is no such thing in Iceland. On the other hand, big - money earners get huge tax favors, which is 22% tax from high - paying capital earners, but the tax is 47% as working people and pensioners have to pay off their highest income, if we can say so. The worst - hit groups in terms of loss of social security are low-payers, women, disability, and immigrants. [[The president calls.]] It's a political bitch that we just don't give comfort at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u18	A respectable president. On March 2 of the past, my request and 26 members of the council were accepted that a medical minister be assigned to report, the review of how the procedure for screening for women's cervical cancer was conducted. The request states that consultations should be made with members of the council to find an independent party to the project. According to Congress, this report should introduce us at the council here next week. It is quite clear that it is not. No group of members of the council know that they have heard from a health minister about this work and what is to come, and this morning it was at a meeting of the welfare committee that none of the experts in the press know that they have received any information or digesting that this work was about to start off on the part of the minister. So I ask the president what the situation is, and I request that this information be revealed in view of the fact that this report will be scheduled for next week's council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u19	The President may be able to inform that he has agreed with his first report request had a conversation with... [[THOSE: That's me.]] Then the President is confusing reports and asking for respect. President thought this was under a report. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson would be the first to wait. But it's not. Then a little president can answer the question, but it's a good thing to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u20	Mr. President. This is a report request, as indicated by the question of the question. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Sigríðjardóttir, request a medical report for the change in plans for the screening for cervical cancer to be performed. A number of members of the council, including the one listed here, responded to this request and were accepted by the council. The matter is urgent, and that's why we're looking for a team president of the entire council, that he will push in later on that question. There are thousands of women outside the community who have no answers that have already been shown. Also, there are doctors outside the community who do not get answers about the results that have even come. This appeared at a meeting of the welfare committee this morning, and we were authorized to report it in a public field, official authority. This is a serious matter. It has to do with women's health, but it also focuses on the interests of the families of all these thousands of women who live in complete uncertainty about their health. [[The president calls.]] It's unannounced. We need to start getting this report. However, it seems that the necessary work has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u21	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with what's happened here. To me, it's very serious, and that's why we need to understand this as soon as possible. It was handled well by a commentator. We had visitors to a welfare committee this morning, experts who are not at all pleased with what started. They weren't consulted. They do not have access to laboratory tests in Denmark. They can't call a friend. They can't call coal, they don't know anything. We have to do better than that. I encouraged the highest. A health minister earlier to change his mind, and I'll repeat that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u22	Mr. President. Here's a serious piece of information coming out of a meeting. The welfare committee this morning. Changes in women's cervical and breast cancer screening have been in complete dismay. The reason for making the decision to change the procedure is unclear. The action has been misinformed and badly organized and generally misinformed to women and their partners, who have caused insecurity, distrust, and fear of getting results from screening months after women have applied it. Working on a request for this potentially serious women's health issue is not started and if not in some way, there's some serious information we're getting here from a meeting. The welfare committee. Mr. President. It is absolutely unannounced that there are no signs of starting work to produce the report that the World of Congress has called. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the president to work on the report that the council calls for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u23	A respectable president. Listening to the welfare committee discussion this morning, I kind of got a big mouth open. A man has often listened to an amazing mess, but kind of the first thing I could think of was: Guð God I'm not a woman and I'm not at risk of cervical cancer. It seems that every step in that matter has been screwed up and that this sample is being sent to Denmark and in a way that makes it all possible for it to go wrong too. We are under obligation to see to it that this is done more fully, especially with those who are in such a situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u24	Mr. President. On the top of February, 14,000 people in this amazingly complicated time spent on Facebook page called Visit to Women's Health, because it was what a doctor at the City Hospital called treatment and conducted screening for breast and cervical cancer in women. If you look at that page now, pay attention to it, then every day there are new stories of women who live in fear because they even have signs that they have changes in their cells or early stages of cancer, and they have no answers. Some of these have been waiting for months, Mr. President. This is not tolerated. I have to admit, if the health minister and her staff don't take a step now and put this report back on the ground, their shame is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u25	President. Yes, there was a little surprise at this morning's committee meeting how badly this project was prepared, and real harm has resulted from the project of carrying out the vision to Denmark in this way. How vital it is that no one was recognized as having any work on this report! This is of utmost importance because the report has either not been started or has not yet been contacted by the major professionals and experts who need to consult this report. Both are very serious. So I assume that the president contacts the health minister and examines the situation on this report and we get answers here as soon as possible because we have to analyze this case, not just to fix the situation as it is now, but to prevent this sort of mistake from happening again. It seems that some decision was made without evidence, without expertise, and without necessary reason why this route was gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u26	President. I think it's kind of hard to believe that this report has not started. Sadly, though, this is not surprising because the health system has shown so much disrespect to people who are buried in the womb and then only trust in them all the time, I think. There are a number of stories, not just around a cervical sample and a lack of adequate self - examination, but, in fact, everything that concerns people within the medical system. I'm incredibly sorry to hear this, and I hope there's some serious action to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u27	Mr. President. This is all the strangest thing to say. Sadly, though, that is the nature and severity of the wording. This also points to the fact that at times it may appear to be in the process of execution, at the highest level. Ministers, restrictions are being made to respond to your report request. You feel that there may be some connection with the subject and whether it would be uncomfortable for the minister to answer. It is true that there is a small delay in reporting. But it is not good to know when any evidence suggests that the report is not even started once the deadline has passed. [[The president calls.]] They do not know well, and they seem to suggest that everything they can do should be done to prolong it as much as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u28	Mr. President. I'm gonna start by dragging a president into the country in half. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir was the first official of our report. However, when we began to miss a hearing, I had been premeditated to discuss the report with the president. Still, a few weeks ago. Reports received from a meeting of a health committee this morning support the suspicion that this work has not begun, at least not with the merits that the General agreed to do to a minister. In addition, when it comes to a poor - thought - provoking decision with a vague benefit and repetitious act, you also begin to realize that this work did not take place at the beginning of this career. I would have thought that this report could only have been printed by pressing keyboards because the information requested would have been fundamental to this journey. Well, it sure wasn't. Then I'm going to say this, "Histv." Ministers, such as others, even more than others, need to find the reverse when driving themselves and the health care providers into the ditch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u29	A respectable president. I certainly do not have a place on a welfare committee, but in this regard, it is a serious matter and cannot help but accept the harsh criticism that health ministers will experience by going out in this matter, and in fact, it adds, in my opinion, the long sinner secretary when it comes to health management. I have criticized them both in speech and in writing how to handle matters there. We look at this in replacement operations where hundreds of people could be put to relief by negotiating with an independent working company here in the country. We see that medical services could be solved on South Sides by allowing them to be operated on by independent health care. The findings set up in the capital area solved the waiting list problem and increased the service level. There are many such steps I don't agree with, that there's this shift in progress, and I just can't sign it at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u30	A respectable president. It is very important to have all the details in this matter. It's a very strange decision-making thing that leads to our sending samples to Denmark for a very important class. The conclusion is quite interesting. The fact that a minister seems to ignore the precautionary requirements set out in the report request, that he should have an independent party, or consult a body of members, suggests a measure of defense because the decision was definitely made there. If a minister can win the report himself and not take in those persons who can irrespective of whether it is a basis for taking the necessary steps to examine them, that is not a very good thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u31	Mr. President. The preparation of cervical cancer screening lasted for two years, but somehow it was achieved to screw up the process so that everything was up at the time of the transfer. The data requested in the report request we've been discussing here in the conference management should all of us have had the last fall. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said that it should have been enough to push the authorities on a computer at the Ministry Department, and then this report would have just been ready. Instead, the Ministry has chosen to use nine out of the ten weeks it has according to the Senate to report to the Generals to do nothing, to do nothing at this request of 26 members of Congress approved by all votes in this chamber. Mr. President. This is a disrespect to the Council, and this is a disgrace to the women who are sorry for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u32	Mr. President. It is very important to understand this subject that we have discussed, this request. I'm aware of the fact that and no doubt the number of members at the Ministry has already begun with the report. However, I do not know exactly who the Ministry is or which people they have appointed. I think it's therefore important that the president plan the exact work and location of this job. This is of great importance, especially in view of the fact that this is a delicate service, often a time of extremely sensitive clients, and it is important that we get the sense of it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u33	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear a word that's spoken. The president means that he will consider this matter. Of course, that does not change, for this proposal has been accepted. All timelines were clear and lighted in that field. In view of the great and heavy discussion in the community, most of the women who know it understand and know that this is a basic medical service but also on the part of experts and health workers. It is a matter of sore nerves to the point that it is my sincere desire that these words of ours be heard today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u34	Mr. President. It is important to note two things. On the one hand, the last two sentences of the report request adopted by the Council by the President: In the opinion of the Rapporteurs, the review of the above factors will best be performed by an independent source. It is desirable to consult with members of a body of members for the independent party that will be assigned to the work. This is the key to what we are pointing at today. On the other hand, even though it may be the dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, 1st Presidency Committee and Congressman Left Green of the Council. A health minister, claims to have knowledge of that, on his own, that a report has begun, and there has been nothing to ask of her. No members of the council have ever had a melancholy comment on the beginning of this work. There is no house-to-house consultation on which members of the individual team are to meet this report. This is not an opinion of some local institution in the future. This is a view of conditions now in which doctors and clients are not informed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what's serious because it's about women's health today, not in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u35	Mr. President. Information now. The vice president of the welfare committee throws a very low light on this case, a kind of ghost light, because, like a dog, it's a bad thing. A senator and head of the welfare committee, Helga Vala Helgaa Helgadóttir, noted that the members of Congress were asked to attend, and this was not for no reason. That request was made precisely because of the knowledge we thought we had and because of reactions; on one side of the kit, there were two counselors, and on the other side all the others. We have nothing for a report to do on this committee, two counseling ministers. We'd like to have a professional assessment of this operation. Therefore, it is a ghost light that has nothing to do with information, for the information of the Department of Health for the International Health and Information Ministers of Health and the World Health Organization, and for the many women with health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u36	A respectable president. I don't want to belittled because it's important that we follow the local council regulations on the process set out by a report request. But I can't stay in this discussion when it seems that the need for an impartial third party should be entrusted to the minister. Here, I believe the council is completely off track. A petition to the minister is that the Minister come to the council and explain his position, execute his law, his responsibility. However, when the council is repeatedly assigned counselors to report, specifically stating that it must be performed by someone other than the Minister himself, he must not put his fingerprints on the case, but then the Minister should return with the report and be responsible for what is in it - this is absolute confusion, a respected president. And the council should have a proper view of its own in asking for a third - party report to be prepared. Why can't the Council itself make a decision on this committee scene to assign any third independent person to look at specific matters and not to mix with a minister? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u37	As the president noted, he is always willing to examine the situation in order to inform about it. However, it should be noted that after the Council has agreed to a secretary's report request, this request is added to the request for the administrative and legal responsibility of the local minister. The President of the Generalis has no component authority in that subject. It is then the minister responsible for the report, both political and legal. This is on the basis of General Assembly decision to implement this procedure. In part, the president wants to agree with the highest power. The Secretary of Economics and Economics that the Council really needs to make it up to itself if it itself wants to control who is involved in making a report, setting up a case for e.g. the process of asking the State Accounting as an independent party for this, because the problem that arises, as president, hopes that he has been able to explain without allowing it all in the air, that after the Council has asked the secretary for the report, the legal and political responsibility will not be taken from the Minister. That is how it is, and it should not be necessary to have much more to say. However, the president repeats that he is ready to investigate the situation and shall be informed from this chair when he has received something to inform and hope that it may result in the completion of this discussion. Do they keep wanting to continue talking about this matter to the President's conference board? Yes, man does. Those who have not fully received their rights can do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u38	Mr. President. First, I want to draw attention to the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The president of the Generals both signed this request with the format on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u39	On request?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u40	Under the request. So men must only be at home to see if they have agreed... [[Up front.]] You agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u41	...not under a request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u42	You approved the case here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u43	...with these comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u44	Not with this comment. [[Foreground on: No.]] Speaking of some formalities here at the council, I pray to the highest degree. A minister to use the speaker to communicate with me if he chooses to. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the serious issue is that there is no evidence that the Ministry is having discussions with all the major experts. That's the serious thing, and I don't think it's gonna work out well because people here plan to hang themselves in some form of formality about how the request is made. [[The president calls.]] The report has been requested. [[The president calls.]] The General Assembly has accepted the request and the minister is under obligation to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the President for a good word about listening to this report. But I have to admit that I'm responding to the highest possible response. The minister of this discussion is totally incomprehensible to me. I don't know what heart condition it is to come up here and pour bad reports on the state of Congress because he's been asking for a report on a case that concerns hundreds of women at least and their health and their lives. To come here and pour bad reports over a world of council because of this request is just completely incomprehensible to me, Mr. President. I think a secretary of finance would be more anxious to work on it and to follow that this report is delivered in some legitimate way and that the information necessary is presented as soon as possible, instead of a mood for the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u46	I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the commitment of life insurance rights and pension funds, no. 129/1997, on the use of special requirements. The bill's on the roof. 1338 and No. 768. The bill suggests that persons's access to tax-free provision and the assessment of the additional tax pay for special savings in connection with the development of home housing for their own use and payment on the headhouse bar will be extended by two years, or on June 30, 2020. The evidence was last extended about two years, and it will remain unsolved from June 30. This consists of two measures originally legalized in 2014 to three years as part of the Government's Management Plan on the head of the mortgage. Time has been extended twice and for two years. The second extension was part of what the government presented for the biographies of the labour market contracts in April 2019. Thus, both measures have been stable for nearly seven years and have about 59 of you. a person who takes advantage of it sometime between July 2014 and March 2021, but more than 82 billion were paid out for financial services. The bill then contains secondary changes in the income tax law to ensure the rights of continued tax freedom in the use of resources. A respectable president. Some have been called for an extension of the options discussed in the bill. This has given rise to a well - being, has proved to be a better choice for thousands of Icelanders, and has contributed to a faster production of individual property and families in the housing market. In view of this, it is proper to agree with the request for this bill's contribution. Yet, as we have been before, it has been decided that it is temporary. To say this, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u47	A respectable president. I have heard a lot about the last few years why this law is not made permanent. It is constantly being extended, and there are always good reasons, but it seems as if people just don't know if they want it to be a permanent part of this system, the whole idea behind how we guarantee survival when people are old and out of work. The highest. A minister may share with us some of the main interests of opinion, if the opinion that I assume came up, at any rate informally, has come up with us, about the possibility of making these provisions permanent? Of course, I realize that this is not without criticism. There is tax freedom, which may seem fair to some people, it could be one of the friends. On the other hand, I personally feel that having a home is a need that will remain when people stop working and allow people to be free from debt at that age is also a desirable goal. That is why I find the interesting thought and discussion of making this arrangement permanent, so I would love to hear every thought at its height. A minister can share with us in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u48	A respectable president. We began this journey in a condition where homes had become an independent, economic problem. They were too heavy, and we went into debt, and then we opened up for this possibility. We've advanced our options a few times, but in the middle, we decided to split up the conversation. On the one hand, to continue with the authority for everyone to take out their tax-free ownership savings on mortgages and to place permanently on the law for the review of special property savings to the first apartment buyers who can either collect a head count for their own housing or a new property savings system over a set period of time with criteria for each year so that it would ease their rates and help them to reduce debts. Thus, we have taken our stand on this matter that the freedom of the tax is an option we want to use for the first shopkeepers, and in fact, we have opened up the possibility that those who have not owned a home for five years can do the same. But for others who have benefited from my tax freedom - as if in my case, there are 84 billion already out of the system for that purpose - we have thought that we have achieved the main goals we were going to pursue. They will be followed by the section of the specialised population, the basic objective of the special delivery system; the third support of the pension savings, the permission to evaluate from 60 years of age, the specific social security rules, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u49	A respectable president. I'm, with all due respect, not sure I'm much closer. I now see it as a custom to deposit on mortgages. In my opinion, there is very little more sense to repair your money if you have a property and a loan for it. But there is another reason why I ask, and she is that this is not entirely flawless, especially when it comes to equality. As shown in the bill's report, these different groups differ in different groups, e.g. pay men higher due to higher pay and this will suit them better than women, women more rentable, etc. And would rather be in a rented market than men, apparently. But in order to cope with such challenges, I think that this plan would require some long - term work. That's why I'm asking something about this because I think this is a good idea. However, questions such as why there is no taxation are raised, not merely getting back money from a pension fund, are raised. How can you meet the sex - sex palace that comes from this? Is that the way? However, in order to get to that point, we need to look to the future in these topics and see how long we will have these options. If it gets extended again after two years, which I kind of expect to be the case, we've missed a little of the time we could have spent trying to figure out solutions to the problems that have come up. I feel that this has an advantage to be a temporary arrangement for organization, despite being increasingly extended and therefore being in character for a longer time than originally intended. This is the problem I want to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u50	A respectable president. In order to answer all these opinions, we really need to have a clear view of the special delivery system, this additional pension system, and ask us for the purpose of this system. If we run back, it's perfectly clear that this was supposed to be a third support in pensions, not a special housing strategy. But even Because there's been a lot of pension savings in Iceland and because housing debt had become an independent financial problem we temporarily opened up to this possibility. If we want to take up a discussion of making that system more permanent, we need to take a broader discussion on this third foundation. About the flaws of your head. A member of the council might want to answer this by pointing to another bill that lies here at the council and discussing the specified special property. In the specified special property, this criticism is presented for those who have lost their income because with the specified special property, which is a new percentage of pensional savings by 3.5%, there is the possibility that a person who has not been able to use the full right to evaluate the special property savings may make up for the specified property and have it taken it and have it taken care of his home with lack of taxes. This enables us to equalize the groups as well as the rest of our lives. A senator was worrying about it. This is the thought behind the specified special property and its use in this regard. But then there are other aspects of the matter that are clearly controversial here at the council and what it is about to be done in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u51	A respectable president. I agree that there would have to be some permanent remedy in this context. The real estate situation today is ridiculous. The packaging does not sell its price, but it does not sell far above the calculated price, and even high above that point, so that the person who is going to be invited to an apartment and owns a special savings system is not even able to control the excess. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he is concerned that this measures will benefit only those who have a good salary and who have good backs. I see, for example. not how a person should be able to benefit from this. He'll never be able to raise money because the increase in the market is so great. Besides, he's in the position if he's going, for example. taking share loans doesn't exist in apartments. Then, the latest evidence is that in the process of inflation, building costs are about to rise dramatically because timber has increased and it looks like it's going to rise by about 30 to50%. The cost will thus get even more out of control. So I ask, is it the highest? The secretary of finance with any solution for individuals who are trying to buy, or who are at the lowest rate of pay, to benefit from this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u52	A respectable president. Of course, it's just around the corner. A senator that in times of high levels of housing and possessions, the price of high prices is high, and the buyers are not in the position to choose and reject. That is true of all participants on that market. On the other hand, we must agree that perhaps because of such conditions on the market, it is having this option to lighten up with those who are planning to enter the house market. Of course, how much people can rely on that choice depends on their individual circumstances and resources. You're absolutely right. A senator less is involved, less to play on the less pay, as there are some percentages of the pay being paid. But there is no law other than that in general about the pay. A person with a higher salary is more likely to pass payment on expensive possessions. So here I refer to what was previously presented in my case as to the bill I've already recommended and to the so-called special property, methodology designed for commercialized people, to use recent reforms to help people in the general market that they're enjoying 15.5% of the previous 12% pricing fees. That bill discusses the practical benefits of this new 3.5%.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. In connection with this specific property, it has been referred to as going directly to the pension fund. Is it not, then, only that the individual will be allowed to determine the specific property, how to produce and how to apply it for bearing fruit? Then, too, it would be good to know which policy of government is involved in the design of a housing market. Is the government doing something to resist? The currently inserted regulations should apply to June 2023. Is there anything that makes sure that within that time the situation in an apartment market will be better? I don't see any signs of it. There is also another, there is not even talking about taking the place out of the index. This has often been required because it also has a tremendous impact on inflation. Is there such a problem with the government to protect ourselves against the state we seem to be entering now, inflation and thawing? What is the government doing about it? What is its course?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u54	A respectable president. The management of the government's housing activities is discussed in reports made up by the Department of Social Affairs and I believe that they will be made public over the next few days, i.e. that the report will provide a summary of the wide range of resources that the government has presented in order to bring relief to the public. We've done a lot of that here through the council. I mention the share loan as one of the big parts of the speech and a great system change in that subject. We have also been making many other adjustments, all aimed at lowering the threshold to the housing market. However, in spite of all government action that is often a little more specific, I think that no single operation has helped people to cope with such efforts as creating an environment for less growth and more stability. Of course, growth, the lowest house interest in the world, is the greatest positive step for home life. Then, how can we try to influence the house market? Don't we just have to agree that at a housing market the price will eventually depend on supply and demand? Here are some basics that always come to mind. It is the cost of building, as it were. A senator came in, but the buyfulness of his homes also matters. As home has greater potential, better apartments and even larger and more materials are built. And the more people bite about their apartments, the more the tensions you'll feel on the market. Our role, in cooperation with our rural society, is, in fact, making sure that there is a balance between supply and demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u55	President. It's always tempting to talk about the housing system when it comes to pensions because it's really the other half of the pension system in Iceland. Having a debtless roof over your head when your career ends is actually the key to surviving a pension. If you have to pay off a mortgage while people are in general seeing it, it just doesn't work. This goes hand in hand, only to toil out your life to gain a debt roof over your head and, on the other hand, to pay for a pension fund at the end of your career. That's how our pension system is set up today. The second part is usually missing, i.e. The structure of housing and, as discussed earlier, the actual appearance of supply and demand to all who strive to make a debt of housing before retirement. It actually ignores the group of people who choose not to complete a special part of the pension system and are in rent. It is a very difficult task to deal with because it is not even taken into account in the pension system. The share of pensions in Iceland is not fully organized. We still deal with a few gaps in rent issues, supply and demand, especially in social housing, and there's a huge difference between partners in how it is handled. Of course, the additional is fine for himself and is due exactly to those who can collect special property savings and is a part of the puzzle. This is certainly just what people have and is part of the pension system, either solved in their pocket money, what people have in pension after a career, or in a debt of debt over their heads. It is up to people to decide whether the special savings will go into extra allowances or extras and sooner to pay off the mortgage debt. What remains are these gaps for people trapped in their rent system, fixed in the situation that they cannot even get into social housing, and followed by how they actually finish their lives outside this classic system of living in debt and living off pension for the rest of their lives. Anyone who's out of it gets into trouble over and over again. It has never been finished to answer how to meet them in an organized manner. There are all kinds of patches here and there, and when they come together with the impairments here and there simply becomes too much poverty trap to allow us to wrestle with it in any way. The system has become complex that there are enormously few people who understand, when it comes to messing with one part of the system, how it affects overall. There is no easy decision to make in this regard. This is about the use of special property savings, which is one part of the puzzle, only one that is most useful to those who can use their special property. It's a good alternative, but it totally ignores the whole picture that really needs to be considered that if it's not going to be a problem for us to face the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u56	A respectable president. I'm going to throw up a few speculations on this matter that do not involve solid and final opinions. Rather, I'd rather bring them up for a discussion before the conference and the general public. If people want to scold me for my bad views, I'm offering them this time because I think it's a reason for them when we look at the pension fund, and especially the sort of resources that are suggested here to be extended, i.e. that we can use our special property taxlessly on a mortgage, that we think only of the future. I'm interested in how people manage to save or park in communities where there is no operating pension fund, at least not that people trust and want to use. Then some middle - class family might invest in an apartment and invest in another and over the years try to have both of them, and then in the later years, they would rent out to younger ones in order to earn some income without having to work as a team. In other words, people create their own planetary treasure system by using this method. Another is that when people reach their age, they still need housing. It doesn't necessarily need a car, it depends on people's circumstances, it doesn't necessarily have to have the same things they once had, once again depending on the circumstances of the people, but it needs a roof over their heads, and it doesn't depend on people's circumstances. As a result, my opinion is that we should think of the pension system that is extremely close to the housing system, in particular the holding of people of their own housing in older years, not necessarily during their working years. Then people can often rent and be nice like that, and a lot of people actually want to rent instead of having housing, and there are certain advantages that come with it, at least in the presence of a healthy tenant environment, which I'm not sure is the case in Iceland today. This strategy that came here after the collapse of 2013, if I remember correctly, good if it wasn't in the summer of 2013, has been very well, I've heard of the inquiry. People who use these resources love them very much because they help them reduce their debt and thus live in favor of the future, the very future that we are trying to secure by the pension system. Of course, loans in Iceland are just a more complicated phenomenon than those in other countries because here we have insurance, but our pensions have the goal of giving 3.5% of the experience, which many people I talk to find unlikely to be realistic. But it looks like it's different to who. At least I think it's a little loud, and most people think it's more like it, but maybe they'll make it. Whatever the case, the expected fruitage is extremely high. If she doesn't get caught, it tells itself that the fruit will not be high unless the pension funds reach the goals of their investments, which we don't know in advance whether the case will be done or not, but, of course, hope to be done. However, house prices have a very long - term tendency to go up to the top, natural. Even if people do not grow enough to contribute to a higher price of housing, living facilities must always be maintained. Even if population growth is not as high in the future as it has been during the past few decades, it can still be expected that shelter prices will rise in general, at least along with prices and likely something if property is properly maintained. As a result, and this is why housing is used as a firm foundation investment, low - risk investment, that it is a good investment for an individual who can afford to invest in a home, whether it is his own home or a place to rent to younger people or people who want to be rented. That market is totally normal. It is not some unusual concept or anything we should avoid. We're supposed to try to have a healthy lease that guarantees the rights of the people who rent and the likes of them and where guards are tried so that people can handle it, they don't rent more money or something like it. That's where we can get to the point. Whatever the case, it is also well known that when funds are about to make high - risk investments, it is possible to invest in some associated housing for the same reasons. It is a risky investment that may be worth long - term. However, they need immune capitals because they are not trying to get catch - up. Rather, they are thought of for a long time. That is exactly the same financial goal that we are setting for ourselves by paying for a pension fund. That's exactly the same goal. That is why I find it quite normal, with the merits I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that I am a little more involved with sharing my thoughts here than with the ultimate conclusion that we think of the housing system and the pension system together; that it is part of the same and comparable financial goals of individuals. In favor, we're not going to, I suppose, to live in such a way that people who are old and unable to work anymore, at least not as much as before, land on the street. Now, I'm just gonna save my fist about what we're doing wrong there. There are a lot of things we're doing wrong about the social security system. I'll wait on it for you. I'm just saying that our ambition is that people of old age can stop working and still be pretty. That's the goal of the pension system. If we achieve the same goal by building an incentive for people to have their own home in debt, it is something that I think we should carefully consider whether we can be part of the overall budget. In short, it means stopping ever extending to this provision, which is suggested here to be extended and to make it permanent. But it's not entirely impregnable, this remedy, as if I briefly crossed to the top. Secretary of finance. There is not necessarily a lot of equality in this process as it is today. For example, men in general have a higher salary, whether because they work more or whatever. This means that they can put more emphasis on special property and, as a result, can use this resources better and more than women, and they can get more tax returns than women, and that is not good. It also raises some questions, e.g. If under certain income limits, a higher dollar than just a percentage, perhaps a personal discount in the income tax system or the like, could be used so that less earners can use a higher proportion of their income in this way, and thus, at least, the same taxes as those with higher income. That's one idea. I don't know if it's good because it hasn't been examined. It's just an idea. Another idea is certainly more radical than anything I think is perfectly normal to examine seriously, i.e. ... makinga collectionof tax-free pensions. That may be a particularly radical idea these days when we see that the percentage of older people will rise in a very near future in Iceland, as well as in many parts of the world. It makes it easier to work when more people are working, who are actively involved in the economy, and a larger part of the economy becomes people who either can't work or have limited work ability at least; they are only in their age that they work less and want to work less. This is something we always have to think for a long time. It is a key and is, in fact, the reason why I call for us to look at these regulations so that we will make them permanent, although only to look at the future with them glasses. Now, this strategy has been available for eight years, and this summer it will be eight years. It's a pleasure. There are known problems with it, that reduces the future income tax, we're a little borrowing it from the future as mentioned. There is this imbalance between the sexes and, of course, income groups, and no doubt, it is just a matter of how easily people have knowledge of this. There is a larger discussion on financiallocks and access to financial resources, a matter of itself. But to get into these questions, to ask them some seriously, and so we get to the point of making analysis and wondering if any of these are really good ideas, whether any of this is not going to work out, whether any of these things are a good idea, despite not looking well at first or something like it, we need to think about this process for a long time, for decades, as part of the patient long-term investment as the pension fund of being and hopefully. That's why I'd call this law to be that way in our discussion here. In spite of this, I am not entirely confident that I will make some adjustments in this particular case to make the arrangement permanent because it is important for me to go to this analysis. Now at this point, when we are constantly extending this provision for new reasons that come up just as time goes on, we are somehow doing the worst in both worlds. We do not think about this for a long time, nor do we stop. This means that we are, in effect, creating a longer term resort that is intended for a shorter period of time. This makes me a little bit scared because we just keep living with these problems that go along with this, inconsistencies to form between sex and income groups and we're borrowing tax revenues from the future without taking it into account or asking at least the fair questions: Why is it that people who don't use the resources to pay a full income tax when they're going to use their pension rights in the future and have been rented all their lives so that they just couldn't use it? These are questions that matter, a respectable president. Then we need to think in context. Then we'll have to think about it for a long time. That's what I'm calling at the highest. Secretary of finance to investigate this with a little more serious, i.e., to be more specific, to consider the link that people have a home for their own use in the upper years and the pension system. I think it's a linked subject, in my opinion. On top of that, I wondered if it can in a certain way be more healthy if individuals in the position of making their own pension money, their own money fund, can do it as part of this pension fund. We're required in short because of that -- tja, now all I have to do is insult our dear animal species -- that we don't think for long. There's the same reason why we have high school responsibilities. If we don't have this obligation, we know exactly what's going to happen; people will be less educated. And if it's not required, people will not save. It'll always find something more important, and it's just part of our nature as animal species and nothing about doing anything except having made sense to me. But the fact that we leave this obligation at a pension fund is something I think is a good reason to revise. If people are making their own plans for the older years and they can somehow predict it, I think that's quite enough. An individual in the position of acquiring, e.g. an apartment over the years to rent out or have such a plan, something that is safe and risky, as if real estate investments are usually, at least if the cards are well kept, should be able to do so to a greater degree. But I'll finish my speech with what I started, it's meditation. These are not final opinions, not consistent suggestions. But if people want to get ashamed of the senator who doesn't know anything about these matters, I'm happy to say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u57	Mr. President. May 16, 2014, the day the sun shone back on Icelandic homes. It was the day on which the correction of debt was approved here at the General Assembly and had been taken under the lead. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, then prime minister. Part of the correction, the action, was that men could use their special property savings to reduce their housing debts. In short, Mr. President, this was a very successful operation. Perhaps there is one effect of this operation on what the bill says on the subject. 3 Over the course of effect assessment, with permission of the maximum. President: ▪ The complete capacity of the talks, ◯ - i.e. using the special savings to reduce housing loans - 82 billion years. since their conversion in force in the middle of 2014 and 59 thousand people have made use of them sometime between July 2014 and March 2021. Of that amount, about 4 billion can. Remuneration for the sale of property has been paid for by some 5 thousand, but more part, about 78 billion dollars, has been paid into the capital loans during the period. We can see from this, Mr. President, both benefits and benefits from this case as presented today, i.e. To extend this law two years ago. I'd like to say something with a little bit of what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, who said in his speech earlier that we actually associate with this case, as with short-term and long-term outcomes. There's something to be true, and I think that may be one reason why this plan has not been as useful and as much for those who are collecting for the first payment and for those who are paying on the head seat of their loans. That's what I'm saying because even though this case is a good thing, there are some flaws. One of my problems is that this is still working at the same amount each year, which is the same amount as in 2014, but the price today is naturally different. It is also another thing, Mr. President, which I would like to point out, and in fact, I hadn't thought very much until now, but it is the fact that according to this bill, and as the law is now, an individual can save or save for a tax-free amount of 500,000 dollars. In a year, 750,000 a couple. I ask myself, " Why are individuals and couples being dealt with in this way? ' Why can't a couple raise a million dollars? It would seem to me that in particular, a couple who are saving money on an apartment can have over 750,000 dollars. I really hope to say, Mr. President, this two things, i.e. today's price balance and equality between individuals and family members or couples will simply be corrected in the treatment of the case on the committee, so that this will be of greatest benefit. We'll also see how the correction I made earlier worked. In the years since then, the debt of Icelandic households has been largely one of the lowest in the north. However, before this operation began to be effective, the Icelandic home was in a very deep debt. I believe in that, Mr. President, that precisely this aspect, i.e. that Icelandic homes have been less debtable than homes elsewhere and will benefit people now, when the Covid situation has taken a heavy bite, and will bite even worse when people go to striped unemployment settlements. I really hope that this resources and the use of them so far will come by skimming many of the home over the cuttle that the Covid situation certainly is. I mean, it's a good thing to say, but it's got limitations and flaws that I was reporting. Then I can't let it go. The minister of finance made a subject of his earlier speech when he considered the government's provisions for housing. He specifically mentioned the share loans, but the share loans as they are now installed, Mr. President, of the social and child - care minister are illusions or mirages. This operation is limited to 400 apartments per year, and the conditions, the scores set, are in order to meet the conditions set in the terms of sharing loans, the size and price of apartments, not to be found, Mr. President, here in the capital area. They don't exist. This is also because it is under conditions and conditions in the law that in the capital area, these resources are only used to buy new apartments. A new apartment at this price, Mr. President, does not exist in the capital area and will not exist at the next semester. This is quite complete because the capital is still being built here in expensive areas and is still being built, with the share of the value of each apartment being very high. Unfortunately, the share factor is a mirage, it's an illusion; it's an election bomb that has nothing or slights unchanged. According to that, I'd also wanted to go over something bigger than this, that's the structure of Iceland's pension rights, which is as we all know in very different ways from those who work in a private market and those who work for the state. At that time, I hope I still have to balance that situation considerably. It was, for example. It was noteworthy - because I was on a committee that was revising these rights at the time under the command of the late name Pétur Blöndalur, which I accepted when Pétur fell away - that the groups of people who lose the rights of pension are usually women. It is not surprising, since women have so far been usually paid less than men. But it is not only sanctified by this, Mr. President, but also because today, in her late teens, many women who worked little or nothing. They were what are called homework, and all the decades of such women are worthless. I'd like to draw up another example, Mr. President, because it has to do with the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the Ministry of finance. It's a matter of business that's about to start and hopefully we'll be drafted now. The matter has been held up for three years, but there is a lawsuit that the Banker's Pension Fund has established on finance ministers and state funds because some of the funds belonging to what has been called the old section of bank pensions. Many banking institutions agree to correct this distinction and injustice, including the U.S. Sedlabanki and others, while Iceland's Landsbank, the bank of all the people of the country, 98.3% of the nation of all nations, has refused to correct this situation. And who will that be, Mr. President? Yes, there were women, women who were in the U.S. advance force in the past, served as ministers, cashiers, and received people at the bank's branch offices, many with a very long career. In itself, many had done nothing but work at the Lands Bank. The end of the Lands Bank became tragic in the collapse, a bank that had been active since 1886 collapsed in a few stages because of its encounter with bad people, the conversion necessary to restore the bank, and to its feet, this meant that there was a lot of these women, not a very large group, before a table. If we look at the financial interests that the state would need to achieve or take on account of this alone, that is, Mr. President, the cleanest change. There is, of course, one thing that is gained by going this way, using your special property as a means of paying off your mortgage or saving up for your first house. Sadly, some of the investments of the pension funds we are paying have not been very successful. It's, for example. It is of great interest that a few years ago, when I visited the technical firm Assur, which is more than part owned by Danish pension funds, and at the time of the start of selling a share in Auss for real - and now I'm only doing this as just one example, Mr. President, they're many - and Icelandic pension funds, it's probably been at the end of 2004-2006, saying the Pension Funds: No, thanks, we're investing in the Icelandic account because the fruitage is much more than if we buy the stocks in the AO. It's easy to be wise afterwards, Mr. President, but the examples of these dierent pensions are just so many that you can't let go of saying that by going this way in the past, this part of our pension is going through the hands that have made many investment errors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u58	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in financial support law to a smaller company due to a pandemic crown virus, the laws on the maintenance strength and the income tax laws, the continuation of resources and improvements. The bill's on the roof. 1340 and No. 769. The bill is part of the government's efforts to reduce economic impacts by the pandemic crown virus and create a powerful resistance following it. It discusses three types of resources: closing strength, requisition strength, and child improvement. First, application deadlines for closing levels are suggested to be extended to September 30, 2021, which would have remained unchanged from June 30. Now, you may ask yourself, " Is this really necessary? But I'd like to mean that it's very little to extend this deadline, and here, of course, I'm suggesting that we hope we don't have to come to the end. However, it would probably be noted that there will be further closures during this period, and the same rules apply for closing power. At the same time, maximum funding levels are suggested to be raised from 120 million dollars. of 260 million. The maximum value is not for individual species only sponsors or individual operators but also the final concentration should be combined from mid-September 2020, revenue ratio, maintenance strength, and tourism to reach its maximum. It also holds the same peak for the business partners, so they divide up one maximum amount of money. It is suggested that the value value at this changed peak be increased on February 1, 2021, thus taking into account the time point when the European Commission raised the criteria in the provisional provision for the global support of the global economy for the pandemic. Second, it is suggested that the length of the maintenance process will be extended on November 2021 and that it will be permitted to apply for strength out of 2021. It is also suggested that the recruitment process be extended to add a new step of income loss to the law. This requires a minimum of 40% of income loss. This suggests that as a result of a drop of income between 40 and 60%, the sum of $300,000 will be paid. for each company position, but that the strength will not exceed 1.5 million per month. It is suggested that this new step be restarted from the law on standing scholarship in November 2020. It is also suggested that repairs made for less than one month's pay period during the application month are not considered to be valid in calculating the percentage of revenues during the application month. This is now such a technical point that we cannot miscalculate. It is important that this is quite clear to the revenue target, that the level of woodcutting for an older period does not calculate as the income in the under-month, but this is consistent with the lack of income reduction levels being considered to be out of the same calculation. Finally, maximum funding levels are suggested to rise from 120 million. K. of 260 million. K. The same criteria apply to calculation of the maximum value and validity in the case of closure fistula. Third, it is suggested that we legalize income taxes, No. 90/2003, added provision for temporary use. It will stipulate that under the pressures of public pay in 2021, as well as general child reforms, a special child's improvement will be paid for $30,000. with each child to those who receive a decided pediatric improvement, income related. Special child benefits do not include taxable income, and they do not reduce other income, such as government insurance benefits. In this way, special child benefits will not be equal in return to government funds and rural society or to the underdeveloped provisions. I have to say that the child's compensation is that this proposal is coming very late, and it's only a matter of time before stress. As a result of the project, the payment on these child benefits, the challenge will be to see if the council can be shaken. A respectable president. If they plan to reach no further meeting limit within the country, the effect of extending the application deadline due to shut-down recruitment will be very low if any and at least not exceeding what has already been predicted. It is estimated that the cost of further growth and expansion of the tree - control system may be 7.4 billion. but the amount of money is within the previous budget for the cost of the treatment. Here I must say that the provision of the provision made it possible for us to assess the results, and we are doing so and respond to this proposal. We see that paying response grants depend on what we plan to do, and we respond by reevaluating the procedure as required in the provisional agreement and extending it now. This is the basis for many of the lack of more than 60% of the income resources we're applying to, as they are in the law today, and we're therefore reducing this threshold. It is estimated that the cost of child reforming alone will finally be about 1.6 billion. By extension of the lock-and-sponsoring process, companies can continue to receive the necessary support if needed, when we are already in the final meters in the struggle with the epidemic and its economic impact. By doing this, we will increase awareness of the company's business environment, which will further enable them to take a active part in the more powerful European economy resistance to future losses. With changing income targets, we are listening to the tips that have been observed in stakeholders, learn from experience, thus reaching more people who have truly lost income because of the epidemic. Then a special child improvement guarantees continued support for families. It has been determined by the government that by powerful means the standard of living will be protected and promoted by quick and powerful economic benefits. The options have worked well. We have been able to protect ideal homes and shelter companies in the past month, and with these changes we are going to continue with people and companies on the final meters. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u59	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister before the story and for bringing this case here, this is clearly a case that can be of concern to many. However, Mr. President, the one standing here has received a number of indications from people who feel that they have carried a very small object from the present system. It's mostly monotonous, people who are operating on their own social security number, slf. Forms. The question is, Does the secretary of finance think that this case and the changes to take place here are in such a way that it should ensure the rights of this group better than has just recently been established? As I say, Mr President, this is not out of the open air. There's a number of people who've been comparing themselves to someone and saying they're dropping between ships and docks, and that's why they're gonna have to ask if they're highly regarded there. I've also had questions that lead to the fact that people who have unemployment records with children have often gone through difficult times, that I've come to terms with child support, and that I don't talk about women who are disabled and who are on unemployment, and that at birth, the unemployment rates fall down, but they go on a so - called birth strength that's naturally low enough for moderate food. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there are any issues I have mentioned in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u60	A respectable president. Now it's a little hard to figure out how to spend it. A senator leaves behind when he speaks of the dictators and what it is in the present support system that makes him feel that he does not qualify. At least I can. Pointed to a few things that I think matter. First, before this network of shoppers became valid and up until that time had a so - called system for income failure. Tension concentrations were made up until the penance levels were maintained. The extraction concentrations had a lower threshold for the loss of income, so it may be monotonous or other operators over the head, who had support on the basis of income loss, say in the earlier system, have driven themselves to this 60% threshold in the penile strength and thus experienced that they did not continue to have the same support as before, at least for this supportive system. Now we're changing this. So we are, in effect, reflecting the income folding system with a new credit factor for a income drop of 40 to 560 percent, and we restore it. I hope we can reach more parties, and if we look at the cost estimates below, there are, of course, expectations that we will reach much more parties. This, however, is not a change in maternity rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for this answer. In this answer, he well described how the lack of long - term vision by the government has been reflected in the action taken because it is constantly extending, changing, creating new thresholds. Instead of taking immediate action, as indicated at the time, including the time of the event. Of the members of the Central Party, and of effective long - term operations, that was the case at the highest level. Minister just described it, it was in butts. There are, of course, some things that have been very helpful to people and businesses. But I must ask, had it not been easier to listen to the voices that said at the outset that would really need to be taken at and in the long term and this would be predictable, etc. I must also ask for a very good statement, which as soon as this journey began, which was said to be more desirable and more likely to do more than less. That's why I must ask the highest. Minister whether he believes that the government has fulfilled what he himself proposed in the beginning of this journey, that the government would do more than less.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u62	A respectable president. Yes, I have to answer plainly that I believe that we have lived up to the big words that fell here in the first place, that it would be right to do more than less. You may have a different view of how much is enough than we have measurements. We can take pleasure in the actions. We can look at, in the latest report published by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Ecosystems on the effectiveness of the tools and how the distribution has been, how many have benefited from the debate, how much distribution is between enterprises, which areas of business are most supportive. When we answer these questions, we see that there is a complete correlation. So we're reaching out to the companies who are most in trouble. We're here with not only big companies but also small ones. It's a good distribution for the sponsors. In the case we discuss here, we are increasing the maximum financial values in line with the situation in the European Economic Area on State Sports, and I believe we are doing the right thing in it. I also feel that while we allow ourselves to make adjustments and adjustments in the process of delinquency, we do not give evidence that we are in some sort of butt class. On the contrary, I feel very happy that we decided to take this step now. This has been a good one, and I am absolutely convinced that this matter is positive and will contribute to the pursuit of both shelter and greater resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u63	Mr. President. Of course, it is positive that measures to meet these unusual economic conditions are corrected, updated accordingly. One may wonder, " How far was it predictable that things had to be different? ' It was, of course, a matter of opinion, such as the great demand for an enormous loss of income for strength and, of course, questions about the motive. In fact, it is interesting to consider some of the motives involved in government action. Nevertheless, we have supported all these measures, as we said we would do from the beginning, although the government did not want to go our way. In fact, I'm going to take this opportunity and make a note that she canceled all of the government's proposals for what to do to cope with this situation. In view of all the talking about cooperation in difficult circumstances, it seemed strange to me that the government would have a way of removing everything that came from a position of government. Let us, though, do so. Yet, most of these measures, many of which have made a big difference, are in common about moving on through difficult situations. These are short - term measures, and in many cases even some form of tranquilizers, which deal with the economic crisis. In addition, when companies get back on their way back to normal economic development, there is a danger. I wondered, " Could I have not been more concerned about the future effects of the operation? ' But what I think is a much larger question, why are the conditions in which the companies lived even before this epidemic and the economic hardships he has followed? Why are the measures made by governments not looked more forward to the future? Is the reason that there has really been a break, there has been a pause during the epidemic, and therefore no improvement, which, at least, has been observed very quickly before the pandemic? Or is it because no one ever stood to attack such reforms? I find this to be a concern because, as I mentioned, the Icelandic company, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, had experienced quite some problems before the outbreak of the epidemic. Now that he's saying that it's over here in Iceland, we must also want to look to the future. The government must want to indicate to the legislation which is expected in the management environment of these enterprises when they begin to work again. Of course, when they leave this interval, daily life resumes, and they need to work out, there are some programs that you can make where possible. There were many reasons why the companies had faced considerable hardship. Their spending had increased very significantly and rapidly. Of course, much of it is due to high pay rates. But it should be kept in mind that when a small company has to pay 2,000 dollars. To get a thousand dollars in the pay layer with the employee, however, the system has created a very negative impulse but also put a great deal of pressure on the companies that make up only limited amounts to the employee's salary. You would have wanted to see now, after this epidemic, when we must look to the future, to see how it should develop, because it really cannot develop in the way it had done. Another factor that causes very serious problems for many companies, which has been done long before the epidemic, is the deal with the system, the burdensome rules and all the controversies that are being introduced into law. In reality, the statement is that a small company in Iceland cannot be run without consulting a specialist or specialist just dealing with the system. Whether it is an employee or a costing a service, very few have the knowledge or the time needed to meet all the requirements of the system for low employment drivers. In fact, a system is being developed, built up, and developed, a system tailored to big companies, but little companies still have to meet the same requirements. This is especially true of the European rules that flow to us on an assembly. It targets international corporations and is often extremely complex. I trust to assert, Mr. President, that some of these are not understood by any senator. We need to rely on our experts or our system to tell us what is up and down in some of these European regulations. Sometimes whole books come to us through the Ministry of finance, which sometimes makes its own special changes, and often, as men have mentioned through the ages, it seems that they want to be more Catholic than the pope of the Order. The challenge is that for members of Congress, it is difficult to understand the rules and much less for those who have to work by them. On one occasion, law was considered to be a major factor that makes law understandable so that all the common people could understand what was expected, what was lawful, and what was not. Sadly, that has not been the case. Now law has become the complex, and becomes ever more complex, that sometimes it just takes the help of experts to live daily life, I don't talk about starting or running small companies. Because the European Union exploits its rules - and, as a person knows, it is an extraordinary interest in complicateing things and creating new commands and bans and making it difficult for humans in many areas - that international corporations are one thing being done for all. It has a very competitive position in my business. Of course, the big business has the potential to deal with the situation much better than the small companies, even with whole divisions to deal with the regulations and the system while the small companies are either driven by one person, by a single person, or by a small group of people, who can have the greatest struggle to deal with this and have to spend in the fight with the system much more time available to the business or capital that is more useful in the company to hire people and make valuables. It creates a highly competitive position, which seems to be that the big ones are always growing while the smaller companies are actually being protected. This is a very special concern now, Mr. President. Therefore, I miss the fact that there is no emphasis on these events in this epidemic, since the epidemic has still contributed to this trend. Just to illustrate, in many cases the entire small camp that has had to be shut down while the giants, a foreign corporation, have prospered. They had a big head start. Should they continue to have that advantage? The same can be said of financial companies. It will be very difficult to run a savings fund in Iceland after not so long on the same pace. While large banks are able to fill out all the forms and work with people who deal with the system, the small companies simply do not have the ability to do so. A competitive position for small companies is being established in countless areas by a burdensome rulework. Of course, this EEA deal is out of control. We can see in the Economic and Business Committee that there's a new burdensome rulework, carefully tailored to large companies, who can bite the little ones who don't have enough room to deal with the system. So this business, and I've heard of many stories, that, suddenly, there's a new rule that is designed to be met, but it's hard to find out exactly how to complete the book, how to fill out the forms. They try their best, and then the computer just says no and a fine, often sky hair, gets hung up on the company, the little company that was trying their best while the big company, the competition, just sails through it. Now that we're getting out of the epidemic, you would've wanted to see where we're headed. Will the SMEs continue to deal with the epidemic of system and regularisation, or will they be able to provide some assistance in this? Of course, because my time is running out, I have to be content to mention at the end that the government's creative ability to invent new fees is just another problem that affects the business of the country. In the spirit of modern or modern government, these charges are often given a positive name, e.g. They are called green fees, but they are still charges. Then they're up and up again. Of course, the same can be said of the old registration, which is up to each year's annual meeting to draw up the lines of the year's inflation development. A general council is riding along the line with high prices year after year, even in the condition we have been in. I wanted to use this opportunity to remind you, and I might ask if this epidemic year was a total loss of time, no work at what had to be done, or if it simply wasn't the will to fix these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u64	I recommend here for the bill to correct the alteration of unemployment insurance laws and the payment of sports carols on pay expenses and contractors during a crown virus epidemic. The bill is presented in areas where there is some uncertainty about national labour markets because of the spread of the crown virus. In view of this in the bill, changes in the earlier laws are proposed to respond to the effects the pandemic has had on the workforce. The changes, like previous government measures, are also aimed at reducing damage to the virus and ensuring that its negative effects on the economy and employment of the households will be minimal. The bill suggests that there is a right to income-related unemployment improvement over three months or for up to six months not to drop the 1st October the next person as expected on unemployment insurance. Instead, it is suggested that those jobseekers who meet conditions for six months' income - related unemployment benefits have the opportunity to make full use of that right to February 1, 2022. I think this is very important, so that those jobseekers who are temporarily allowed to participate in the workforce in the coming months related to the campaign will start working, before they have fully used their right to earn - related unemployment benefits for up to six months, may continue to have the possibility of using their rights for these benefits again, they will need to be paid for unemployment after temporary participation in the labour market. A respectable president. Evidently, the measures taken by the government to date as a result of a pandemic crown virus have been misapplied to individuals without employment at the start of the pandemic who were still being paid unemployment improvements on May 1, the past, since they have had difficulty reinventing the job market during the epidemic. So here it is suggested that a special 100,000 bill be paid to the person in question. concentrations in view of full commitment to the internal unemployment insurance system over a given period of time, the amount of money is expected to decline according to the lower insurance ratio in the system. This is to explain in the law that those who are committed to the unemployment insurance system and who have studied concomitantly in the labour market can complete the academic truth that is already begun at the end of their work or when they lose part of their job instead of having to stop studying in order to use their rights within the unemployment insurance system. It is not a matter of change to the current law, but it is important to explain that this applies regardless of when the individual decides to apply for unemployment insurance, thus using their rights within the unemployment insurance system. A respectable president. The bill assumes that there will be an extended period in which athletes can apply for pay to the labour agency based on a law on sports funds for pay expenses and contractors during a Korean epidemic. Is this suggested in spite of the possibility that sports activities can be carried out in a traditional way in the latter part of 2021, in line with the government's guidance program. In my opinion, it is very important to extend the ensuing period so that the resource still remains available for the year, resulting in the need to re-enact the protection measures. I certainly hope, though, that these measures will not be remedied by sports companies, for it is very important that the country's sports work is able to grow and flourish freely. That's what I think we can all agree with. A respectable president. Fortunately, during a better period of vaccination, there will be some restrictions taken from the preventive measures soon to be resolved. Even so, we still have uncertainty, and we do not know for sure whether we have finally come to the wind. So I strongly emphasize that the bill will be approved here at the General as soon as possible. After this discussion, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u65	A respectable president. It's time to celebrate that we have the highest power here. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs measuring for 100,000 bucks. for those who are on unemployment. That's the best part. But the irony in all of this is that today, May 5, is 60 years since Iceland's Environment Association was formed with six partners. Today, there are 41 members of the Member States. I'm gonna take this opportunity to congratulate them deeply on the day. But it is ironic and wet in the face of these Member States and the Micro-Communicate Alliance that not all of them are being given that 100,000 bucks. Strength. Although out of work is in a very bad situation, they have far better right than poor people, and they need only two months to get that 100,000 charge. concentrations based on the income of the micro-organised population monthly. As a result, I want to ask the highest. Social and child-friendly Minister: Why in the world are these things always being done, different groups? Is the purpose of opposing these groups, or is it envy? Why in the world do you not have a complete package for the worst and show that you are not partial, you are righteous, there is justice in these matters, and people get the same thing, not always as if they are confronted by these groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. The government has been bringing social action in all its companies, not just measures for companies. In particular, it has been observed how governments have maintained this, in order to form reports from the World Bank Fund, that it was noteworthy that we should always be taking care of people and businesses. Of course, that has been different. There have been a number of measures, and there have been different ways of handling the situation at one time because we are responding and trying to develop these packages according to the pandemic situation at another time. It has been approved here at the General Assembly for special pay both for micro-energy pensioners and for the elderly, for the changes in the unemployment insurance system and for other things. Now we have this proposal for about 100,000 bucks. one payment for people who have been out of work since the Covid epidemic. We're focusing on them now, including. Because we believe that this group needs to be put on better arms. So at each stage of the situation, we have been watching the situation. We're reacting at a time. Hv. A senator suggests that we have been leaving some groups behind. On the contrary, we have been putting our arms around very many groups, and the group we are suggesting now is those who have been unemployed for 14 months or more. I hope the council agrees with that operation because I think it's extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u67	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Affairs and child - care minister for the answers but they're rather a disgrace because it's a fact that one group has been left entirely behind, has not received anything. There are seniors, the worst-cased seniors. I haven't seen one pack for them, not one single payment, not one tax-free bill. You are systematically taking one group out instead of bringing one complete package and stopping this discrimination. Of course, what shows how ridiculous this system has become, as I have pointed out, is that we should have all these numbers: Despairers and senior citizens of 25 000, total unemployment rates of 307,000 U.S., minimum wage of 350,000. And then you bring a pack of 472,000. Plus a pension fund. If you want to destabilize and get people to do this, why didn't I get in this package, why didn't I get this or that? It's just getting lucky who gets the best and who gets the worst, and that's usually the worst forgotten. Of course, it's always good to help people, but as I've pointed out, in the context of that 472,000 k. And 11% of the pension fund, there's a group that falls outside, a group that really needs this. But for some reason, you don't want to take them in any pack, either. Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u68	A respectable president. During this season, a law for special social support was adopted to the groups of older citizens who are in poor standing, who were approved here, and we have started working for them. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has previously exchanged opinions in unsubstantiated inquiries on the importance of that law. I just have to disagree completely. A senator says that we have left large groups behind in Icelandic society in the Korean epidemic. It's simply wrong. Our systems have seized and held the worst - hit individuals. Unemployment insurance is designed to catch people who have lost their job. It is a community security network where we control individuals who suffer from unemployed. That's what we're talking about right now, closing it up a safety net, and meeting those who have been out of work for the longest time. Since then, we have had a variety of social activities for groups isolated in Icelandic society, social isolation, etc., whether they are disabled, disability pensioners, elderly, children, young people, homeless, vulnerable persons. We've had social action to keep that group in mind too. In any case, it should have been said more than I've said before and will say so in the past: It's very unfair to say that the government has not seized these groups because we've had a wide variety of social operations, a wide range of labour markets aimed at catching people and families, and in the vast majority of cases, they have succeeded. Is there any evidence that this has failed? Yeah, no doubt. But it's also only human, and unfortunately, our systems are like that, and then we need to improve them. That's what we're doing here with this 100,000 call, and we need to keep doing this and follow our people around. That's what the government has done, it intends to do, and it will continue to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u69	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the bill of the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs. What hit me the most in that bill and is good -- I'll be the first man to admit that the 100,000 bucks. strength is excellent, but unfortunately not enough. We realized that there are individuals in there who are getting 100,000 bucks. the strength to live on more than 300,000 bucks. per month. It tells itself that people don't live on it, people charge on that money if it's over their heads slow. The saddest thing about this is that those who don't get this strength are those who have fallen out of unemployment, those who are on social benefits, people who are put in a place where every dollar is reduced, and if they are married, they are committed to their mate; a system that is incredibly unfair and really lame to know that we have such a system. As a minister has pointed out, there have been things that have been done, some might be said, for certain groups. But this 100,000 bucks. and other grantings that have been granted by the government have not in any way paid off to the older citizens, the older citizens who are in some strange way trying to survive the poor farm where they are offering them the lowest possible pension, minus 10%. To get this minus 10% on the person's side, they created a system that cost more than millions of dollars than just paying them the minimal pensions that are unscrupulously low. No, 10% had to be taken off and only paid 90% to the worst in Icelandic society. This group won't get 100,000 bucks. This group hasn't got anything. And that is also true of the older citizens who are in striped pensions and who get nothing from pensions. There are most women who have had no pension rights because they have been working at home, as it is called, to think of children and other things. Their work is worthless, and the government doesn't think it's necessary to help them in one way or another in the Covid epidemic. We must also realize that this was the group that was isolated at home because of the epidemic, did not receive visits, could not even go into the store, had to be sent home if people had a head on it, or were unable to get involved, or even could not even be able to line up after food, as miserable as it is now in our community, that those who have the worst of it have to stand in it. It also shows how strange this system is. In this regard, we too need to look at the recent development of these amazing measures by the government. At the same time, there was an opportunity for unemployed unemployment and, as a result, went to work on the grounds that they would receive a minimum wage, the employer would be paying their unemployment. Shortly thereafter, this strange phenomenon, 472,000 k, which is a cool number and shows that for some reason, people have really managed to find out the right stratosphere that should apply for anyone in this situation, an extension number of 472,000. per month. Imagine what it would mean for all the people out there to count every cent, people who don't know what to do after half a month has passed, if they had received that amount, 472,000 K, i.e. More than 350,000. signed. Let us find this in context with those who receive at least a hundred thousand dollars. signed. There's the sky and sea between us, and that's where the water separates between trying to go into total starvation and being able to live with dignity. Why on earth aren't we offering this to everyone? Why is a certain group being organized? Why, whether they are students or they have fallen out of the system, are already on social benefits? They'll find a job and want 472,000. 11% of Pension Fund per month. Then they knock on their hand and say, "No, you don't fit in the box, you fell out one day sooner or later. One day can make a difference. For some reason, it's just the natural thing to keep things in that crazy way. I say again, here we stand and talk about it, and today is May 5th, which is the anniversary of the Quartal Community, the 60th anniversary of the Quantum Community. How sad to know that the battle has not gone beyond this, that after a 60 - year struggle, it is as bad as it is today! The joy is always greater and greater. There will always be a bigger gap between the rich and the poor, and then there will be a sparking gap within the groups trying to reach the lowest wage from the state's insurance agency or on unemployment benefits. It is quite remarkable that we cannot find any basis for having this fair, to have the package for all, to leave no one out. For example, it would now have been ideal to bring in a hundred thousand dollars. taxpayer and derelict for all the worst. That would have been the right move. But they brought pay last year for disability, and some payments have also been made at the end of a certain section, $25,000, reminds me. It's good, but it's just a Band-Aid on the wound to give someone this strength or one. What we have to do and the government hasn't done but promised for the last election, the leading group there, is to improve the situation of the poor. Well, they've had to wait four years and they're still waiting, unfortunately. It's getting worse. Remuneration by government employees has increased considerably more than in the general labour market, showing that the quality of dress and grooming will always be greater and greater. Government government administration has seen to it that there is a 40% loss on the social insurance pension in order to cut down pretty much and raise payouts from collapse. Unfortunately, this government does not have a place to correct that. It's good for some to get that 100,000 bucks. strong, but it sucks that not all should receive him, that certain groups should be left out. What may be the saddest part of all is that they are left out of what was needed most, i.e. those on social benefits. It sucks, too, that no 100,000 bucks. the worst-cased seniors are in the poor population, and with a written pension wage, that there is no sign of a dollar yet to be found for that group. There is a disgrace to this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u70	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a travel law, No. 54/2020. First of all, the bill presents a restoration of government travel with a period from June 1, 2021 to August 31, 2021. Second, a change in budgetary support for linked operators is proposed for a maximum of 260 million. K. The bill does not include a change in the time of the older tourists who were published during the previous year. They still drop by the next month's match, but they can be used up until that time, on May 31. By reimbursement before the coming summer, tourism companies throughout the country will be even closer in the months to come. In current travel laws, the government is given permission to publish travel to people with a Icelandic social security number born in 2002 or earlier for SMEs defined in 2 mg. 1st par. The law. The requirements of the law can be attributed to negative effects due to the spread of chorvirus in environmental tourism activities. The limitation of land and abroad to curb viral spread has, which is known to have a major impact on companies and traveling workers and on sectoral services. The government has taken many measures to reduce the damage caused by the epidemic and to create a powerful resistance afterward, but by the travel laws and now a proposal for restoration of tourism, the aim is to respond temporarily to the negative effects of the epidemic on people and businesses in Icelandic tourism. A respectable president. Costs of travel money under budgets for 2020, sr. Law No. 36/2020, a total of 1.5 billion. As I mentioned at the beginning of the talk, whatever the bill under discussion, the current law will drop down at the next month's conventions in 2020. It is estimated that about 650 million. K. will still be arranged for the first travel when the date will expire at the end of the month. In addition to that amount, another 750 million is put in place during a renewed travel campaign. Its scope, then, is a total estimate of 1.4 billion. From the law's taking effect in June 2020 to April 10th. Some 199,000 people applied for the 2,500,000 who are entitled to travel. More than a billion dollars, of which about 787 million will be used in a number of ways. 139,000 subjects. So there are still about 700 million. K. for a provision of the funds paid for the travel. The combined number of enterprises involved in this project is 812. Looking at regional exchanges of capital, there are some 293 billion. K. has been used for tourism companies in the capital area. That leaves about 119 million. K. Be new to companies in the South, 83 million. K. correspondent in the northern part of the island, 48 million. K. ... in Westernland, 35 million. K. ... inNortherns, 28 million. K. ... inEndland, 15 million. K. correspondent in Northern West, 15 million. K. ... ontheWestlands,and finally 151 million. K. magazines that work nationally. As I came in earlier, it's estimated that about 650 million. K. will still be arranged for a previous travel date when its timeout expires. For this reason, there may be several reasons not intended to be here, but with the renewal of travel it is clear that those who took advantage of previous travel will have the opportunity to do it again in the summer and thus contribute to the promotion of domestic travel services as well as those who did not take advantage of their travel will, of course, have the opportunity to use it again in the summer. This allows for further resistance in the summer of 2021. The bill does not call for changes in other laws and has been employed in good consultation with the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. The bill includes extension of a government support system that has already been approved by the EFTA monitoring department. The extension of the time and elevation of the maximum financial height for each company is also mandatory and subject to the Agency's approval, but the Agency was formally consulted during the implementation of the bill and announced in April. The Agency's approval is outlined in the matter of legitimate government support. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u71	A respectable president. We're talking about an extension or a change in travel law, that's 5,000 bucks. It's a trip that's back here. As far as I'm concerned with ministers, there are hundreds of millions who are not satisfied with the last resort. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not have considered to use them, perhaps sending out an announcement to those who do not have the new travel and the financial resources under which they would have been used to increase the payments to the social reformers, the desperate and the unemployed so that they could travel within the country as they do today. We are fully aware that 5,000 bucks. does not have a large amount, and as a result, the largest group of these individuals will probably use it within a particular radius of their home, not travel for this. Also, was it not a matter of simply offering money, giving a higher amount to those who have least and not giving it to high - paying employees who have no need for this gift? Of course, if we are to encourage travel, we need to encourage those who have been remembered. The others who make it best, I don't think there's anything to encourage them, they can travel if they want to. Did nothing like that come up with a discussion about this trip?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u72	Mr. President. Granted, there were some topics when we were discussing this idea, this strategy, and building, but it was up to the whole time that it would be a general resource for all over 18 years of age as an injection into the economy. We know that there are differences in ability and underlying incentives, in fact, by this travel process to take larger trips or to travel far into a country where there are other costs. But that is why we also know that there have been some who have been taking advantage of these provisions in the neighborhood or even for some purpose that may not be directly involved in travel. We also examined what it would mean to reach individuals under 18 years of age. It is technically complex, and it is also simply complicated because it involves individuals who are not legal. Often, this is where parents share a common view of things like this. But it is also important to consider that we are in these child - welfare provisions, which will be paid at a special rate of 30,000. children's improvement with each child at the pressures of public pay In some cases it is possible to look at it. But it was never the idea that this would be anything but a general plan. This would be an injection into the economy. Of course, it varies considerably according to individual circumstances, whether financial, health, social, or otherwise, how the travel is new. But whole resources have worked very well, and companies have also offered a variety of offers at a convention that has had a very positive influence, both for the people who use the gift and for the rest of their traveling work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers for. I just have to say exactly as it is, it's the opposite of saying to a married couple in disability or unemployment benefits with maybe two, three children who get 10,000 bucks. Travel - this can never be classified as much as transport. I think it would be more reserved for food, to be able to go to dinner. Maybe it counts as their journey, I don't know. I would have liked more extensive resources for the unfortunate and the higher. We were just talking about a hundred thousand dollars ago. the strength to the unemployed. It wouldn't have been a problem, putting up a higher amount, for example. it might have been enough for two, three nights in a hotel or a few days in a tent area, there would be some chance of making real use of this. As it's set up, this low amount, I don't see that it can be called a travel factor or a traveler because it will not be a trip to a single group. A large group will never be able to take advantage of this gift for travel. I could see somewhere that this wasn't even in a bus but half the way to Akureyri or one way to the other, so it's not a lot of travel. It may have been possible to set the example so that others would have enjoyed it and especially those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u74	Mr. President. Of course, these views are very often on tables, but this is an action that is not social resources. It's not a social procedure. This is an operation to encourage further recreation and injection into the economy. Of course, traveling is not merely intended for people to go on a long journey, and there are a number of activities and activities that can be done in the nearby community that are important to both the people who can use the traveling and the businesses in the area. We can see that this has been the way it has been used in the use of tourism. Of course, we have a number of other options that are just there to be especially supportive of families with children, in that case bound to a certain income, and for those who have been on unemployment for a long time and so on. So we're doing things that all play together. But this procedure is general, and it is rather simple, and we wanted to keep it that way. She did well last year, and I hope that the Icelanders will benefit from her now and use her to do whatever is right for each one, both in their interest and in the interests of their professional and professional life.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u75	Mr. President. In itself, it is quite well that this matter is repeated and extended. Surely, the experience of this edition last year is quite good, and it has benefited many families who gathered and profited from this so - called travel campaign. There is, however, one thing I remember making a note at last year and going to make the same remark to now because it's the same thing at the die, that word, the travel. I must ask again: What is the source of this travel? At one time, it was called a travel check, which is the best of it, a check on a journey, or something else that is set before you to use it. I think it's a superficial name to travel because this process is funded by tax. It is the people themselves who pay the taxes but then, apparently, receive a gift, probably from themselves. This reminds me only, Mr. President, when actual checks were to be sent west in America last year, in the middle of Covid, and the U.S. President insisted that his signature be on all the checks sent out so that it would look like a check or a present from him to the nation himself. And I think something about it is the government making it clear that they, the government, are giving something to the nation, so far away. What is paid for by tax is paid by the nation. If a person wants to call this a gift, he could best be called a national gift because the nation is giving it to themselves. It's giving those who run a business in tourism and restaurants and a second chance. It sounds as if the government is giving the nation something they're not doing. I would have suggested, Mr. President, in great kindness that, now that the case is being addressed, the members of the committee take this issue and take note of it, and then they will be properly extended and will probably last as well and hopefully do as well as they did last year. It's the best part in itself, but the packaging's so lame.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u76	Mr. President. I would recommend a bill to correct a change in the law on restaurants, restaurants and entertainment, the law on the extra pay of state funds and the license of registered vehicles. The bill is based on the proposal and review of OECD, which has made over a hundred motions for changing law and regulations in transport-related services here. The bill outlines four types of changes in current legislation: First, change in the age conditions of the Marketing Authorisation Holder for restaurants and lodgings, secondly abbreviation of the O.D. version, thirdly a change of fees for the license of restaurants allowing the sale of alcohol, and fourthly, the obligation to be open to the public. As I came in, the bill is based on the proposals of the OECD Economic and Development Organization. In 2019, the Icelandic government signed a contract with OECD to achieve an independent competitive assessment of Icelandic tourism and construction services. The employment and innovation department had oversight of the project that was carried out in close cooperation with the Contestance Commission, other agencies and institutions. The project revealed, among other things, that the unnecessary burden of employment can be reduced and the change of rules in order to be more supportive of active competition within Icelandic tourism while competition contributes to lower prices and greater quality, as well as better products and innovations in markets. Contestants have the opposite effect, and the result is negative for consumers. In the implementation of the project, there were 632 valid laws and regulations in the management of tourism and construction services in order to identify competitive inhibitory measures. Work revealed 676 possible competitiveness. Of these, OECD provides 438 reimbursements that the Agency believes may increase land production by 1%. Last January, a team of workers, appointed representatives of the employment and innovation department, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, and the Contestant Commission, were appointed to work on the first legal and regulations changes based on the proposed OECD proposals for travel-related services. It should be noted that the proposals for transport and management are considered, in the processing and further consultations with stakeholders, or already for the treatment of the Allied Environment and Transport Committee. These are also involved in the processing of tools involved in the environment and resource services of the Agency, as these suggestions are widely available in the management system, in many layers and in very different individuals. A respectable president. With this bill, you are taking steps to promote the support of the economy, to promote simple regulations, to increase production, and to increase the number of jobs. It should be noted that the bill is only one factor in continuing work in improving the management conditions of the Icelandic tourism service. At the same time as the bill, changes will be made in the regulations for restaurants, resting places and entertainment that take into account part of the OECD process and will be either entirely or partly in accordance with the proposals of the Agency. The normal changes hide from other sources. in the reduction of out - of - date and sensitive prescriptions and standards due to bedside activity. This includes discontinuation of regulations that have to do with public quality requirements as well as changes that are reversed. to shorten the duration of treatment for an opportunities application. Other suggestions published in the OECD report call for more attention, preparation, and further consultation between sectoral and innovation, other recruitments, interest stakeholders, rural partners, and government. The bill contains four types of changes, as I mentioned. First, it is suggested that the applicant's age conditions for a license or the candidate's guardian be evacuated. One of the requirements for granting the version of the marketing authorisation under the relevant legislation is that the applicant or the head of the student has reached 20 years on the day of application, but the current age of the drinking age under alcohol law is taken into account. In this context, the directors of a business director who has a warrant for alcohol abuse meets the age required to buy alcohol under alcohol law. However, the same view does not apply to another type of event, based on the arrangement for restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment. Therefore, in view of the above and professional legal requirements of the Constitution, it is suggested that the applicant's age limit or the head of his opponent be allowed for restaurants and accommodations that also do not involve the liquor squad. In such cases, the age of legal age has been suggested as being 18 years old. Second, it is suggested that a mandatory deadline to apply for an opportunistic permit be suspended and, instead, a deadline and a treatment course in the Regulation. Events requiring the release of opportunistic protocols may differ greatly in nature and extent. The conditions of the current legislation that you should apply for at least Regardless of the nature or extent of an event, three weeks' advance may be particularly burdensome for smaller operators. Events requiring the release of the opportunistic authorisation may contain the nature of the case with short notice. This will require reasonable, reasonable time to advertise and prepare events following the grant of an opportunistic permit. This suggests that a law-oriented application deadline will simply be canceled. Instead, it is suggested that a minister be allowed to read for a period of time in a Regulation which may take into account the nature and scope of the event in order to shorten the treatment period as possible. Thus, in the case of a simple event, the duration of the treatment should not be three weeks, but it can be stated in the Regulation that the duration of that treatment should be up to three weeks, if there are multiple permission and for many reasons to look for a particular event can be written out. The third adjustment of the bill's proposals turns toward a fee for the license of restaurants and shelters allowing for the sale of alcohol. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Refers to current legislation, there are unnecessary and illogical costs for smaller companies. In accordance with the proposal of OECD, it is suggested that the license of restaurants and lodgings allowed for sale and/or alcohol consumption be reduced in order to conform more closely to the actual cost of publishing these provisions. In accordance with current laws on the increase in the state's income, the license to sell alcohol is up to 6.5 times higher than the cost of a license without the alcohol squad. The changes in the bill will decrease significantly to approximately double instead of being more than six times. There is a wine - feeding situation that is designed to call for increased monitoring costs. However, it is clear that the cost of maintaining police surveillance cannot be met by the monologue laid down in the current law, which is financed by special financial funding to the police. The current currency, therefore, involves little secret barrier to markets at the level of the terms of the administrative cost resulting from the distribution of the license and the sum of the fee. The bill is therefore suggested to cause a substantial reduction in the distribution of the operators in order to promote competition and make it easier for new partners to start the food and sleep management business. However, in view of monitoring requirements, it is considered strictly legal that the cost of a business permit involving a license to sell alcohol will remain higher than the cost of a management fee without such a warrant. The fourth and final bill's motion for delinquency is the condition that a driving station should be open to the public. With the changes in business practices, it is considered appropriate to cancel the controversial requirement, including in order to improve the quality of electronic business and the variety of business practices. The requirements of a current law on a fixed employment station that is open to the public may be particularly burdensome to smaller parking shops. Cutting off the conditions is the first step in simplifying regulations relating to the license of motor vehicles. The current changes are designed to increase biodiversity and innovation and make it easier for new management partners to start working with less construction and cost. A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, this bill is just one part of continued work in improving the management conditions of the Icelandic travel agency. They've been working in good collaboration with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the Contestant, the county official in the capital area, the Association, and a travel agency. The bill generally means that the access barriers and burdensome spendings on employment, which are not thought to be a grammatical argument, are removed from the law. The aim of the change is to improve the conditions for the active competition and to promote the money - money industry. By means of the bill, however, conditions will improve for the competition and business of smaller companies along with the reduction of the cost in the form of public permits and demand. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u77	V.E.G. President. I was just going to come up here to celebrate this bill in the sense that there's a simple rule and to meet the business people, as the minister said, in the tourist business and the food business and natural people who want to start such activity. This sounds very good, and it also allows us to take further action against other occupations, where we can imagine that individuals want to start a business. It is often that when young people or just persons are interested in starting their own business, or individuals, whether they are more than one or two or three, there are often regularities and all around their applications and are close to high walls of withdrawals, losing anger. It takes too much to start, and people look for another job or even go to a unemployment record. This is good news to me. The bill, as it appears, is about restaurants and resorts and all around them. That's what we're waiting for again, and already the light on the other side of the tunnel is burning brighter because of the better condition of the Covid epidemic. You have hoped that this business will get started, and more people will be able to get to the ground, and those who are already on the surface will see a better future. The bill is, as indicated by the minister's case, on the way to a business station where the one sitting here is sitting and soon looking at it, I can't help but see how this can get paid but it's going to come out. But as it turns out, the first time I read it, I'm celebrating the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u78	V.E.G. President. We're going to proceed with the affairs of immigrants. It's best to go back to where it's been gone. When we discuss these matters, it is important that we speak them open, and we must be able to communicate. Flirting those who want to go to the ground with care is no good for the discussion. This has repeatedly pointed out that our neighboring nations, Sweden and Danir, have changed their previous approach. The communities of these nations did not reach and still do not unite all who live in these lands. It is not good to lose a community in disintegration. That is exactly what we have been pointing to, so we need to be careful. We are here to adopt a legal policy that has been recognized by other nations as a failure. In Sweden, for example, there has been a basis for an immigrants'language to become the big campaign next year. Some Swedes feel that they had to yield to the various values of society's life - style and equality, and according to reports from Sweden, women may be at risk of panic. Another thing that interests me, and I've also been on the news, is that the PISA survey in Sweden in 2018 had not been fully carried out. Sweden was very successful in the survey, and the board commended themselves and pretended to be all right. Now, however, a Kingdom Accounting survey in that country has shown that a twentieth of a student was released, and what is worse is that most were children of immigrants. It would have given quite another picture of the school if they had been with them. This reflects a particular problem, and it tells us that the work was not yet done. Hence, Sweden seems to have come to the place where they are now. Consider what is to blame. Could it be that immigrants do not want to participate in the community or that society has failed to successfully adapt to immigrants? At least we can thank them for their seeming change of course. They may then take a careful step toward the earth and do things the best they can. It has been discussed that helping is the best way to assist as close as possible to people's homes or, in any case, to make sure that people return to their homes. Especially, though, is it important for those who are unable to make their home that they have an opportunity to adapt to the culture of the new land in which they decide to settle. It is one thing to set a course, but it must also be the basis for a course. We have not yet received so - called stage photos, how things can look, how much cost will be involved. The mission is to experiment for one year, what will be of people after one year? Some questions arise. Have you considered how people will choose their home? Could there be others who prefer one community more than another? Is the school system sufficiently prepared? We know that more than 50% of the community's donations go to school. Is the Health Organization Prepared? Is supporting service okay? Is Social Services Loyal? The Icelandic community has mentioned that all of this is not clear enough. So I have to suggest that the case goes back to what? At the end of the discussion here, the welfare committee, i.e. Between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u79	President. We'll discuss this matter a little open, and we'll make sure we don't scale anyone. I wondered, " Is the uniform assembly of refugees and intelligence making it a cause for us to lose everything in the confusion and confusion, such as the wind? ' A senator expressed it. Did the system fall in neighboring nations when resorting to crowded places to reconcile the reception of refugees or information was made available? Isn't that kind of harmony really an opportunity to make a living and save money to a legal group? I don't quite understand the discussion here in the past 24 hours or more, what's wrong with the arrangement to coordinate the reception so it's not done in different ways, there's trouble at some point, missing information, and therefore maybe a violation of someone's rights because it's not the same thing in different places. Is this not exactly positive, giving options for practical management? Why talk about this matter for so long if it's not more complicated than it really is, a chance to make a living? I don't know how this turns toward something that went wrong in our neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u80	V.E.G. President. It's not bad to mix things up. They're talking about putting down two employees. Two employees do not do much on this huge project. I studied yesterday in my talks about immigrants, people who are already here, doing work, attending school, and being part of the community. They complain that they are not part of the community. And to think that only two employees can match the reception of immigrants - that is in no way enough. The project is for one year. I wondered what will happen to the people who will have taken root in a year. Does it just blow up? The rural communities have already hired one employee, at least a few, for this purpose. Is that enough? I also quoted the comments of a Union member of the United States, who says that it is cut off already from the financial resources involved in the agreements that are in force between Social Affairs and the welcome of a local community. The relationship also says that there is a possibility that expenses will increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u81	President. I've been trying to listen to these talks for the past 24 hours and more. I haven't quite figured out what the Central Party has been asking for. In view of this, they seem a little rough. A senator must be asking for more; more coordination and more staff to handle this coordination and such. Yes, it is good and good. If that is what it takes to be successful, then it needs to be done naturally. Then you can be very concerned about what happens after a year. No doubt, then, we need to make an informed decision regarding the good results and the future. It is only something that will show up in the financial and government policies, expected, if that is a good thing. Isn't that the standard we want to work for? We improve what we have done well, as the United States capital of Iceland has given us a wonderful experience. This is a further step. Shall we take a bigger step in it and add more agents to this sync? That's what we're talking about. Is that what they're asking for and they've been talking about here for 24 hours or more? I didn't get it that way from the previous talks, at least there were many questions and maybe not quite so accurately expressed. In case of a moment. A senator could explain this better if it were well received. Is it a request for more and more integrated approach to refugees, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u82	V.E.G. President. I see why. A senator well, but I'm not quite sure that he has achieved the point of my talks based on how he asks. But if we are going to receive everyone that sounds to me, it is. A senator must be suggesting, it would be best to do so, so we need to be able to deal with it if there is a policy. The point is, there's just no policy. First, work is set up on a one-year trial project, putting two employees who are involved in that role, and it is given that it will not work. At the same time, we have no idea where the future will lead us. We have no idea if the health system can live up to this, whether the communities can live up to it. What we have in our hands is a review I took a little earlier, from the European Union, where there is an unpredictable cost and an increase in expenses. That's why I'm calling it back to a committee because I'd like to know what's inaccessible, as the cost will increase, because it's also about a dollar and a buck, unfortunately. That's why, if we're going this way, we're gonna have to know where we're headed. That doesn't mean putting down a project and not putting it down because it's called an experiment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u83	Mr. President. We are still discussing a bill to legalize the law on the affairs of immigrants. It was talking about policy, what direction it should be and what policy it would have been. Today, political groups, as well as all of Iceland, have become a major part of the Western world. In Iceland it has been this way that there has just been no policy. There's been no targeted policy in the pack. They've played the best game to hope, hope that we can't get a shovel of contaminants here, which then changed in a short time of 2014, 2015, when we got a sample like this from the sledge of Europe. What was the response? Of course, reactions were shocking. It was to be tried by means of some means, for, of course, all of this was filled, although the masses were not vastly different from what other countries have had to contend with in these areas. But this is the result of this lack of direction. Of course, our small system explodes under low pressure. We have to get ready for business because there's nothing for us to show up here in some small style, as has been, some hundred or a thousand, over years or less, but we might get a lot more. Then we need to be prepared and know what to do. Other nations have been trying to send a message to the world that there is an application to be done both faster and more efficient than it has been in this country. We need to pick up the policy and send the message into the world that this is a rapid and efficient place, and we will receive the refugees we should, in view of international agreements such as with the United Nations on capitalists, and we will certainly need help from those who come here and who are in need of help. The fact is, there are a lot of applications for international protection that are unfounded. It has been very prominent in recent years that people have been moved from so - called safe countries, but we have been in the most occasional trouble of passing applications and strange events in this system when they have not known how to deal with them, and the individual issues have been found in the news and have caused trouble in society, for of course nobody really wants to be the bad one. But we have to start developing a policy in this, and I call it we're molding a course for this class. It is not acceptable, Mr. President, that we are providing billions of dollars each year in caring for the unfounded applications for international protection. Of course, that is not acceptable. And not at all, as this bill assumes, to send the message in the world that we have the open system that we could get thousands or tens of thousands of inmates who feel like it's time to come here because they're getting a better service, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u84	Mr. President. I have come to this public address to return my shame. This morning's work was carried out by the council. paritaprevir The left green, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and she set out for a discussion that she did not participate in, which she did not sit under and accused us of sowing seeds of fear. Nothing is far off, Mr. President, because all those who have listened to all this discussion, which has now been going on for about Eight hours, the shortest 24 hours I remember, know that it has only been discussed with us the facts, the anxieties we have, and it has not been attempted to complicate this or to complicate the affairs of the inmates or those who are looking for international protection into a world of fear or anything else. We've simply said, Iceland has a completely different policy than the neighboring countries, who have had 35 years of experience in doing something wrong but are now struggling to wind from it, and who intend to do things in a better way, i.e. As a result, they plan to promote a reception of refugees and prevent the fragmentation that has existed in these societies for 35 years and therefore plan to try to make sure that the fine people who find their way north can flourish in their new society and become useful members of society. But to come here, Mr. President, after not afraid to participate in the discussion, after not listening to her and putting her out in this way, it is unusual. That is why it cannot be replaced. To get ready for the Senate's work, where they know they don't get objections, Mr. President, is very sad. To this point, this discussion has been beneficial. It has been based on facts. It's based on what we know about the neighboring countries, and it's based on what we know about possible developments here. It's based on the fact that we don't know how much this bill is going to cost. Since the cost analysis has not been completed, it is very happy that the bill should now return to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. so that real costs can be brought to light by making the adjustment proposed on the bill. That in itself was the only thing that woke up for us Middle Class, i.e. not agree to a case that we don't know what to cost. Fortunately, and I'm grateful for that, Mr. President, the more part of the council has agreed that this journey will be completed, i.e. that the case will be reviewed and the cost will be carefully observed. Then we can evaluate how wise or not this matter is, how good it is, or not, when we have all the facts on the table. It is what we have always endeavored to make careful decisions after a more detailed discussion of complex issues requiring resolution. Mr. President. This is what I would like to say, and I expect my speeches here at 2nd. there will be no more people unless there are some special opportunities to do so. But what happened here this morning could not be kept silent.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u85	Mr. President. What I wanted to come in before the case goes back to a committee, which I think is very important and good to be done, is the financial resources involved in this bill. It is very important that we carefully review our expenses. As it seems now, only the Multihuman Park is seen as such, i.e. The number of people working there at about two places, reminds me, costing 22.7 billion. K. However, this bill has been sent out a message that the service will be the same for the eaters and the restitutants, and that is a fundamental change. It is the right thing to say. This will mean that a service rendered to those taking refuge will be even better than it is today. Of course it is, and those who are on the move in this regard are soon told that this is a better service. This will mean an increased number of applications. This, in turn, will mean extra expenses. This needs to go over. The number of applications that you will be applying will need to be influenced by some forms of application. They need to be discussed in the committee and set up stage photos. Then I want to call attention to what I only came in on yesterday, a review from the European Union. It is necessary to discuss it also within the committee because, as the review puts it, the work related to this uniform receptional network of refugees being proposed by this bill is a great dismay compared to the expectations that were already under way at the induction. It's only black in white from the European Union, and, of course, it's supposed to be doing these things together with the rurals. Farmers are deeply concerned that this is a financial failure. A careful review is needed. They further state in their review that money was addressed to a nail in the Social Affairs Convention with Reception Groups. It is proper to remember that this is primarily a matter of restitution. If they don't get the money they want, I don't really see how they can get it. This has to go over carefully. They also add that it does not seem to be in the intention of improving the additional expenditures under increasing pressure on the school system and within the child protection. This does not appear to be expected by the health system to meet a compatible welcome system. These are very serious comments made by the relationship. So it says: ◯ At present, Iceland is accepting most refugees relatively in comparison with the North countries. - This is what we've been tracking in our case, Central Parliament. ▪ Society and its infrastructure need to be equipped to provide the support and service required by the diverse group of refugees. This service is being extended, but we see that the funds are not available. It's not possible, and it's a responsibility to bring a bill that is not financed except to a substantial degree, i.e. which is of concern to the two status values of the Multiculture Man Who is responsible for providing information. They do not perform the services performed by their communities. And the rurals are complaining here that there is no money in this bill, as the review says, it's a huge amount of money. Mr. President. I expect a welfare committee to oversee this aspect of the matter carefully, and to provide some visual pictures of what might be expected for refugees to increase much, this bill being a law, meaning that it is being given a much better service than we do today. We're doing a good service today, we're doing it. So it's about that, in my opinion, the coming of a budget board, that it is absolutely clear how much it will cost on the whole. [[The president calls.]] I think the cost will be great, and there's something we don't have. We've become so in debt, State Fund, that it doesn't work for me to add to some billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u86	President. I think it's a huge deal that when the epidemic is over, the number of applications will be increasing. In that environment, I think that a consistent convention of refugees will be very helpful if we are going to be able to apply these applications effectively and effectively. It is a very simple question: Is that not a very good objective of this bill? That's what I'm talking about. A candidate does not agree, especially if there is an increasing number of applications, that it would be good to have a consistent reception to ensure that the information is there, in order to deliver all applications clearly and clearly, without any problems being mixed up, which say that the information in the system is in one place and that there is no other person with access to them, etc.? Isn't that something we'd like to have?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I told it in one of my talks about this case that I didn't make comments about changing the role of the National Society. Doing good things in itself is good. This facility should be a contact between refugees, rural partners and the labour oce. To improve perspective over the group and, in the same way, a decision-making and service should be made to be more efficient. This institution has a role as a counselor. I'm not making any comments about this. I think a multicultural facility is doing good things. However, it has been placed primarily in this uniform, i.e. that's the point. I don't think so. I believe that the very point of the matter is the very fundamental change. They're putting this in the sense that it's about information, but the basic change is that it's being put under the same hat that comes to the country, whether they come on their own roads or as eaters or whatever. It takes more service. I'm worried that there's going to be a lot more here because there's only once so people know exactly where the best service is. When the ministry is being slowed down and the rules are tightened in our neighboring countries, such as Sweden and Norway and Denmark, which we have traced to our speeches, people start to watch someone else. It's Iceland's natural become the centre of the map, at least In the Northern countries, and as it has been established by the Ministry of Justice, Iceland provides the best service in Europe for the service of the trustees. So I think it's perfectly clear that this will include an increased number of applications, which means additional expenses. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator who is with me on a financial committee and who has many good things to offer must see that there is very little money to add to something that can grow immensely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It takes at least Based on the consequences of this, it is the responsibility of the committee to review it carefully and then to take up the discussion at the time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u88	President. Yeah, I hear what you're doing. A senator is saying. He is commending the United States Hall of Iceland for good work and good work, and he wants to reduce his ministry. Which is it? Is this a fine service that is good for us to perform, or should we shovel out our service and not carry out our duties under international contracts? I can't quite figure out what the goal is after all. If we're going to talk about funding this, we're talking about a financial programme for the next year, because the funding under this bill is already in place, on the experiment that was in the prior budget and budget, and that's enough for this year. The next financial program is in progress, and we'll have to fight about a lot of things because it lacks all the cost schedules from A to Z. I'm looking forward to the discussion, if it takes more than a whole Senate to complain about the lack of cost analysis on such a bill that's supposed to be a really good service - but it's still supposed to be cut down. See what? A senator contradicting this, or am I mistaken about what he was saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We are well acquainted with the way the work has been done in this case. Last year, the budget for this category was about 4 billion. and then it just took place in December, such as in winter. A senator knows well, that there was a request of 400 million. K. There was an extra reserve in this suit, and it was taken care of as if nothing had happened. There was no criticism of this. I moved here a proposal that this payment could not be made because there was a reduction in the number of non-relieving applications in the last year due to the virus epidemic. That proposal was made. The media was the only group that supported that proposal. I would have chosen to. A senator who now puts things right into a budget board and speaks for a position of authority in the financial affairs of the State would have come with me in that discussion, and especially within the committee. What does justify a person's being able to come here and get 400 million? K. An additional budget for a case costing 4 billion when there was a reduction in candidates? We can only see where we are in these materials. There's no policy. I'm quite convinced of that, because of it. A senator says there's no way around here how to finance this, it's just for a press base, that it's just gonna be called for an extra budget. If it comes here another 2,000 people because we've improved our ministry, it'll just be called in for extra funds, and they'll be accepted here as nothing. That's what it's been. All critical thoughts and discussions are needed in this group of subjects when it comes to spending money. Besides, we know that, yeah. Senator, this system is being abused. The rules must be reinforced so that we can avoid abuse and help those who really need to keep, women, and children in war - torn areas, but not spend the money on some legal cost, rent, security, and all kinds of things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just that kind of case, that's the way the money goes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u90	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the discussion that has been on this subject. It is interesting to see how few members of the government or followers of the case speak up. I am delighted, though, that it is now clear that the matter will be consulted by a committee, as one member of the committee has requested. I hope there's a chance to get more involved with the people we've been discussing here, the middle-class members, and worry about. We have brought out the huge cost that is actually hidden in this whole matter. I now hide within the foals and parentheses, but it is quite clear that when a service is increased by hundreds or thousands, it depends, of course, on how the future wind is coming, the cost goes up a lot. The group receiving a certain service that naturally costs a lot of money, the tax dollars of the Icelandic citizen, the taxpayer, is growing. That's a concern, Mr. President. In our opinion, this will serve as an incentive for those who work on it - and again within the petals - the criminals who are smuggling and bringing people to Iceland or other countries. I'm also concerned about this, and it's beating me that it seems that there's no one willing to go to the Icelandic government and to many of the senators to face the experience and reality that our neighbors and others have had with them for the past few years. When this development was warned, there were speeches similar to those given by opposers that we have heard of here. One speech has been held in that state. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the media is most involved. It was warned that the situation would be as it is today in such countries as Denmark and Sweden, and in more countries, if the current policy would continue. Now these good countries, our neighbors and uncles, have come to a place where they can't handle anything, and they are also resorting to extreme measures, let me say, as the Danes have been proclaiming recently. It's a little special, Mr President, that the Icelandic states don't want to learn from this, don't want to admit how things have developed in these countries, that they'll stick their heads in the sand and pretend they don't see this evolution and really want to offer it here. Of course, we should take advantage of this experience to establish clear and specific rules that prevent us from taking the same course with our society. This does not mean that individuals or people from a foreign background could not come here at all. We're supposed to invite people here who are really in great need and who need help. Of course, we are also expected to welcome those who want to come and honor and improve our community, to build up here with us. That's how we have to admit that we also need it, Icelanders, that there are people here who want to live and work here and become Icelandic citizens, we're not that many of them. But when it comes to the matter of shelterers, when it comes to refugees, how we respond to them, we should, of course, deal well with those who really need help. We are to focus on helping those closest to them. That's what's recommended. As I described here after my visit and experience from visiting a refugee camp, all whom I talked to wanted to be close to their own homes and return home. This may be what we have seen recently that Danir is preaching, or politicians there, sending people back home. At least, Mr. President, at the end of the story, let me say so that I rejoice that the case will be reassigned to the Committee. I'm delighted, and I really hope that these questions will be brought to light by the modern - day media and me. I think it is also important that we continue our discussion. She is to continue, both at the council and in the community. We're supposed to have the guts to discuss these matters. They can be sensitive to many things, but we should not be afraid to talk about it and to look at the experiences and facts that speak in other countries. That is why we should take into consideration our approach in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u91	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a matter called a government case. Interestingly, then, government supporters have held very back from speaking to this matter. Only one member of the Independence Party has held a talk during this discussion and, in fact, since the very beginning of the case. One senator, homb. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, and he didn't give this matter a high grade. He said the system was ruined, and he feared that politicians could not handle these matters properly. This case we're discussing here may be evidence of it. Yet, there is one group capable of handling these matters, and this is the class that has discussed the matter most. No senator of the left movement has arranged for a speech to speak for this matter. True, there is one. A gentleman in the left green got involved with the mailing of Facebook, where he was a re-elector for the second time before this election, had the opportunity to draw attention to himself by calling the discussion on the subject of this filament, a discussion that would be appropriate. However, a senator did not take part in his own activities. True, two senators have participated in this discussion, but they could not be fewer, for the same was the minister who presented the case and the spokesman for the case after being treated on a committee. Support to this matter has come primarily from Pirata's ranks. It's a pyramid of nature. It's the strangest thing to do. However, members of the board of directors have not trusted in the matter. Maybe it's not that strange because it's a perimeter in Norwegian politics, really on the outside, going against what other Norwegian nations are doing. In Denmark there is an agreement to cross the opposite direction, from the right to the left, beyond the sociyacian quadrupts, and from the peers who are now leading the discussion on the importance of deporting the course that is being proclaimed in this issue of Iceland's Government. In Sweden there has been a historical group of groups from center to right to disappearance from the Saviar path in these same cases. In Norway, people are aware of this too, and they do not lack a discussion in Finland. In fact, Sweden's prime minister has admitted that it no longer works in the way that has been done. But here, the government of Iceland puts on a perimeter, which is in order to further up the problem that the government has not been able to solve, which the government has clearly given up. A matter that deals with one of the biggest subjects of our day, the refugee problem, and the best question about meeting refugees, helping those who need their help most. Not only does this matter work but it betrays the people whom we should help, as Danish officers explained in their course that I quoted from my final talk. Mr. President. I haven't finished my speech even though I'm running out of time, so I'm asking them to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u92	Mr. President. It's a question of how things are spoken, but I'm going to allow myself to say it here clearly: We follow a course in this language. This trend is characterised by an open border, and here is an open bank on a trust fund. This bill is about following this course with even greater zeal. This policy is described by European leaders, especially by Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, the prime minister of Dana, as a mistake. They've changed their course. We now follow the course they described as failures, and they now seek to improve the damage done to their own society. This is most pronounced in Denmark and can be seen in many areas. This discussion is a turning point because it has not been permitted to discuss these matters. There has been a sort of silence, but now this situation has been breached. There will be no more silence and there will be no more silence. These issues must be discussed loud and aloud, and in the light of facts. Of course, there are many aspects of this matter, one is financial, another turns toward the welfare system, and so on. Of course, no one assumes anything about these materials on the left side of the green, but the other two members of the government are acting very hard on the policy I described for an open border and an open stack of state funds. This bill is an example of this. In a paper with the bill submitted by the highest power. Department of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, gives rise to a number of sentences found in the section on impact assessment. With the permission of the President, it reads: 'By a consistent welcome system, we're working to provide refugees with equal services, regardless of how they get to the country... We're sending out a very clear message here. The border's open, and here's a bargain. This is going contrary to what Dan's doing. It has a bill on authority to take the trustees to a reception station outside Europe, which includes messages to those who are applying for economic shelters or to look for a better standard of living that they can save themselves. But there is also to say, e.g. People who have been involved in business with men of different classes of sheep, who may have given themselves a large fortune or even all their rent for getting on some overcrowded RHIB, some sort of slaughter, over the Mediterranean Sea, and who have taken on great dangers - the announcement to these people is: You can save yourselves all of this. This note that you think you're buying in Denmark is just a ticket to an African takeout station. It has now been reported that Danir made an agreement in this regard with Rwanda, and it is possible to read in the Danish media on the subject of that contract, and I don't have time to discuss it here. But I must also say the highest. The minister of justice, who in a two - minute talk, referred to this as two: an open border, an open bank on a government fund. [[The president calls.]] That's what she did on March 25. When she answered, she answered the highest. A president from behind me on financial matters involving foreigners. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u93	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss a little organized crime in this matter. As a result of having open borders, there are, of course, a number of different sheep that come here. We have seen that much and much longer than that in recent winters, but the common people were aware of this when the police had to deal with their widespread activity. That's why I got the attention of an interview at the highest level. The Minister of Justice in Bits of the Wave, shortly before the issue, was an organized criminal group, a problem repeatedly referred to by the State Marshal's Intelligence Department for many years, but now the heat seems to be a response. The minister associated this with the Schengen partnership we've been in for at least Twenty - five years ago, saying that there were more benefits than the faults, yet there would have been no greater benefit in working together ten years ago than there were now. Why would that be? Yes, this interview spoke for the highest. Minister of Justice, also to that member of the Bitsaver, about the ability of the police to dismiss the offenders from the country. It seems that it is not easy to uproot such gangs when we are in the sort of partnership Schyngen is because there is absolutely no border between these countries. The only border we really have is the outer borders of the countries in this partnership. Although we are an island north of the Atlantic Ocean, we decided to be involved in this cooperation and to stay in it by accepting all its defects. The main reason we were in the Schengen community service at the time was for us to get that information and could cooperate with the local authorities. Of course, Mr. President, it was a major concern because the Irish and the British both decided to outdo this cooperation, and I've never heard anything except that they were in good cooperation with the police authorities in other European countries. This is some kind of ready reason to be there inside the door. But if there are more faults and even more so that this cooperation needs to be revised, the highest. Minister of Justice to wind up in it, for she now gave up the ball with it in this interview. I requested a report from the Minister of Justice a few days ago in the highest court. The Minister of Justice would explain how the Ministry and the government have responded to the rise of organized criminal organizations in this country over the past few years. It's not a new story. The House of Analysis has been pointing this out for years. I hope that the report will arrive at the end of the council, and we can see how the Ministry's reaction has been in these matters and what response it will take. It's time. Of course, within the police it's been heard, and it was recently shown on Kompás Show that it's very bad, since it was the result of the analysis department in the last report that it was the greatest crisis in the community if there are natural disasters, much or less, Mr. President. And what do we do? We're fast asleep. We're fast asleep. Officers are dropping, they're not increasing. We've got a mission, two agents, three men in here, and no real response. I look forward to seeing this report, and I sincerely hope to the highest. A minister will take care of this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u94	Mr. President. As soon as I was gone, I was pointing to a dance band of peers and told of the policy now being betrayed by the Icelandic government that most needs help in terms of Danish men. I can agree with that. I'm just going to quote the introduction of their policy, which says: "We are neglecting our obligation to other people if we let the present system continue. That's the system the Icelandic government is now moving into. And why is that? This is most important because the abuse of the system, which is being offered to be greatly increased in Iceland, mainly affects those who need help most. It was mentioned here that the governor warned a large report that Iceland's trust - seeking system was abused by foreign criminal gangs. We're in a hurry. But the budget set up in the bill will make it much easier for them to use the Icelandic system to send people to Iceland, to get people to do business, if it's the right word, this deadly gang and allow them to direct people to this country. That's the point of a Danish policy. They say: We need to compromise a policy that enables criminal gangs to use Denmark as a commercial product. The Danish officers also say that the plan is also a way out of the current situation in which each of Europe, so to speak, is a way to maintain control of neighboring countries - except here in Iceland, where they have not known of this bill - and where Europe's countries, so to speak, compete to be at least the attractive destination, except in Iceland, which seems to compete to become the most attractive destination, since the service was here for this bill with the best available and the more secure, as mentioned, would be six times more in Iceland than in Denmark and Norway. This is illustrated by a lack of evidence for the introduction that those who have come here to defend the matter have not spoken of its real effect. They have not even talked about real goals, and the goal is clear; to coordinate the services people receive, no matter how they come to the country, whether offered here by the Icelandic government as a greeting, have gone through a legitimate, secure system, or come here illegal, sometimes on the streets of dangerous crime. This is in order to make it tantamount to the kind of person coming. That goal is 180 degrees from the government's objective in Denmark, where the prime minister now says: The goal is that no one attends Denmark as a takeaway. We will accept refugees, but we want to control who is invited to the country, and we want to encourage people to take advantage of the safe way, the legitimate way, and then they have the opportunity to arrive in Denmark. It's going the opposite way. Mr. President. I'm aware that the highest. The president wants to start a new program, even though there are many things to be said about it. But I have to mention a few more things before I finish my case in this discussion and ask them to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u95	Mr. President. This issue is not about any of it. A senator and his party have been talking about here for many, many hours. They're killing the case. This is bullshit. This matter of Congress, if it becomes legal and it is likely to become a law, will cost 23 million. K. in action. This debate has cost the government funds more, just because of how long it's taken, because this filament has been going on. I was only going to counter this issue to congratulate the head of the Middle Party for blessing their own record of low credit with this filament. I don't want an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u96	Mr. President. I see every reason to thank you. In answer to this, a senator gave us at the end of the discussion a sample of the case of those who have come up to support this case, which, in fact, has been of the Porta category in general. Senator. It is simply claimed that this will cost only 23 million; the cost is only the recruitment of two employees; it is totally overlooked the tremendous impact this change of policy will have. On the other hand, the Icelandic community points out that this is a treasure - free organization. And so it is obvious, Mr. President, that in the case of a fundamental change in the policy of other northern countries, although Iceland is already infested with six-fold more takeoffs than Norway and Denmark after previous government messages to the world, it will affect the number of people who are applying for it, when it is legalized that those who come here, even illegally, even criminally, will have the right to the same services as those who go through the legal system and are invited to the country. I'll have to make a remark to foul language, let's call it a time of moderation, Mr. President, why. A senator at the end, but unfortunately they also illustrate the efforts of supporters of the case to prevent a critical discussion of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u97	Mr. President. There is much to say on this matter. I had just begun to trace the development of the North countries, the experience that the North American nations have, and what we could learn from the change in policy. And I had hardly begun to account for the nature of these matters, which I would naturally think of when it comes to attacking such a major policy change in a case that has been one of the largest, probably the largest, political issues in the northern countries of the past few years. But they want to handle it here without a discussion, without any involvement of the members of the board as much as possible. The bottom line is that these are the changes that are taking place contrary to what we see in other countries, and this will have a very significant impact in Iceland. This will have a very significant effect on the future. When it comes to such a big and important matter, Mr. President, it's surprising that the matter should not have been prepared any better, it's presented a second time, and not investigated the effect. They didn't seem to have made the slightest attempt to explore the effects of this major case, as I say, probably the largest political issue in the countries of the past few years. But now I understand that there is a chance of trying to improve it in committee work, and with confidence that this will be the case, I assume that it is safe to say, Mr President, to wait with some of the arguments I was going to share in this discussion until this work has been done. I trust that this work will be done faithfully with the goal of finding out what is really true, what the real effect is, rather than creating some smoke bombs or moist reasons for driving the case in the way it has been done. I'm counting on that, Mr. President. I know it's the highest. The president listens to my words, and he realizes that we must want to view the council as someone who can trust such a big deal properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u98	A respectable president. At the end of the last discussion, I noticed. 3.m. That's the north side. " Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, took two talks in a row. Now it is without reason that we may enjoy a few more minutes of intelligent action. A senator, but this is a problem with what I've known about a council so far, and I've been here since 2013, minus one year, between 2016 and 2017. The rule has been as long as I've been here for at least One speaker between the two, but that wasn't so this time. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson spoke up. That's when it went. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy in response to him. Hv. paritaprevir So, in reply, Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, immediately returned to his speech, using his own speech. I'd like to ask a respectable president if this is in harmony with the rules and customs here when it comes to meeting at the council because if this is allowed, I have to say that there's something important about how we can expect a future discussion here. I think it's a little important to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u99	A respectable president. I was just watching this on TV and I saw it. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson stepped aside, and I thought he was talking to a president. I didn't realize it until I looked at the clock that he had arrived in another speech. I don't think that's what we've been getting used to here, and the jobs have been based on so far, someone's always had to go in between. I'm waiting for the highest. To give us clear guidance on whether this is something we are about to record, that we can use just a talk from a speaker, and a talker. I think there must be some error in the president's case this time, I really hope it is, because otherwise one and the same man could just stand here and choose between if there's no one else on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u100	To answer that this matter will be considered in the Senate Presidency Committee, it will consider whether here has been a mistake or not. In this case, however, it was the will of the president here to shorten the discussion in accordance with the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u101	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion of a change in the proposal for a bill to legalize the loss of the index value of the building. The committee has discussed the matter and has made visitors, as mentioned in the committee's opinion. The bill suggests the removal of the index of building costs, but the objective of the bill is to enable Iceland's Habitat to update the method of measurement of the index in accordance with the international development of methodology. The Commission's opinion is based only on what is presented in the report, but it says that changes in the value taxation of an apocalyptic in the index measures that caused users a problem. Then they say: The Vísitalan responds to (irrespectively) changes in the value tax and the reimbursement rate for private tax based on its own. A better chance of not measuring worth of extra taxes is that most of the building arrangements have been moved from individual resources to construction companies. The enterprise dwells in an internal and tax system and is therefore not entitled to reimburse a merit tax. The committee received a memo from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs showing that there was a certain misunderstanding in the report on the construction of a company's post on the value tax and its impact on the cost of building an apartment building. The Ministry's memo discusses the limited right of a builder in order to obtain a value tax decomposition as tax and regulations on the right to reimburse money tax due to human work at the construction site of an apartment house. According to the Ministry, in addition to the rules of the Treaty, credits for buildings, reforms, or maintenance of houses or other people do not be removed as tax or reimbursed separately, and with the exception of a total of 20% of their expenses. Then they say: Thus, the use of tax rate or reimbursement rates will certainly affect construction costs and thus the index of structural costs, in which case it should be noted that according to comments at 2 g. The bill of Law No. 42/1987 was the building science value intended to show changes in construction costs from one time to another, rather than being a measure of average construction costs in the country at any given time. However, the Ministry does not consider it a reason to comment on the regulations of the bill and the main points of the matter that give them reason to do so. The committee suggests a change in the bill's value code so that changes to Article 4. The Law required for the sin paid in Leviticus. ....., results in a concomitant discontinuation of a law on the index of construction costs, based on January 1, 2022. The committee suggests that the bill will be accepted with the change in the document. Smári Mccarthy and Oddný G.. The tough Harðardóttir was away from the hearing. Under the committee, President Óli Björn Kárason, Chairman of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, co-star Jón Valdimarsson, Braunr Brynjar's Bryndís, Haraldsdóttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Þórarinn Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u102	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee of Economic and Business Committee for Committee members with a revised bill proposal to legalize a change of financial enterprise law. This is about the introduction of European types and restoration programmes. The bill is part of the implementation of the EU Directive on access to loan institutions and security monitoring of loan institutions and stock markets and security requirements. The law has been adapted to enable ministers and Iceland's Secret Bank to implement a Regulation that is often referred to as NPE and another Regulation, usually known as CRR II, as stated in the Commission opinion. It should be suggested that the construction facility and the credit fund of rural society be excluded from the obligation to work reform programmes. The committee suggests a reduction in the subject analysis of the bill's name. In addition, several changes are provided in the opinion of the committee. They're all technical. Smári Mccarthy and Oddný G.. The tough Harðardóttir was away from the hearing. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Óli the Björn of Kárason, Jólmur, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Brubbur the son of Níelsson, Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and Ingi the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u103	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the employment committee in case of No. 44, on a proposal for a synonym over the development of sustainable industrial policy. I'm going to get caught up in the habit of simply reading up the committee's opinion. There are documents in the council, and people can look into them if they want to. But it's not a complicated matter either. It seems so strange that in Iceland there is not in itself any industrial policy, a collective public industrial policy, a policy on how we are going to behave. There are some sectoral, professional, and similar policies, but there may not be a policy that deals with the industry in Iceland for a long time and how we want to keep it and what goals we want to achieve with that policy. That's why it's also called sustainable industrial policy, and it's key. I'd like to say, too, that they are. Councilmen who may come up below, we see, would rightly say that this was not the first time that this idea would arise, to establish a general industrial policy. It has also come out of the ranks of the candidates, for there are two forwarders in the council itself. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. There were three reviews in the treatment of the committee, all of which were positive. I think it's appropriate, though, to mention one specific from the BSRB. They suggested that a more comprehensive policy would be developed that would be linked to employment, innovation and education, including industrial and tourism policies. This was examined only by those who made this consideration of the committee, and we concluded that it was difficult to expand matters in that way. There is already a policy in some of these things, such as in education for creating and in innovation, although we could actually talk more clearly about how clear that policy is. But they're there. To say that, of course, it is the proper comment from the BSRB that industrial policy evaluation is to be made. They all connect to one another. This is indicated in the opinion of the Committee by the request that this be considered in the preparation of the policy. In itself, there is not much more to say that is not mentioned in the committee. Under these are the writings of him that stands here, the Helgi LORD of Hrafn, the son of Gunnarsson, and the voice. Councilmen Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and María Hjálmarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u104	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the General and Education Committee on this matter regarding the Schyngen Information System in Iceland. This is a substantial bill involving the launching of legislation as a basis for the change in the information system designed to support the cooperation of the police and the Court of the Member States in the prosecutions, to further the use of the information system on border control and to strengthen the European Union's policy on re-imbursement of third state citizens who remain illegal in the Schengen area. The case received a series of coverages on the committee, and we received reviews and visitors at a meeting of the Committee and pondered a few points, as mentioned in a committee article. Although we suggest a number of adjustments, which are mainly technical but do not result in much material adjustments in the case as such. If you don't mind me, I'll do it. President, direct attention to the Committee, we will discuss some separate aspects, including the activities of the SORENE Office, a central information centre, and will discuss some of the measures under 24-hour monitoring required according to the international agreement laid down here. In this country, there has been a recent procedure that the International Department is monitoring and acting as an office, but to do a daily monitoring, it is that the police communications center serves at a time when the International Department is not open. We on the Committee discussed this and asked the members who are involved in the implementation of their experience, and the results of the Commission are about to ensure that the existing arrangements ensure that the SIREE office and its services are carried out all day long as required. On the other hand, we add in the committee opinion, with the permission of the president, a text that reads: However, the development of new information systems now developing is increasing in the Schengen Information System. They inevitably include more clicks and actions, but their scope of projects can potentially lead to changes in the current global and communication centres. This is what we wanted to stay calm because this point was very much discussed. In other words, although we feel that our responsibilities can be met by the present arrangement, this can be reconsidered in view of the way pressures and projects develop. Secondly, we'll be dealing with evasion and departure of free will. We put it at a committee party that, according to the Regulation, it is assumed that postponing will be granted after the decision of disfellowshipping so that the individual will have the opportunity to leave the Schengen area without a return ban. We believe there is a need to harmonize the rules on this and to state that the above procedure is intended, i.e. certain discrimination between different cases, with a bill to legalize a change in the law of foreigners existing at the Committee. We contend that this point will be considered in that context. We also discussed the definition of voluntary departure. It states in a committee study, with permission of the highest power. President: The Commission presented a view that the definition of voluntary departure according to Article 14. The bill would be narrower than the standard. In the definition of the bill, it is assumed that a voluntary return without the presence of police and the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland can be carried out by candidates for international protection applied for the support of the IOM to the European Environment Agency, and in addition, the European Commission (FRONTLEX) has further emphasised the passage of free will as an option of forced departure. It would be preferable to define the definition according to the definition 8th. Section 3. Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2008/115/EC on common standards and treatments in Member States for reimbursement of a third citizen who lives there illegally. The majority of the items take the front and suggest changes to that substance. At that time, the term "self - will - will - be " has been used in a word - out but also in a speech - of - mouth - of - the - self - will - will - return though, further suggests that instead of using the term" free - will breakage " (U.S.), which is in accordance with the Icelandic translation of the above directive. Changes in terms of use are then proposed in other requirements consistent with the above. Then we indicate that certain regulations will be removed for legal reasons and some other technical adjustments and refinements mentioned in a special Senate document. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, chief. President. The Schgeren information system has been very important in the implementation of law enforcement in this country, and by implementing this with this legislation, we are ensuring that Iceland can continue to use the benefits of this system and that the environment here is in accordance with the legal environment in neighboring countries, which is the basis for this international cooperation to work on its own.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u105	Mr. President. This committee view with a new proposal is for a case brought by the Committee itself, and here I am aware of the opinion of the greater part. We received nine guests and to account for the contents of this bill is being proposed to legalize temporary arrangements as Ministers' households, if there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland and public health, to recommend the temporary duties of flight drivers in the regulations to ask passengers to provide more specific proof or confirmation of health, or otherwise to withhold passengers from transport or after an incident. In view of 2 mg, there were questions as to whether this law would last. 66. g. the constitution that includes: "There will be no decline in the arrival or exodus of a citizen. " The committee's discussion even gave it to them. to meet with the government rights specialists and, in fact, with lawyers'opinions, by contacting three different departments and in discussions with lawyers in committee field. It is clear that to the committee, quite different views on the above - mentioned matters have been developed. There is no precedent on how to interpret the law, and there is clear evidence that this is to be considered. In fact, there is no unity among scholars that the law, as some claim or actually does, fulfills its constitution. This requirement in the Constitution differs from that of other legal requirements in the way the Constitution renders it unprovable. In spite of this, it has not been thought that the law stands in the way of the normal rules of coming and leaving countries, such as the obligation to pass passports, although they may somehow limit the opportunity of Iceland's citizens to travel to their home state. At the same time, it has not been thought to prevent the U.S. government from selling an Icelandic citizen to another nation if he is suspected, or has been convicted, a penalties in that state. Thus, in spite of the wording of the law, it will not be brought about by the unscrupulous right of the Icelandic citizen to the instant, and I will repeat immediately, without regard to other circumstances. ................... monitoring should be based on a dose of 4 mg. 42rd. Refuse Air Travels, No. 60/1998, when necessary, is authorised by the captain to deny air traffic intake or point off terminals, passengers, or goods. In general, it has been thought that such a need may include has been used to prevent the spread of epidemics. It is proper to state that in this case, both the IATA International Air Force and the pilot's custody are not allowing passengers to become a pilot's home. However, if a drunk person comes to that desk, for example, it is an employee who does this. denied access. In this case we are discussing this, of course, the Icelandic lawgiver is to lay these duties upon all pilots. There is a difference, but the result is the same. As for the lawgiver's sources, I'd like to read from the Commission opinion, with the permission of a president: ▪ The more part believes that the Constitution's requirement for safety for the Icelandic citizen will not be denied coming to the country cannot prevent the legislative legislation on arrival to the country needed to ensure safety of the public and reduce the risk of the spread of a life-threatening infectious disease during a pandemic. The Lawgiver may end up following the principles of an obligatory governmental directive and base his decisions on a grammatical view of such rules. This includes some. that rules are set for legitimate purposes, and burdensome intervention is set for as much as possible to achieve that purpose. Of course, it is possible to debate the grammatical views or legalities of this purpose, but because of the majority of the segment's position, the view is that it is critical to limit the arrival of passengers infected by Covid-19 to reduce the risk of transmission of infection into the community through the border with associated health and economic consequences. In addition, such measures are falling to reduce stress on the border of a passenger's screening, while it is still not clear that by increasing air traffic there will be a great delay in the removal of visitors at the Cheflavour airport with the potential risk of large groups formations and an increased risk of infection. So the shoes are being made to double the opinion of witnesses, one when leaving abroad, and then again when we arrived here in the country, being the best way to deal with these things, making these are moral arguments and viewpoints. Regarding a moderate measure, it must be noted that the Minister's decision to apply the warrant under the Regulation must be based on the principles of the administrative rights, including the views of moderate and grammatical grounds, and the same when reviewing the Regulation. I'm going, with President's permission, to continue and read two paragraphs, a little long, from the committee opinion: The ▪ The more important point is that the irreversibly available is generally very good in the regions that are flown directly to Iceland. The need for flight drivers according to the bill is only a direct flight to Iceland, so it is not applicable to a first flight to Iceland requiring a foreign landing. Icelandic citizens, as other tourists did, must be able to obtain such proof, even though it may cause some delay in returning home. As discussed above, the greater part believes that 2 mg is to be rendered. 66. g. The Constitution will not be interpreted as allowing an immediate return to Iceland without regard for its other circumstances. As a result, temporary problems that a passenger may face and that result from government regulations regarding coming to the country will not be considered a violation of the Constitution. So here's to say a little later: The secretary's authorization to go in lower than the highest authority of the bill also includes that a minister may state that other data may be recognised equivalent proof or confirmation according to 1 mgr. 1st par. The bill. If the situation of the Icelandic citizen who lives in a foreign country is beyond his ability to obtain the necessary certificate, it must be assessed on a grammatical basis whether any other evidence might therefore be equivalent. In this case, the possibility of forming a confirmation, e.g. from the local competent authority it is not possible to perform a certain test that meets the conditions or proof of a doctor's sign which confirms the condition whereby a passenger is not able to perform a certain test should be evaluated sufficiently. Since the State Department's Civil Service is regularly providing citizens in emergencies abroad, more part is encouraged to ensure that, at the contract of the Regulation, a minister should consult with the State Department on the shape of objective criteria, thereby using the knowledge and experience of civil service to ensure that, in this case, an Icelandic citizen is at all costs to reach the country. I add this from my own heart that it does not mean that this return can be immediate. ▪ In view of the coherence issues, it is urgent that the law applies to all comelers, but it is clear that the level of the disease prevention procedure recommended by the bill is greatly reduced if the Icelandic citizens were immune to the rule. Experience has shown that only one infection is needed to trigger a group infection or even a new wave of community infections. Counts the larger part to be nonverbal evidence to discriminate passengers on the basis of the state's stake in regard to the bill. Then here's the conclusion I'm going to add, Mr. President: The majority of the authorization of the Ministers to temporarily oblige the flight drivers to withhold passengers for transport does not further indicate proof or confirmation, cr. b- team 1.mg. 1st par. The bill, will not be equal for government to harm Icelandic citizens to come to the country in the sense of 2. mg. 66. g. The Constitution.How much more so? So briefly do I explain the three changes that follow. The first in regard to temporary responsibilities, and this is the comment that the regulations of the bill had the time to December 31, 2022, but no boundaries would be set on the duration of a minister's Regulation that he was allowed to set according to that. So these were the information or comments we received. The majority agree with the above views and suggests that a minister must be made obliged to re-evaluate the need for regulations under the regulations as often as every four weeks. This refers to a moderate - scale obligation by the government. Regarding what is stated in the bill on the required valid certicates, as indicated, the larger part views and rights that flight workers are not expected to test the value of a Witness. This checkup only points to factors such as whether a cover-up of a document suggests that the required certificate is included, whether the name of the certificate is addressed in agreement with the passenger name and version time of the certificate. The more material opinions of a Witness are in accordance with regulations set up on the basis of the aquaculture laws and the laws of air travel and the instructions of a carer. In other words, it is enough that the word "to be understood" is found, but the word "to" be removed. " Finally, the obligation to take passengers back and the legal rights involved. Here we go, and then I'll read from the document, with President's permission: ▪ It depends on the premise that there is a government warrant for sending passengers out of the country during their arrival. In this case, this source is collected at 8 mg. 13th par. a paradox that states that it is permitted to refer to an alien resident who is not living on land at arrival, including a member of the United States. on the basis that he has failed to comply with the command given at 2,◯5. mg 13th par. Under these circumstances, they also fall. referral to medical records. It is clear from the wording of the law that the authority applies only to dismissing an alien resident who is not on the land. It is therefore forbidden to dismiss from the country of the United States as well as those who have the right to reside on the land according to the regulations. This is in full agreement with 2 mg. 66. g. The Constitution that Icelandic citizens will not be expelled from the country. With a c- team 1 mg. 1st par. is obliged to take passengers back to their destination. The cost of such a transport would fall on an aeroplane driver who should be reassigned to the appropriate passenger. The Committee's review showed that it was very burdensome for a pilot who has carried out his duty in accordance with the 1st. mg, which I took earlier to find out if a passenger has the necessary certificate to transport a passenger back to his place of departure [...] The majority of the reports show that national deportation and deportation on the basis of cosmology is otherwise at the expense of the State. The majority do not feel justified that a pilot will be required to move, at his own expense, to a passenger from the country, to perform his duties. Of course, we're discussing foreign guests, so I reiterate it once again. It's not part of the Icelandic citizen business here. The majority suggest c-axis 1.mg. 1st par. The bill will be removed and the sum should be fined according to 2 mg. increase so that they can, in the most serious cases, study up to 1 billion. K. ... foran extraordinary violation of every passenger. That is what the committee reads with a few explanations about me. These physical changes are just three. First of all, C- teams 1st will be removed. Second: After paragraph 1, a new paragraph will appear, as follows: ▪ A new paragraph. 1.mg. may be reviewed less frequently than every four weeks. Third and final: Instead of the words ◯ from 100 thoust. K. ... to500you. 2.mg/ml, respectively. come to you: from 200 yrs. K. To 1 million. K. Under this heading, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, executive director, Jón Gunnarsson, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Linika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Mr. President. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u106	Mr. President. Hv. In his historical history, a senator reviewed that there was no unity among scholars as to whether b-joints 1. 1st par. The bill was a constitution. Nor was single among members of the committee reflected, for example. In that while all the committees, except for the Piranha, presented the bill, it is only representatives of the administrative organisations that stand to the committee because the bill's b-inside is still suspended as tools on whether it is a constitution. The commission puts this into practice, so there is no precedent for taking the judicial action to interpret the law in the light of the above. I'd like to pray. A senator helping me translate this into human language. Does this mean that the greater part is not 100% sure whether this law is a constitution and that it is directing people to a court route if they feel guilty rather than allow the public to enjoy the doubt?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u107	President. Like what? A senator pointed out that there is no unity among scholars. It is probably not the first time that there is no unity among scholars about one thing or another in the Icelandic government court. We can't even begin to dematerialize scholars, more environmental and transport committees. We have listened, however, to those who spoke to the stewards. We have listened to the scribes who are at times opposed, if we put it that way, more of the ones we have discussed are now aware that this is all right. Then we take responsibility for the fact that there will be an inconsistencies in society, and this will take place in court, in Iceland, in three courts. Then it is only in itself to decide who was right, the greater part of the Generals in this case in this committee, and the scribes who say it is all right or anyone else, and it is necessary for society to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u108	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said that of the scholars who came before the committee, however, more thought the b- team was okay with a constitution. That's wrong. None of the three scholars trusted to claim that it was absolutely right. The person next came to the point simply asked, " Is this really a real need for this?'In view of the changes that have taken place in the treatment laws? We are not verbalizing the opposite of the Polish in the field of learning but all the scribes presented it as a matter of opinion. No one is confident to give this proof of health care that more of the environment and transport authorities are counting on. I don't call it an inconsistencies in the community, as a respectable member of the council refers to it, if people consider a violation of the Constitution and then look to courts with it, especially if they get the conclusion that the Constitution has been committed on them. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, in the greater part, I regret to take the chance that this will last for a constitution and that people can only go to courts if they don't agree. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u109	President. When I said the scholars said it was all right, it was the exact contents of what they said. They were not at all sure if this was a hundred percent constitution, and they recommended that this would be done in order to get this decision in the end if someone relied on that procedure. If they think that Icelandic law is so waterproof they'll never come up with anything like that, then they'll do it. But it is simply so that an Icelandic community requires that disease prevention procedures be acceptable and not at all, as the senator said, that there is a change in attitude within the European Commission, that these laws are not needed because of what we have recently agreed to. On the contrary, lawyers recommended three advisers by saying that it would be submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u110	A respectable president. This matter of Congress is of interest. Of course, it's not a formal assembly case in view of extensive materials, because it's a matter of transport to a environmental and transport committee rather than a transport secretary. This, of course, will reveal, in the matter's report, that there is a administrative committee, which, of course, is a very special subject, especially in the case of this committee. I'd like to ask you what. An authority on what is involved in the legal matter presented. I'd like to pray. The manager to swerve briefly, even though he did not answer to me, but then in the second speech, in the conclusion, or in the opinion of what the lawyers before the committee referred to, their review, or the opinion of this administrative information, whether this could be the case, would apply to Icelandic citizens. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel that the majority of the committee's opinions are very flawed in that they never tore to any of the committee's concerns and comments or opinions that were presented to the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u111	Mr. President. I think it's a long way to go if we should've contributed, the greater part, a lot of tore up on this figure. For the committee, there were three executive executives who could be read here as to who they are. Two of them felt that if the public good required it, they included a number of examples that I also mentioned here in my introduction, such laws might be justified. One put it in a very gray area. We talked to more lawyers, and they had some opinions, but most of them were in that the public good made it possible for this specific paragraph of the Constitution not to be so unscrupulous that an infected person could be taken to Iceland just because he was an Icelandic citizen. As a result, they are under trial in courts, and all three experts were told that they liked it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u112	A respectable president. It was mentioned here that if the committee arrived, it would be so that the end of the bill would not be met in any other way. I must ask them how that assessment was conducted because, of course, it was a blow in view of the present circumstances and the fine results we have obtained from government immunizations and objectives and their decision to eliminate disease measures within the country on July 1 in view of the success of vaccinations, that there is here a bill of extreme burdensome actions on a border that violates the Constitution. But I also want information on why they didn't request representatives from other airlines flying here. This, of course, can be very burdensome. Although this is not burdensome for Icellands, it can be burdensome and can keep more airlines from flying here in the months and even years because such measures will definitely be fully linked and established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u113	Mr. President. Simply put, moving to the country is being opened. There's gonna be a lot of people here, and they're planning a double opinion of the cops they have. A double check will be taken to reduce traffic flow and to ensure that most people do not come to the land either infected or weak. These rules should be reviewed every four weeks, so that after four to eight weeks, if possible, this directive is no longer applicable because it is not necessary. I can't see what myth it is to accept these laws that lead to temporary regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u114	President. I'd like to point out the facts about the case - the committee presents this case, and he's the head of the Committee on the case - that what he is asking the Allied Council to do now at the final stage of this epidemic is to authorize a minister by law, who are quite likely to be judged illegally in court, to set up a regulations which forbidds the Iceland to come to the country, to forbid the Icelanders who do not subject these three requirements to come to the country, not only to the obligation of airlines to come to the Iceland. 66. g. The Constitution is clear that Iceland's citizens are not to be expected to come to the country. It's not clear that this is a constitution. That is what has been presented in the committee. A manager is asking a greater part of the Generals to take the chance of violating a constitution. Then will I remind him that he is finished, according to his power, to say that he has the Constitution of the land. [[The president calls.]] There he is requesting permission for Ministers to forbid Icelandic citizens to come to the country. Does he realize this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u115	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm aware of this. This has nothing to do with my word of honor simply because it is uncertain already. A senator says that there is a chance that he will be able to do so. This may well be, but for this there are courts, to decide it. It may also be more likely to be okay. Hv. A senator is no Supreme Court here. It's just a matter of trying to see if it's okay. I'm not asking the Senate for anything. There is more than one part of the environment and transport committee here to comply with the WHO legislation, and we certainly do so voluntarily. Then let's just leave the future, and hopefully the courts, decide whether or not we've gone wrong, me or why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u116	Mr. President. It's just wrong for the senator. He has sworn under the constitution to keep it. It can be achieved with a less efficient approach in terms of the change in fraction 1 that this does not apply to Icelandic citizens. There are other ways to go. If they break this, they're breaking the preventative device. If they break this thing at the exit, if they haven't returned these witnesses, they'll come to the country immediately and be taken from the police at a DC. There are examples of judgment, and it is permitted. But it is not permitted under our constitution to forbid the Icelanders to come to the country on this matter, at least not allowed, and has been repeatedly presented for the Commission on the subject of doubt. When there's a wrap, what? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, is it not the senator and other members of Congress to let the Constitution enjoy the doubt if they intend to keep their vows, keep the Constitution, and protect the rights of the people of the land, the basic rights which are unsolvable in the constitution to come to their country. That is what the Constitution tells us. Ministers are suggested to receive this warrant from law until the end of 2022. [[The president calls.]] But the key point is this: The Constitution is rights. [[The president calls.]] It may be suggested that a minister be authorized to violate these rights, and the senator does not even know that his word of honor is about this exactly, keeping a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u117	The president would like to ask senators to observe their words and not suggest that other senators will deliberately oppose the Constitution of the Icelandic republic. I'm asking senators to take care of their words.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u118	Mr. President. If there were no doubting, we wouldn't be here. [[Up front.]] I'm sorry I'm breaking my word. [[Up front.]] It's awful, isn't it? Senator. There are probably plenty of regulations in the constitution that can be interpreted in various ways. If we always took into account any doubt, we would back off with all the creations we agree with here. I won't agree to it. But okay, let's disagree on that. It is also quite clear, though, that a pilot cannot be obliged to bring an infected Icelandite to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u119	He has the authority to stop it today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u120	Like a drunken person, a pilot cannot be obliged to transport an infected Iceland into the country and put in danger of an entire plane. I realize that there's a difference between you and me who's working on a ban. But this is the point. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u121	President. I think this bill is rather strange, or the treatment for it. At the beginning of March, there was a Regulation from the highest level. At the time, I asked the secretary if there was a legal warrant to oblige airlines to deny the European citizens entry into the country. A few days later, on March 18, this bill came up, and I asked about it and got little answers. I wondered, " Is it the wrong thing to start with? Is this a post-requisite authority to make up for the mistakes made by the Regulation at its time? ' Then I wondered why it was so urgent to produce this bill, whether it could be because of the possible benefits of Icelanda on passengers, that there is no legal warrant for the Society to deny the Icelandic citizens to go up on a plane. Icland's interest is taking over the Constitution's rights to the Icelandic citizen?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u122	Mr. President. I don't really answer for the highest. Health Minister, but I just repeat, and I've spent a considerable amount of time explaining why this bill is presented: It's because of public interest. Yes, we know that now that moving to the country is opened in a way that has been now only a few days, the pressures of the whole system increase. This is simply a way to make it easier for health authorities in Iceland and health care in Iceland, not the fliers, to keep us at home, to maintain the flying and travel services that are being opened up here. That's why this bill is here. I made this very clear earlier, and I'm not going to repeat it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u123	President. I appreciate those answers. That's exactly what it is with all the discussions about the actions of Covid. It speaks of the public's interests and the need to protect the health authorities and the system from possible infectious disease. I'm asking why. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson to this with the Department of Health at his time, because to me this was closely related. This bill was to be passed very quickly at the time, which was stopped because it was extremely unclear whether this would last for the constitution. I've asked about it, and it's been asked about it in the community too, whether or not they're going into these operations and putting these laws on the intention of flying and travel. I just have to reiterate that question because it always looks that way, and I just want it clear that this is done with the rights of the citizens in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u124	Mr. President. I don't really know, I have to admit it. Now we're looking at paper and paper on the border, and I guess the pilots think it's burdensome. There is also another view, which, although very superficial, is being added because people will not have the basis for doing certain things that I did explain in foreign lands. How it's supposed to be, not burdensome, but intriguing for some airlines, I don't know. But in return, it has not been recommended, at least Not to me, when the ministry or to those who were consulted with these laws had to do with them, that they have something against them. I can see it, as I put it earlier, as an attempt to keep the disease prevention at a certain level here. It was in accordance with the opinion of the three advisers we spoke twice as a result of wishing that this bill should be submitted despite uncertainty about one or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u125	Mr. President. I measure a 1st decrease in part in this case, which is far from undisputed, as we have seen before. The manager considered more part of the environment and transport committee. I'd like to talk about the history of the case, which requires the permission of the transport and local government to set up a directive that requires flight drivers, including to deny passengers transport to the country if they do not provide certain information about immunisations, proof that the infection is over or confirmation of a negative result of a test. It is being referred to as establishing a law allowing a Regulation that obliges pilots, private partners, to forbid Icelanders to come to Iceland, certainly under certain circumstances, but we have a constitution that requires the unscrupulous rights of the Icelanders to come to the country. Despite the fact that we can list examples, all of them are unable to reach the toes, since this case has the heels of the obligation to have airlines to prevent Icelanders from arriving in the country. It's not a simple thing. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, head of the majority opinion, goes over the fact that this is not a simple matter. Apparently there are tools for the way the committees interpreted the words that were made when the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs began searching for the Federal Environmental and Transport Committee to deliver the situation. It was mid - March, and it was supposed to happen fast and safely. Happily, someone came in trouble that led to a new proposal from the Ministry. The law was then taken out, i.e. ... thata partner does not reach Icelandic citizens. But it went back through the system and didn't think enough. Then you've looked back and forth. The executive rights experts, we refer to the ones we asked to attend solely to appreciate this object - I'm going to let myself say, with all due respect to others, including the employees of the Ministry who have the case, that it's possibly behind others, at least More views - they agreed in that way so that they all spoke about a gray area. The first guest had a positive view of this in case of duty, the second guest spoke as clearly as possible that it was not okay, and the third guest spoke about the importance of deciding if this was needed. What happens in the meantime, from a specialist one to two until the third, is put in place very great barriers for foreigners as well as Icelanders to cross the border. Disease prevention rules are hardened. That's the situation, we go back and forth with it. I also wanted to contact the forebearance, before I consider my 1st section and the proposed changes we make, to say that the government has rightly courted the public, and to encourage the continuation of what hopefully are the final meters in the struggle with these funds. We're in good gear with all the vaccinations. We're taking over these new reductions in the border; it's being screened, and it's infected, and it's being screened. The number of countries called high - risk areas required for passengers to travel to an environment of infection is currently increasing. It's going relatively well. I'm not saying that it doesn't take much effort, but it's doing quite well in spite of everything. That is why there is a great deal of confusion about the survival of something that is no less than our constitution and the right of the Icelanders to reach the country. I have to say that the call for endurance could be a little bit there, too, because I'm putting a big question mark on the need for this matter over my head. The bill applies to Icelandic and foreign citizens. It simply means that if the law permits it, it may mean that Icelandic citizens will be withheld from entering the country. I'm going to tie up what's in the minority opinion. It refers to an unscrupulous standard of 66rd. The Constitution, with President's permission: The citizens will not be prevented from coming to the country nor will they be excommunicated. This means that it is forbidden to establish laws that limit the right of the Icelanders to come to their home state, to Iceland. So it is with the Constitution that the Lawgiver is clearly restricted. Similar rules are then found in the European Convention of Human Rights, which says, by permission of a president: 'No man can be forbidden to come to the state he is a citizen of. This is part of a fundamental court of civil rights. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm gonna back up and read up. I'm trying, in view of saving time, not reading all the minorities, but I'd like to interrupt it, by permission of the president: ▪ In the Government Court: Human rights by Björg Thorarensen, this right of the Icelandic citizen is further discussed. It says: ▪ Lawgivers are forbidden to deviate from instructions 2 mg. 66. g. and that, of course, applies to the executives of the European Commission. It is forbidden that the country's conditioned rights of citizens in some way will not be excommunicated because of criminal conduct nor will it be prevented from coming to this country on a ground for example. It is not against this court, although Icelandic citizens must obey laws that apply to their arrival and departure, e.g. to report on passport control and passports, showing that they are Icelandic citizens and that they have this right. The same can be said when you pick up the law as an argument, this prohibition against the law, that airlines have the right to forbid drunken passengers to come on board. That's not what it's about. It's about us talking about the law that's obliging the airline to ban. Of course, this is a fundamental difference. The passport's presentation is primarily proof of civil rights, and if there's any evidence, it's a diplomat. In view of the 1st part of the committee, administration rights specialists met with the committee and there was an opinion that I studied in the grey area that the committee should respect, in view of my share, i.e. that the state must not use the authority to prevent passengers who have passports to confirm the Icelandic citizenship may enter the country. I'd like to take it directly into the Committee opinion 1st, which says, by permission of the President: A section of the Committee presents the view that the rendering of 2 mg. 66. g. The Constitution will not be interpreted as a means of temporary mismanagement for which a passenger may be affected and will result from government regulations about coming to the country, from a violation against the Constitution. However, they may be in such situations because of health, financial problems, or the unfaithfulness of a community situation in the state where they are in a state where they are not able to obtain the proof that the majority of the committee suggest that they be obliged to give a witness. The plight of the Icelandic citizen may make it necessary for him to make sure that he is safe to return home as soon as possible. We're talking about how these situations can arise from a situation that can be very damaging and dangerous, it could be impossible for an Icelandic citizen to get these data to get home. To think that it can go up and refer to the civil service of the foreign agency -- then it's just taking a chance with the welfare of an Icelandic citizen that I think, and to us who represent my 1st, there's no evidence in the light of the situation as it is today, in addition to the big gray area that we are on when it comes to a possible violation of the constitution. In the country's general treatment measures, such as screening for return and infestation, following incidents in a special place of transportation, as required by a recent regulations, are considered to be less than 1st strong and achieve the goal of seeking in the interests of disease prevention. In view of the memory of part 1, it is possible that by attaching such limits to law, we are going against the Constitutions of the rights of the Icelandic citizen to come to the country at a time when strong defenses in the interest of disease are fully guaranteed. Mr. President. Disease control is action in the interests of rich public interest. I don't think any of us have any doubt about that. For this reason the government has the right and duty to protect the lives and health of the people of the land. Part 1 suggests that this responsibility and the right of governments are both important and clear. It is impossible to ignore the views of experts in the administrative rights that have pointed to the unrepeatable rights of Icelandic citizens in this respect when the need for the law is simply not clear. After the cross-examination of the border called on the Committee, as mentioned by one of the administration experts, the last member of the Commission meeting, according to the information or viewpoint of the advisers involved in whether this was needed, whether such strict laws were needed, this uncertain intervention in the Constitution, in view of the current application laws. The answers were not very meaningful, but somehow it was important because we were getting so many tourists in the country and so much pressure on the border that it would be better to grow up on a foreign border. This, Mr. President, is not a basis for taking the risk that we are putting laws contrary to the Icelandic constitution and breaking the constitution of the Icelandic citizen's administrative rights and may in some way be putting their health in danger. We have no idea what situations may arise when Icelanders are trying to come to their homes. Besides, I'm pointing out that we're not talking about Icelandic citizens who are truly sick and who need to get home, we're talking about Icelandic citizens who can't prove that they're not sick and want to get home. It also differs considerably in view of the length of the proposal. So, to reiterate it, I feel that my focus is less than 1 bit on the uncertainty of an intervention in the Constitutional rights of Icelandic citizens and the uncertainty of the need of this law. I mean, I mean, it's not about disinfectants. We are not increasing the risk that people infected with the land will come here to be infected with it. That fence is in place. We're losing pressure on the border at the expense of this Iceland's citizen. In this given, 1st contributes to the change of 1st. Be added to the new material, which will be 2 Timothy 3: 1. mgr., as follows: Despite b-joins 1.mg. obligates to withhold passengers from transport to Icelandic citizens. In other respects, the 1st smaller things take more part of the adjustment proposal, and the approval of this adjustment proposal suggests that the case will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u126	Mr. President. I present with the Committee to Refect Article 2 of the Environment and Transport Committee on this matter. We believe that there is considerable doubt in the subjugation of both b-joins 1. 1st par. The bill, that a minister be able to oblige pilots to deny passengers access to land on certain occasions, be able to withstand Icelandic citizens in light of 2 mg. 66. g. The constitution that reads so by permission of the President: It will not be avoided coming to the country nor will it be excommunicated. Mr. President. It is a heartless expression. The wording in this law stands out for its inexorability. The source of the Icelandic citizen to his country is historically closely related to the civil rights as he is defined and understood and what that right involves. That right is the basis for a warrant for a return to the country. It's the basic rights of the citizen's rights and it's been from the very beginning. This is one of the basics of the system on which the citizenship rights are based. For the Environment and Transport Committee, several experts came to the administration rights. It is true that the speaker's speech in the history of the 1st minor part and majority of the committee shows that their viewpoint was certainly different in terms of the possible application of the bill's laws, whether their bait might be considered as 2 mg. 66. g. The constitution. That was not a matter of opinion. All I want to do is make comments about what was said in the language of the day. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson, that these experts have said that it would be a good idea that this would be considered or tried or revealed - I don't feel a great responsibility in such a reaction if it was possible to administer or perform some kind of trial, or based on some of their theoretical interest in seeing the outcome, I don't think that it's a great responsibility to accept it from academic interest, not at all. Thus, the application of the law in the bill might seem to be tantamount to the fact that Icelandic citizens would not come to the country. This may frame what humans were afraid of, that the change might be considered tantamount to being prevented from coming to the land. Of course, if these issues arise, they will be used. And, of course, these matters arise. These issues will arise. Such issues could easily arise, and thus, Mr. President, the danger is nearer. It's predictable. It's close and predictable. If thought, and this leads to the belief that this law is contrary to a constitution, that these quotations of the Constitution will lead to a failure of state funds, Mr. President - to enforcing such a law on this imminent danger is not a good response. The theoretical interest in the solution material or the decision of the courts is just not enough reason, Mr. President. It's just that, in my opinion, not enough of a reason, just not at all. I think it's reckless, and it's not acceptable for us here at the Council. Of course, if there is a danger, we should not go that way, no matter how interested the outcome later, because this is, of course, a violation of the city's rights and also creating a government fund of liability. As a result, a smaller portion of the bill feels that there is a significant risk that it is quoted in the terms of the bill, i.e. its application to Icelandic citizens would be considered a violation of the quoted principles of the Constitution. We believe that the Constitution should be interpreted to provide widespread protection to the Icelandic citizens and that protection must be maintained in all situations. This is not ensured by an existing bill. A lower share of the opinion that the state's budget will be due to damage caused by damage attributed to a flier's duty to deny an Icelandic citizen's access to land, to the extent that this obligation would be considered equivalent to refusing to come to the country's citizens in the sense of the Constitution. At the same time, 2. smaller things warn of the real need for this law, which is such a second factor, not only the constitution risk, but also the need for the legislation. Some of them what? The members of Parliament have made a special objection to this bill as to what is really necessary today because it is not long since this bill was released, in March of March, and at the time it was due to pass through the council preferably in one or two days. Then it's been one and a half months at least And now it is to 2 Peter 3: 1. Um, so it falls on. The value time of the bill is limited. It is temporary, so you can ask, "What's the rush? " Is this necessary? What is the situation of the epidemic? I understand that vaccination is going well, there is not much news of illness and least serious illness, so who is this key to going through, taking this risk about the Constitution, and now presenting this bill with this force that seems to be in coming through here right now, finally at the beginning of May? Is this necessary because this is temporary and the epidemic is falling? The illness is not serious, but the bill should still pass through, perhaps because of its unique theoretical interest in scholars and to see results regarding the risks of the constitution. By means of the Ministry Department, the bill was submitted to by the Ministry itself and found it necessary to be a law as soon as possible. Since then, many changes have been made in the environment of the environment, which is another factor. Since then, new measures have been set in the treatment laws that change the situation very much and are authorized by the authorities to take on visitors to the country in a very different way than they once did. So it also builds up my question about the need for this legislation now, so late, when the bill has been drawn for a month and a half. Finally, 2 smaller points indicate that in view of this, it has not been demonstrated that there is still an urgent need for the legislation under consideration. A lower share is opposed to the approved bill, but supports the change and support of the third section of the Committee for c-joints 1 mgr. 1st par. The bill will come out. Of course, we support that the most dangerous provision will go out, which is then an improvement. We're here to support the elimination of it. Other than that, we cannot support this bill. We now appreciate the suggestions of the 1st smaller things as far as they can go and will support their adjustments as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u127	Mr. President. I would like to briefly address the committee's opinion of changing the bill to correct a change in air travel law, No. 60/1998, but this law is now being revised, or it has a new environment and transport bill waiting for coverage. That's a lot of law code. We're here on a small scent of modern air travel laws dealing with the duties of pilots for Covid-19. It's a fairly important bill and an urgent one. The assignments that we are in the middle of a pandemic need to be carried out in organized, purposeful fashion. There is no need to question the fact that the project really is a rich solid solidarity. We're talking about national and national benefits, and it was made clear that there is no disagreement on the objective and the importance of ensuring the risk of risk management where possible. The bill has been discussed for a few weeks, and this big issue of opinion was settled from the committee in a conflict. There are three committee opinions, and I'm part of a committee list 1. We in the United States have been determined and able to give detailed suggestions on dealing with this visitor, who is responsible for the Covid-19 and who have supported the issues well on the basis of it, but we have made extensive comments on how to approach and approach. The head of the welfare committee, what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, from the beginning of the Covid Mountains, has emphasized that all the steps we take, which are decisive and influence the lives and lives of individuals and families in Iceland, must have strong legal ground and employ clear laws. The rules set must be supported by clear legislation must be in accordance with the law. Sadly, there has been a slight lack of legs. In this regard, it is the legal issue of thought, and there is doubt. It has been applied to the very basic laws of the Icelandic community, the Constitution, and referred to 2 mg. 66. g. The law that says, by permission of the president, "The citizens of state will not be prevented from coming to the country or being exodus. " It will not be clearer and without benefit, as it has been, as it is, like a crown. Special Agent I, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, mentioned, of course, a similar law in the Annex of the European Convention. That's why we want to stop and be careful. If this bill becomes the law, it means that in certain cases the pilots will be required to deny the Icelandic citizens'arrival in the country an obstacle and immediately. Interestingly, this is a setting of sunsets. It is temporary, but it has to be until the end of the year 2022. In fact, a minister is required to appoint a Regulation and review it every four weeks. Of course, this temporary arrangement for the end of the 2022 year gives us thought in view of the length of the time when changes were made recently in the treatment laws. As noted in the case of both the majority and the majority of the majority, there was a large debate on the environment and transport board on this directive. We had three administration rights specialists come to our meeting for as many times to discuss this law specifically, 66. There were some differences in viewpoints or differences in attitudes that prevailed there. Our findings were far from decisive and well - founded. It may be strongly said that there were differences of opinion, but their vision and opinions do not really give further support to this legalization, to our opinion, a legal system so strongly against the unscrupulous laws of the Constitution. It was evident in our conversations whether this law was absolutely necessary and if it would not be reasonable to put it aside in the light of the development of the matter. It would now be easier to control the spread of the epidemic. However, having agreed with the three Ministry, as noted by a leading authority in the greater part, it was concluded that this was considered urgent because of the expansion of the growing, increasing traffic, and thus because of the safety of passengers and their assessment that it was reasonable to accept this legislation. It was then discussed what would be involved, that a pilot's duty to demand a certain certificate and, if that proof was not available, to deny them the burden, i.e. To board a passenger plane. Similarly, they are being rejected from coming to their home with reference to 66 C.E. par.? Or can it be justified by saying: "Not just now, you are allowed to come when you have received the necessary proof? ' This is the case, for if the person has the need and circumstances of the individual, the flight is really the only option to get to his home. It is farfetched to point out that there is a ship and that the person could be invited to take a ride with some such vehicle. There are a number of scenarios of a situation that may develop in Iceland, perhaps a family of children, who are refused to walk on board according to planned international flight plans. Hv. An authority on the 1st part did well over the circumstances that might arise. Mr. President. There is another reason to kill, not in the long, long - term, but that is the small - scale flight security factor. As we have seen, there is no judgment example regarding this requirement. To us, in part 1, of course, this means that the Lawgiver should be very careful on this matter, and it is unwise to accept a bill with the underlying issue that on certain regulations has not been tried and even given the ball in the light of the recent failures. The track's starting to scare. Without a doubt, though, this subject is a legal subject. In view of the fact that a review of the treatment prevention laws has been performed, and it now has much better defences on them, a smaller portion of the law offered by this bill can actually create uncertainty, even some present and conflict, thus creating more problems, and a lower 2. Mr. President. It is to be taken into account that more part of the environment and transport committees were assessed to have been studied here by the Commission; this would be as far as possible. Although we called more advisers, more lawyers, this would be a major result. The decision was to issue the committee in a way that has now been presented. There wouldn't be any further. Maybe we can call it cold food. It would have to be evident what would be, that it would have to go the way it should. Mr. President. A smaller portion contributes to this adjustment primarily by making this strong appeal to our basic laws, to the Constitution of 2 mg. 66. g. It is proper to note that the goal of the bill on the great and the brain is that we support full feet and moats, as is true of course, to take control of this long - standing battle in the face of severe virus. But we think maybe this is where we should have done a little more with countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Brjánsson of Brunsson's heart for his insurgents. Perhaps I will first mention something that I missed in my speech when I gave my opinion of 1st. With me, that's exactly what happened. paritaprevir Guðjón Brjánsson of the United States Congress convened a hearing officer on the Environmental and Transport Committee, Ingi In Jónsson, Senator of Pirata. I apologize for my error. Hv. A senator noted that the need for this action was being discussed by the Committee. The question comes from one of the experts in the administration rights that we received to us, the expert who showed up after the treatment laws had been changed, and the rules were tightened on the border. It would have been interesting to hear the others after that. But I would like to ask. A senator would have thought that we had done enough research on how much effort was needed and then I'd like to mention the regulations presented today by a health minister and will take effect on Friday, in which passengers from 148 countries are now going to a risk hotel because the countries from which they come from are defined as high - risk areas. True, there are exceptions, but in this case, I feel very little about the belt and shoulder ties, even talking about belts, bracelets, and close ties. But I'd like to hear a thought. A senator and a member of my network of environmental and transport committees is whether we've gone to the same level.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u129	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When this bill arrived, it was under considerable pressure that we were using it quickly. Then the wind got a bit out of it, and we got more time to talk about it. In all our work, we always talk about moderate behavior and doing as mild as possible in our work. In view of the constant number of vaccinations, the percentages of those who travel safely, with proof, are always increasing, I believe that those who are on the move now, that is, at least Our faith, are well vaccinated, and the occurrences that would arise on borders would not be largely exaggerated, and this intensive monitoring of burden would be a critical procedure. Our advice was that it could be that this bill would not be needed at any time, that the treatment would have been overwhelmed so much that we were in control of the situation. But this is the attitude of the advisers: To reduce stress on the border, because we are looking ahead for huge traffic if corpses enter Iceland and, in that light, the Ministry stresses the reality of the situation. But I think it's overrated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u130	Mr. President. We're all for this bill to be agreed with so that pressure on the border, as is said, can be prevented, so if you're a foreign citizen and a tourist and are coming to the country, you can avoid entering the country in a place where you're going. That's just not the case with Icelandic citizens because the Constitution says that Icelandic citizens will not be prevented from coming to the country. That's what the new proposal is all about. When this is settled in this way - I think it must be agreed on in this way - we will have the basic objective of putting our hands on this overexploited tourist population. If a person does not return a negative PCR at the exit or a vaccination certificate or proof of having received Covid and is a foreign tourist entering the country, he must be removed, prevented from arriving in the country. This will be the case if the case is approved by leaving the Icelandic citizen behind. But what happens then with this Icelandic citizen, the very few who don't give back PCR certificates, etc., and persist, and then they've broken the treatments? Then they get on the plane, as many infected people have done so far - we know by the way they'll be infected, they won't seem to be on the planes. But okay, it could happen on the planes. These citizens come to the country and are taken by police because they've broken the disease laws, they didn't give proof - today it has to be returned to a place to go - and they're taken to a sanctuary hotel for 14 days. If they are ready to be screened, they can be screened for five days and screened as required by the law. It's just a few things. If the bill is agreed as suggested, we will take a real risk of violating the Constitutions of the rights of the Icelandic citizen to come to the country. The healthcare professionals and the high-risk groups and the oldest citizens have been vaccinated and we're finishing this, are in the final meters. Then what's this for? To stop a few Icelandic citizens from sitting on a plane that's caught as soon as they come to the country and are put on a socialist hotel with police authority as we've put in the law? They're coming to the country. What's the risk of being diseased there? She's really small. There was an argument about it when we were changing disease laws the other day and extending clearance so we wouldn't have to go to Iceland for an infection. It was being approved the other day. It increases the risk of infection within the country, which was agreed on the other day. It was the initiative of a health minister. You wouldn't have to go in Iceland for an infection, just show a PCR on your way out and go to screening when you get to the country and you're free unless you come from some very risky area. Yet, you can come from risky areas. The total number of people sitting on the plane who don't have to go under. The context of the parts is that people are willing to get the stream of tourists, to get an enormous amount of potential infection into the country, and to say that they were justified. I think it was a fairly reasonable decision because we're in such a good place. At the same time, however, this bill is being proposed to do something more comfortable on the border, but it is readily seen that these are very few Icelandic citizens who long for departure and then are taken with police authority when they arrive in the country. How many below? It's going to be quite a stir. I think that some who have some kind of resistance to all of this might have it tested to take it to court. Then we have another judgment on these actions, first to the Minister and now to the General, who will break the Constitution if it would be judged that way. This is not justified in preventing disease. It would be possible to move a little bit to the point where the risk is, prepare people to have an obligatory environment in Iceland, this responsibility that was decided to stop by the day, to move a little more to meet these events, these few Icelanders who remain on the verge of being caught by the police when they come to the country because they did not present one of the three Witnesses at the exit. This is not acceptable with respect to disease control. The epidemic has been extremely successful, and we are also very lucky to have chosen the way we were going. At first, there were some who said that the Swedish route was the best, and there was a lot of discussion about it in the community. However, our path was truly successful, and there was a 14 - day economist across the country. It was under law and constitution. It was possible to come to the country by means of a 14 - day quarantine. This was particularly examined by the board of administration and monitoring committees when we were conducting the DC on administrative grounds and laws. We did a lot of research. The 14 days of an entourage could be placed around the country. First, those who were not required to be screened were not to be tested first, being moderate in size. They tried it first. They could be screened and screened for five days, but then they had to be paid for, and those 14 days could not be avoided. But it didn't work, and then it was taken free. It didn't work, and then it was done. They were good decisions, and we supported them, they passed the constitution, and they were moderate; they were necessary in a sensitive regard. Then it was started and was supposed to try to drive this case through the council, but it began with decisions that were badly thought about and failed to uphold the legal order and were condemned illegally. Then the matter came to the council to get clearance, and we granted it according to law and order and constitution. But here, on the final meters, it is suggested that airlines be obliged to forbid Icelandic citizens to board unless they present one of the three witnesses. They come to the country after breaking disease laws and immediately being taken from the police. It's going to be quite a stir. It is not justified by disease prevention to take the chance of breaking a governmental law and setting an example - see what example we were setting for the future. The example of making such a decision over a few restrictions that pose a very low risk of disease, many times smaller, many hundred, if not a thousand times less disease - related to disease risk, but not even those who have to go to an epidemic - the vast majority of them do not have to go through diseases that come from green and even orange areas, recently requiring disease stress because of people. They are bound to be tens of thousands of times more dangerous than those very few citizens of the United States who have a desire to break and control laws and are taken from the police when they arrive in the country. That is actually the situation and what is in the balance today. Then there is an example that the Allied Council of Iceland agrees with such an overwhelmingly weak start of walking on the rights of the Icelanders to arrive in the country, the Constitution of the 66 Icelanders. g., saying that Icelandic citizens will not be prevented from coming to the country. Then there is an example. Then you can say, "Yes, men do this. " This was not particularly necessary at the time; it would have reached a very small number of individuals. Evidently, this was not particularly important, much less important than a few weeks ago. Then there is an example, such as why. The speaker of the matter quoted earlier, that men can be delivered out of the land. Then there is an example, not based on the fact that there are accusers who are being handed over so that they can serve punishment in the realm of wrongdoing. No, it's on such an overexhaustible ground that you can see. I suggest that these matters go back to the Committee, and we get clear information about counter measures. That would be, for example. can change slightly the countries that are there for those who need to be under obligation. You can change that. It would not violate the constitution. I'm sure he is. But there is a doubt here, and less measures can be taken. If you do not choose less measures when it is legal to limit citizens' rights - it can be by law to limit the rights of the citizens than you have to have legitimate reasons, which is not in this case because it covers a few Icelanders who are reluctant to, which are physically unable to see, because there are other measures that we can take in because we can get much more disease prevention by moving a little to the needle regarding which people need to be tested from which countries are coming, from more risky areas. This is not a highly advanced legislation. A moderate measure is not here when the law of civil rights is limited to those in a constitution. It's not just some constitution. This is one of the basic protocols, the basis for all your other rights. It's in the balance, so I'm showing it to the people of the country. We want them to continue, and we want them to be kept in good condition so that a foreign citizen, a tourist coming to the country, who does not present one of the three Witnesses, is not allowed to come to the country. We'd like to keep it that way, and we suggest it stays inside, which doesn't apply to Icelandic citizens. They are being treated only according to existing laws and are fully equipped for the treatment of disease. If there's to be counter measures, then the conditions could be moved to another place, as I was saying about putting more obligation anxiety on the greater risk zone, because the orange areas are under there, where we were changing the other day, and the exception of family anxiety. Respect the risk of disease. It's almost over and we're going into the summer. Let's not participate in this most important process that we've been in by taking a chance to break, and I would say that I would probably break, the Constitution of the country, and the basic rights of the citizens for virtually no safe purpose. There is another way to achieve much better control. Let's do it well. Don't trip so completely on your final meters. Let us be proud of these things and be proud of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u131	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, I am an officer of the Pirata Environment and Transport Committee who describes myself as one of the members of the Committee to agree with a committee study with a new proposal from the 1st smaller parts of the Committee. In fact, I can refer to a material discussion. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, who did well overseeing the information available to her, said: "I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Since I'm just a pitiable public officer, I have the privilege of describing myself as one of the members of the Committee 2. The amazing thing happened that the bill delivered by all the regular environmental and transport representatives in March changed to the management of the Committee that part of it refused to listen to the warnings of the experts and to the majority of them. The other part split away from the case he himself set out two months ago. That doesn't make people laugh. So I urge people to look at members of the Central Party,ISTs, and Group members of the Pirates, with the opinion that these are the opinion of the people who presented the bill but now contradicts certain factors in the matter of looking at it better. I might refer them to a committee article regarding reviews of the case and the statements. I have to start by talking about how bad it is in general when the committees take up the transfer of complex and extensive conferences. When committees combine to present a case, I naturally feel that there are issues that may interfere with extending time, dealing with some adjustments that need to take place quickly, or, as if we may have experienced an unnecessaryly frequent previous crisis, in response to social crisis. However, in the last few years, we have also seen that ministers can completely bring the rice blocks to the council and get them done very quickly. That's why I think it would have been much better for the Minister to recommend this bill. I haven't read the whole 1st. The point is, I think it's been done for the first time on the 2nd. The case today is that it's from the Department of Transport. A few representatives of the Environment and Transport Committee have said here that this case comes from the Ministry, both of whom are on behalf of the Commission. It is simply simpler that the minister himself does so in order to keep everything open, so that it is not hidden from the committee's work and presented with a bill said to be in the name of the Committee -- and is, but given direct directions from the Ministry. The situation is even more complex because the committee has had to discuss three or four different opinions in the bill. Although the Department of Transport is the department involved in carrying out the law, it is the Department of Health, which is referred to as a ruling agent as to whether these measures remain necessary. Is that the responsibility of the Ministry? Or has the council itself just solved the Ministry from being responsible for the possible violations of government law? Is the Senate freeing the Minister responsibility by stating this? Was the game designed to do so? Then I have to admit, Mr. President, that I was surprised to learn that this case was under stress after the rapid changes in the treatment laws two weeks ago. These changes were about to converge the border, focused on ensuring disease prevention around people who come to the country, focused on achieving all the goals it was going to achieve when it came out in March. In the meantime, I thought the Ministry had dropped on a better solution, so the bill could just go north and fall apart, but there's something else. The management staff kept on driving the case, and they didn't want to hear anything about the fact that the Environment and Transport Committee would kill it as unnecessary and would rather not hear of the fact that we were taking into account the opinions of a constitution. You see, the opinion is so simple, it's just that the government can't put a restraining order on Icelandic citizens. If the government does, if it makes a law that is tantamount to refusing to leave the country, it is not only breaking the Constitution but also the European Convention of Human Rights because the right of citizens to get to their homes is the cornerstone of the global system, the cornerstone of sovereign states. If there are no people there, the government is not sovereign. That's why 66 degrees. The Constitution is one of the key elements of our constitution. It guarantees the right of all of us to be in this country and to return home without us, this land would not exist. That is why, Mr. President, I must discuss the language spoken by a spokesman in this case, which answered the question. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's report that a flier could not be obliged to bring an infected Icelandite to the country. The obligation of pilots to move the infected Icelanders to the country and put them in danger of a potential plane is no more than the obligation of a pilot to move a drunken Iceland from one country to another. The problem here is that no one is saying that we're going to have a duty to a pilot to one or another, except a member of the management board who wants to oblige pilots to keep the citizens of the United States safe from coming home. The adjustment of the memory of the parts is a matter of putting into the hands of the pilots themselves to evaluate their own interests and flight security if there is a reason to refrain people from boarding a plane. It's out of the way. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson would not be bad if it wasn't for the fact that so many times it's been pointed out to be bullshit. It has, for example. published by the Department of Environment and Transport Committee. The point has been to delve into the system for all these weeks, and the case of the restraining order is so extreme that we have received from the Ministry proposals for covering the Constitution problem. In substance, they agree with what 1st small things suggest. The report that came from the Ministry with this motion on March 22, says that: ...the duty of a pilot/sponsor to deny passengers transport is not indiscriminate to Icelandic citizens, despite the conditions of 1 mg. not satisfied. In this context, according to Article 4, you should be right. 42rd. correct air travel [...] is the pilot who has the highest authority in the air, allowed when necessary to withhold air traffic, or dismiss it from pilots, passengers, or cargo and luggage. In general, it is accepted that such a need can be observed. used to prevent the spread of epidemic disease On March 22, members of the Governing Body received this text showing that all talk of the duties of pilots to transport infected people is out of the open air. So I'm going to ask people not to discuss it anymore. The problem is, however, that there is so little question as to what interests the bill is now to protect when the treatment laws have been changed so that the border are tighter. The only real interests I see right now are that it's inexpensive and simpler to just leave people out in countries rather than to get them to Iceland and have to house them in a carnivore. Mr. President. That's just not a good reason to break people's rights. It takes to respect human rights, it costs, and there's nothing wrong with that. The cost of violating human rights is morally much higher, not to mention the financial costs it can result from, as discussed in the 2rd reduction of the environment and transport authorities. If the Icelandic government obligates private citizens on behalf of the government to violate human rights in Icelandic cities, as government officials suggest, the Icelandic government is subject to harm. This bill is only necessary if people feel that they need not only the belt and the shoulder bonds that have already arrived but also somehow to wrap themselves in the cello. It's just not necessary. Regarding uncertainty in accordance with the Constitution, a spokesman in the past stated that there were a number of laws in the constitution that could be interpreted in various ways. Yes, the constitution is maligned in this regard, it is extremely vague, many layers that no one really understands, and can be interpreted in any direction. That's why we're looking for a new constitution because it's written in human language, it's clearer, and it's better. But you know what, Mr. President? 66. g. The current constitution is merely a correction of a governance board of directors' proposals. It is copied directly from the current constitution to the proposals of the Council because it is clear. There is not a much clearer constitution, but the fact that Icelandic citizens will not be prevented from coming to the country or being exonerated. They understand every human child. That's why I think it's a little funny that most of the parts in their members are more concerned about the Constitution's discriminatory policies. There, people suddenly say that there is no grammatical evidence to discriminate passengers on the basis of statehood in regard to the bill. So it's said against our proposal in the memory of the fact that we're leaving Icelandic citizens separate because people are being discriminated against. This tells the same people who are willing to break 66rd. or at least test it. The problem is, we asked exactly the experts who put the environment and transport committees into it if they were concerned about discrimination if we put such a change into the bill. These people -- that all put the b-parties, the restraining order, in the gray zone with a constitution, indiscriminately -- everyone we asked about this said: we have no concern of discrimination on the basis of a state when the grammatic causes are as rich and as clear as in this case. However, this draws more of the object up to be one of them. The uncertainty as to the need for this has been established. I mentioned earlier that there is probably some practical purpose in the Ministry to reduce the problems to countries where people are stable rather than have to keep people in food and shelter for a few days. But what happens if my share's adjustment proposal is accepted and the prohibition of entering a plane is only a duty to people who don't have an Icelandic government? What happens? Then we are faced with the possibility that airlines will establish the rules that such people should not come aboard the machines. According to the Commission's report, at some point earlier in the process, this may not even be damage related to the fact that there were only rich reasons for flying security. In other words, airlines can deny people a trip home - they can, that's the difference, that they can rather than be obliged to do so by the State. They can touch people's homes, or they can somehow get home, and they are infected. The law has become clear. The work has become quite smooth. Therefore, Praktic see is nothing that calls for this bill anymore. What I'm wondering is, if the bill may reflect some passenger doll in the management department, that in town people are working on some sort of self-activities, accepting almost anything from the counsellors. If it is said that it is necessary, then, only a given portion is taken as a result, while the minor metals reflect that yet a drunken section of the U.S. Congress is ready to probe into the background the suggestions being made. It's just such a bad situation, Mr. President. It's such a bad situation for the management board to accept a bill that people say they just don't know if it's a constitution, but they want to take a chance. There is no judgment example, and to make the courts more difficult, there are virtually no written reviews or proper publicity in this case in case of trial in court. The Supreme Court, then, needs to have a fog if he intends to interpret the council's will. This is the questionable case, for even a representative of the executives seems to expect the case to go to the Supreme Court. I wondered: If a minister spoke in such a way about the terms of a constitution, would that, Mr. President, be considered a deliberate or grand novice to violate a constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u132	The president suggests that when members of Congress speak of the position of other members of the body of elders with differing viewpoints, they are not inclined to be controlled by different views or motives and that they are not aware of their responsibilities, whether it involves a constitution or something else. In this discussion, the president's opinion of a number of words has fallen, but he notes that it is not just the last speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u133	President. I came in before Pirata at one of the Committee's conferences, but what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson has spent most of his time there. In January the obligation to return PCR certificates, i.e. that you have been screened within 72 hours before you leave. This obligation was set into a disease control code. I examined it, we examined the constitution, and it was permitted to do so. The government had continued to experiment with a 14 - day economist and could then be avoided by going to the screening, five - day districts, and screening, and paying for it. No, it didn't work. Then they could not pay for it. No, it didn't work. Then duty was required. It did not work that they put this obligation on the outer border, i.e. to return PCR certificates to the exit. We examined it, and, yes, it was difficult to do, it was moderate. That was the next step because the other one didn't work. So the committee has received information on how many Icelandic citizens have said: "No, we're not returning it? Is it really a problem that Icelandic citizens say, "No, I just want to get on board? That is what this law has to do, that Icelandic citizens will be forbidden to come across the country across what the Constitution says is their basic rights, that they cannot be avoided to come to the country, because they do not understand this PCR certificate. Is that a real problem? Has this happened to the Committee? If this is not a real problem, and if you don't understand what a big problem it is to solve by limiting and potentially violating these constitutions, then you just aren't doing your legal and administrative obligation to keep the Constitution. Has there been any mention of how many Icelanders, Icelandic citizens, today who say no and do not give a certificate, since January when the obligation to PCR certificates were placed at the exit? There's a basic element in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u134	Still, there is an indistinguishable comment on the opinion of other senators on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u135	Mr. President. I think I can claim that no figures have entered the Committee's board regarding the scope of what is being attempted. The latest contact with the Ministry was at the end of April, where they were asked whether this warrant was still needed in view of the changes made in the cross-circuits, and there was very short answers, just yes and no, as the Ministry of Health said it was still needed, and the other members of the Ministry were only referred to that assessment by the Ministry of Health. No data or information or numbers involved in it, but only assessments. This is yet another example of how bad it is when the ministry does not present matters themselves. Rather, it is mentioned in some form of advice on how to work them. There are too many basic data and information available in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u136	President. I have requested that this case go back to the committee between 2 and 3. Um... it goes back to the Committee. I know it's a rich will for my part. Then I'd like to include this discussion: This information must be available when it is said that it is necessary to do this. How many people do we want to say: No, we don't want to present PCR certificates at the exit? Then we know the scope, perhaps a few individuals. And then we can evaluate the risk of infection, considering that most of the Icelandic citizens will be vaccinated in one month or two. We've only come to this place, and the risk of disease is so much smaller. This alleged need may seem very obvious to me, since there is no other way to go than to take the risk of breaking a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u137	A respectable president. Yes, it's fine to go back to the environment and transport committee, and there I'll make sure these information is collected. But most of all, I would think that the management would just sleep on the case, take a closer look at it with a fresh head in the morning, and realize that this case is just to be taken to the corrosive. We don't have to work more on that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-05-90.u138	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from the employment board on the change of patent law, No. 17/1191 to the additional protection. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative of the Directorates of Professional and Development. The committee received reviews of the case from the Association of Industrialism and Iceland's Medicine Association. The bill presents a change in Factor IX. section a of the patents to implement a special version of the manufacture and export of the concomitant medicinal products while the patent is still under special protection based on a so-called additional certificate. These are so-called manufacturing requirements, sb. Council and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/933 of 20 May 20 May 2019 on the review of Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 469/2009 on proof of additional protection for medicinal products. The rules went into effect in the European Union on July 1, 2019. Its introduction to the EEA Convention is discussed with the FTA constant committees. The reviews given to the board were positive, pointing out that the change proposed by the bill would be to improve the working conditions of the National Committee's consonants as well as their competitive status in foreign countries. The change would also prevent future drug activities from moving abroad. The bill's report shows that details of additional certificates include two types of exceptions. On the one hand, despite the existence of a valid additional certificate, the manufacture of substances, or products containing the material, must be allowed to export to the European Economic Area where the material, or medicines containing the product, is no longer protected, or has not been protected, and it also requires that the product be marked with a specific identification. However, it will be permitted to produce in the last six months the duration of additional certicates or medicinal products containing the product, if only for storage, so that concomitant medicinal products can be marketed once the primary products no longer have the protection of an additional certificate. In the treatment of the situation, it was important for Iceland's interests to take the above exceptions to the national rights although the procedure had not yet been accepted into the EEA Convention, but it could be assumed that the induction process would take some additional time. The protocol would have already taken effect in the European Union and the position of the European Commission, therefore, would not have been comparable to the synonym manufacturers of the Union. According to the bill's report, with certain specific restrictions, the production and access of cohesive medicinal products are increasing. The financial interests of the European Commission in order to be first in the marketing of new promises are very important and therefore important to them to have the same resources as those produced by the EU. The Committee considers positive that the legislation on patents will be changed with the aim of improving the competition of the Icelandic synonyms in accordance with the synonym manufacturers of the European Union where the exception has already taken effect. So the committee suggested that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunn Gunnarsson, María Hjálmarsdóttir, Njálíðið Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
