ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u1	The president has met with members of Congress and has had the fine results of a informal agreement on how the program will be conducted. As a result, the program program for this meeting is scheduled for 3, 6, 7, 14, 15, and 16. Will be the remaining ones of this meeting's subjects today. In connection with this, the president considers an agreement that may last longer than the seminar, which is merely for security reasons because we have hopes that we will finish the day's work within the usual framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u2	President. The Danish Parliament has adopted a law on the welcome of shelterers outside Europe, and it did so with much more. It is in the eye that no one will apply for asylum in Denmark; no one will come to the country for asylum, as I have mentioned in a few talks. More important, it is to keep Denmark from becoming the destination of criminals who sell people to Europe and the hope of a better life. Danes want to steer everyone into a safer and legal route. The Danish government has made it clear that they want to work with other countries on this project. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice whether it is possible to cooperate with Dana on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. He is likely then asking if we alone would want to work with Dana to stop accepting people through the international security system and only receive them through the cry - out system. I think that there is a greater need for a greater solidar basis for the project throughout Europe and that the situation of these cases might be better today. More solidarity and success are needed in Europe, so it provides for refugees. There are more than 26 million refugees in the world, and in the fear - inspiring system, there are priorities, people in the greatest distress and unable to come here on their own. Therefore, we have also been trying to increase the number of the population of the country and to try to have our global protection system comparable to what happens in the countries around us, so that they will be there at the same time the priorities that are in the greatest need and will not have international protection elsewhere. There is also a bill here at the council to speed up the procedure to be comparable to what happens in the countries around us. I think these changes are necessary to achieve better results in this category and to help more of those who come here and need international protection. As long as the European countries are so incontrovertible, I think it's important that we give ourselves clear direction on how we're going to help those who need it most in this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u4	The president's request is that the clock and the time measurement go off, but the president is trying to figure it out at the President's table.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u5	Mr. President. This ossuary was actually incomprehensible, but I heard that the answer was no, to the highest degree. Ministers feel that this is not an option - I asked if it would be possible - to work with the Danish government for this assignment, which they have invited neighboring countries to join in. Then we must wonder what effect it will have when the Danes go this way and the rest of Iceland is moving in the same direction, i.e. to direct people into the formal hostpower system so that they will not become victims of criminal crime, and the countries themselves can control whom they are invited to the country, and at the same time the Icelandic government should go in the opposite direction and intend to ensure the same service, the same financial support, etc., whether they are going the legal, safe way or taking trips to the streets that sell the roads, including. Iceland, as we've seen. It's not a concern of the highest interest. Ministers that Iceland should do so in the opposite direction to the rest of the North? It will not have consequences in the highest estimate. Minister? And now I remind you that applications have already become six times as many in Iceland as in Denmark. As one of the reports in police diagnostics shows, there is the message that the Icelandic government is sending out on this and will influence. This will have an effect. Why is it the highest? Not even a minister prepared to consider sharing in this work with Dana?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u6	A respectable president. Of course, it is not true that we are going in the opposite direction with the rest of the North countries, though we are right by the river. A senator says we've received a relative number of applications. Especially is the fact that these are rules different from those in other countries in terms of those who have already received international protection in another country. And that is what we have been trying to change in order to have this comparable to other countries, which is exactly encouraged to do in preventing people from misuseing this system and in order to benefit best from those in their greatest need and from having no international protection anywhere. The situation is that there are a lot of refugees in the world, and countries need to work out how they're going to meet that situation. I think it is a challenge to adapt the system to the environment in the countries around us, as is the bill under consideration. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I hope that bill will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u7	A respectable president. Yesterday, reports of a new report or a project of OECD reported that no developed state will be as long after the pandemic as Iceland. Of course, there is a measure of concern. According to the forecast, the United States, Ireland, Japan, and Norway will regain the same economic strength as for the epidemic in the following months. Iceland, however, does not reach them until after two years, according to OECD, i.e. in the third quarter of the year 2023. The same report encourages the European government to direct their support measures directly to the most needed, not to take general action, but to direct their support measures. At the same time, we learn that every business bank in the country grew on the mortgage this week. The inflation has not been controlled, and the order of walking is over and over again. During our revere, we immediately - and well, we have supported the actions of the government - in March 2020, that the government must take major steps immediately. At first, we made it a point to take bigger steps. I think these predictions of OECD account for a certain degree under our approach, to ensure specific, not general action, because the crisis we've been undergoing is an unemployment crisis and everyone sees it. We have unemployment on the highest level in history, and it is blessed to gather now, and it is a crisis that causes differences in community groups as well as different companies. I know that it has, of course, been the guide to ensure health and economy and that a nation's well - being would be particularly protected at that time. I'd like to know what it looks like. To this end, Prime Minister OECD predicts how she looks at her, whether she agrees with her view of the picture being presented, and whether she will in some way react to the indications presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. If we look at the tips in this report, which is exactly about to take the measures taken to a more specific level, I believe that this is what the government has been doing. If we look at the process from the first action to the latest, more and more work is being done to create jobs and support jobseekers more fully. We see it as if our efforts to start a successful job, and many people are now finding jobs that have been unemployed for 12 months or more, which, of course, remember a tremendous amount of time. We have been raising unemployment rates and especially meeting children. All of this can be called a special procedure to deal with the unemployment, which I think I and what I do. A senator would agree that the greatest solution to the nation's economy is the solution. Another example I'd like to mention in this, because these may be the direct labour market operations, is that I believe that the actions under attack to further support company in knowledge and innovation are already under way. We see this to make up an additional investment, a private investment, in innovation companies in Iceland, which are very joyful news and can become an important part of the resistance industry. Whether our actions have been too general can be debated. Of course, they were dependent on various limits, so when we make this up and look at the support of our companies, it is evident, of course, that due to a drive-in scheme, a large proportion of those who have had support were the tourism companies, who have truly been the worst out of this crisis for obvious reasons. So my opinion is that the support found its way. We have taken reasonable measures. I believe, however, that what we have to do for a long time and watch to make sure that these predictions do not come true is that we will turn faster than those foretold.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u9	Madam President. It's all right and good and good. However, it is true that OECD makes this very clear; there is no developed state within OECD that will have as long to restore its former economic strength. It's not the government situation that says this, it's OECD that pulls this out. In spite of well - meaning and fine surgery, exactly what we pointed out at the outset is that they need to be more specific and to aim at them and the companies with the greatest difficulty. All right. We also saw that it was e.g. reduction in infrastructure investments, and it doesn't mean just to point to the communities, especially the companies in the Kraga, that they've responded late. For some reason, the government's response plan on internalinvestors was very slow. The pregnancy and the slowling were very heavy. Why were all these preparations not started? That's what's hard to see. At the same time, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, especially in the light of what was said about the innovation - I believe it is very important that we take good care of the innovation and the sceptre companies - however, the prosecutors of innovation and wands point to the success of the performance as the most important thing: Minister of the environment for innovation and wand companies at the time of the gang level? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the greatest obstacle to the innovation companies to obtain foreign investments if we have this hopeless crown. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u10	Mr. President. Only to the public investment. I must point out that the government's investment has been growing steadily. I think that it must also be looked forward to that after the first blow, the communities were involved. On the other hand, it seems that they are far better off than in advance. When we consider their income and results at the end of the year, the shock was much better affected by their societies. Of course, it is part of the public investment. There, however, we see the increase in government investment, and it was time. It is a very important investment project now being carried out, not only in an economic way, but in a social way too. As for the money policy, we see the inflation going down a little bit, and I have full faith in the fact that the late bat, who has kept matters very well under control of this crisis, has a very strong control of it. True, growth is now, but it does not change the fact that interest is historically low. I think it's important that we accept it here that it's gone really well to hold the money policy through this epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u11	President. We don't often deal with ideologies in this room, and we rarely have discussions about ideas that are behind our systems. What is the underlying purpose of the organizations that we have established? And do we feel that their goals are normal? News of the last days calls for such a conversation. The day has come when the employment agency has temporarily or completely lost 350 unemployment jobseekers in the last two months because of the rejection of jobs. The situation is as follows: Remuneration is expected to take jobs that offer no matter what the salary, employment status, education and the applicant's motivation. If people don't do it, the government will cut them off. What's this message, topv? Minister? What is the underlying ideologies, and what is the goal of this service? More importantly, companies are being encouraged to complain so that it is easier to turn their feet off. Are we really going to force people to take a job that they don't want to have just because some job got out somewhere? Are we really going to turn people away because we want them to work just to win? It's a lousy safety net, Mr. President. V.E.G. Ministers of Social Affairs should have the best interests of the people. How does doing so contribute to the well - being of people to force jobs that do not qualify for them? How does a company make money with people who do not care for the work? And how does society profit from people's energy being wasted in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this inquiry and would like to say it here at the outset that I think our safety in this epidemic has taken a major part of the individual and family enormously well. We've striven to do that, both when it comes to the unemployment insurance system and other systems, they've caught our people well. You can even see it. In expenses that will go through unemployment insurance, that system has taken enormous advantage. The part-change process was extremely successful. We have an extended period of income-related improvements that has been extremely successful. We can also see that in this effort, starting our jobs. That's where we're going to create jobs, we're gonna start things in an Icelandic community. There you have created 8,000 jobs, over 8,000 jobs, which have become available in nearly 3,000 employment contracts. This means that there are still 5,000 jobs left, and there are a wide variety of jobs. This is not only a travel service job. These are government jobs, jobs in the general sector. They are work in recruitment, organisations, very varied jobs. Hv. A senator asks whether the government really wants people to do work and take jobs that are available. Unemployment insurance is thought to include them when the person does not have a job. Yes, this government is very proud of it's creating jobs, it's creating jobs, it's one of the biggest initiatives that have been under attack. The clergy have always had their basic policy list that work is the basis for our well - being because we need a strong job life. We need a lot of work to do. It's this government to do. This new campaign, starting work, truly intervenes, and I rejoice here, and I am very proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u13	President. Appropriate work must be the basis for the well - being of people, not just some work to do. A year ago, a minister said that he did not want students or others on unemployment records to get money from a government fund for not doing anything. This is what the minister said in an interview a year ago. Is activity desirable, or should it be the goal of a person's well - being and therefore its own function and properties? To minimize conditions is to trust people not to be lazy and deceitful, apart from the fact that the facts show that people want to make use of their right to unemployment in order to find a suitable job. People want to work, but ministers treat people for unemployment, as if they were lazy and deceitful and want something for not doing anything. Piratar and I will submit a simple change form on unemployment insurance laws, i.e. that when missing any unemployment benefits, you also need to look for the job you rejected is not compatible with the individual's education or experience. I'd love to. Ministers would not naturally look at these factors when the government decided to turn their feet off, i.e. that the job was not compatible with an individual's education or professional experience? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u14	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen puts words in his mouth when she says that those who are out of work are viewed as if they do not want to work. It's completely wrong, and I totally dismiss it. However, it is extremely important to create jobs here, and it is this government to do so. [[Up front.]] It is creating a large number of jobs, and we have, by extension of the income - related period and by various measures, shown that the unemployment relief system has intervened at the height of the epidemic. But we're also catching onto something handsome when it comes to creation, and I'm surprised to hear it here, at the General Assembly Hall, when we're paying up dozens of billions of dollars on unemployment, that there are doubts about the wisdom of creating jobs and the effort to start work. That's exactly what was going on in the economic collapse, just a lot more powerful and much bigger. [[The president calls.]] We're creating jobs for all of this. That's the objective of this government, and it's going to work, so the person standing here is cheering up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u15	President. Yesterday afternoon, I had the honor and satisfaction of being a representative of the Gangsmen to participate in the placards of an open meeting of the Nationaloretical Association of the Iceland held in Hofi, Akureyri. The meeting was very successful, and it is reason to thank the Quantum Community for its success and failure in fighting for its population. It was even there. presented the results of a new Gallup study on how people feel about the various aspects of the welfare system. I'm just gonna blow a creamer off the poll that was introduced yesterday. About 55% of those polled agreed that the disabled members of their community should have the opportunity to share in the community. Attention, only 55%. Less than 30% disagreed, and 17% did not. Still, because of standing 47% in the community, who are prejudiced against disabled persons. There is much work here to do in overcoming negative attitudes toward the disabled in our community. Another factor I'd like to mention, a respectable president, is that 90% favors the efforts of psychological services to all like other health services. However, the government chooses not to do so. Another: 70% estimates that access to psychological services for children and young people is bad in this country. More than 80% of the health services in this country are to be free of charge and 90% believe that the non-efficient biofuels should be equal to or greater than the minimum wage today of 351,000. Sadly, today there is an uninhabited biofuel of about 100,000 dollars. lower than minimum wage. Here, a large proportion of employers and independent workers believe that microenergy pensions should be lower than minimum wage. I'm asking the highest. For the first time: How does he feel about the availability of two thirds of the country's psychological services for children and adolescents? Second, do the results show that about 90% of the population want non-deterred micro-energy pensions to be equal or higher but minimal wage that the government has failed both this group, microorganisms, and also kept micro-terrestrial under the poverty line at a monotonous national level? [[The president calls.]] The people and the voters don't want it to be the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I have not been able to observe this particular panel talk, but I have heard of it and have made a compliment. A senator to the Qualification Coalition, both in terms of this and in the same discussion as the group of the Qualification Society held during the last or last week, which was also very good. Hv. A senator asks what the minister thinks, whether we're doing enough, and we've already done enough to deal with the disability - welfare workers. No, we need to do better, and we need to do more. But at the same time, and I don't get tired of saying that, we need to reach out to the social challenge to reduce the incidence of disability, especially young people. It would have to be with some system changes, which I am disappointed that we were not going to be able to reach this ideal period. We were on the long track for the system changes, and I think it needs to be done at the same time. Hv. A senator asks about psychological services, and perhaps the senator should direct it to the health minister. But I'll just come in and say that I think that we now especially need to focus on psychological services, and especially for young people. We are taking steps to make a contribution now being discussed at the council. This figure accounts for 600 million. K. a donation specifically designed to improve the mental - health services of children and young people who are undergoing both health care operations at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since then, we have been taking steps at the Department of Social Affairs, for instance, we have spent a lot of time waiting for psychological services for their children who accept alcohol and drug therapy, so to speak. But I agree with what. A senator that there we as a community have to spit in over the years, and especially now, as a result of this reign of Covid, which has had a great impact on the whole nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I wondered: " How can a government that leaves such a large community in a locked, high - level poverty trap go shamelessly into a campaign and see that it's going to cost 100,000 dollars? on the implementation of this community, which is on the striped Social Security and the lowest wage? I wondered, and that's really just the one question: Ministers to the milkpots of the poorest Icelanders, micro-energy pensioners, and the people here horsing at least less than all the others? How is there anything in the world that can be drawn up for these people? I got word yesterday from a young man who said, "I just got paid, I just paid my rent, I got ten thousand bucks." This is bigger than tears, a respectable president, and I ask the highest. Minister again: How can you excuse this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u18	A respectable president. Of course, we can see from current financial laws that the government made a conscious decision to owe a trust fund to that effect. Protecting vulnerable groups in the community. This year and last year we're running a government fund into a big corner, so...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u19	...the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u20	A respectable president. I am very pleased with many things we have done. But have we created the perfect system? No, but we have increased funding for micro-energy pensioners by 4 billion during the season. We've had some tax reforms that are important to this group. Housekeeping procedures have especially affected this group. But have we done all that needs to be done? No, I guess not. We need to attack a system change when it comes to these issues. It is disappointing that they have not been able to meet together in this ideal time period. [[The president calls.]] However, we have been defending these lawsuits, and it is noted that despite the interest of a government fund this year and the last one that has not been cut down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u21	Mr. President. At the turn of the year, a panel has been investigating how screening for cervical cancer from cancer to the various local and foreign institutions has been conducted. It is good to relate that all experts who have set up the committee, except one leading to this disaster on the behalf of the government, are at risk by the government's decision to move samples outside the cliffs by the government's decision that women will be put at risk. The whole arrangement is so outstanding that for months women's health has been put at risk. These are cancer studies, screening of healthy women, but also studies in women who have previously been diagnosed with changes or have had a bowling section and therefore require close monitoring. Cervical cancer can be fatal, especially if there is a delay in diagnosis, so it is important not to have an old form of cancer, that failure is accepted if it occurs and changed if it is evident that a decision regarding a foreign investigation is not made. All the key experts in these matters agree on the importance of making a quick decision to cancel this decision so that the preparation of the research can be started in this country. Now it's the highest. The prime minister of this government, and although its case is not at its level, I cannot help but ask her if she did not trust our best specialists, who have for months, last this morning, sent a call to the government to change this course and correct these obvious mistakes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and I'd like to say first that I think it's the highest. A health secretary has had objective reasons to make changes in the quality of these screenings. She has studied it here at the Hall and no doubt also at the welfare committee. There is also a possibility that we have been able to say, a considerable waiting time, longer waiting than planned. This was observed last night by the head of health care of the capital area, but the waiting period has also been shorter and reduced by each passing week. What has been mainly timed is the registration of samples and results and is being made improvements in this process, which will speed up the process and result in a satisfactory outcome. But it is quite ahead of time, and it is quite true that it has taken longer than the expectations. The objective of these changes is to make this service more accessible to women because it is, of course, an enormous amount of health and equality. That was the basis for the decision of a health minister back then. Hv. A senator asks me whether to cancel this decision or to make other adjustments in an arrangement, which were likely aimed at bringing this recovery home, and it has been observed by the health minister that it is not excluded. What I expect to be the next step is that there will be a report on this arrangement to be implemented, as I understand, now that I am not exactly involved, during the first week of June, which is in accordance with the order of the council, and that report is made by Haraldur Briem. So, we're expecting it in every single one of the next few days, after my information. I think it's nice to have her in the house and then evaluate the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answer, while overcoming disappointments with the lack of leadership in this matter. Yesterday, at Caslight, the women of the band spoke about the health of women and the director of the capital health care and was a measure of pity for him, since this was not his decision but the government, despite the clear opposition of a large part of the Council on Cancer and a greater part of the screening council, was going to this mission. V.E.G. Prime Minister. It is not just the time that matters here but that professionals, experts, have talked about this complete lack of communication between doctors taking samples and investigators, that they are in danger, not being able to have a conversation about the woman's history. A new national assessment of national health based on gender and equality reports that women in Iceland appear to be in poorer health and better quality of life than men. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister on that message. In the pandemic because of the crowning virus epidemic, there has been a peak. The prime minister repeatedly commended himself and the government for following the advice of experts, and that was my first question: Why don't you trust our most advanced experts when it comes to life - threatening diseases such as cervical cancer? Why do you make months like you don't hear this call in all these specialists who come for interview after interview and express concern?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u24	Mr. President. I can't say what to say. A senator when speaking of the lack of leadership of a health minister. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A health minister has shown extraordinary leadership in this ideal period, whether in a pandemic or in another case, as I did in my previous response.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u25	I was talking about the inadequacy of prime minister in his reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u26	[[The president calls.]] Yes, I'll take the lead, in case you don't mind. A senator lets me get in. If she's in charge... [[Answer the question.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Can we have some quiet time at the Senate Hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u27	The president asks the senators to give peace to the minister to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u28	I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should be careful before accusing a health minister of leadership that will treat this group, such as it is necessary to do so. A senator should be aware. It is normal to talk about the inadequacy of the prime minister in this matter and to say more about the urgency of the situation. A senator. [[Up front.]] [[Answer the question.]] [[Then answer the question.]] It's absolutely in place, I've been going over it, that there's a report prepared by an independent expert at the request of the Allellis, it's coming this week. [[Don't you trust the experts?]] And as it was in my first answer, I think it would be a good idea for the General to review the report they themselves requested to evaluate this position. [[The president calls.]] There won't be any further talk, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u29	The answers can pay. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u30	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion on this important subject and careful bill, but I'm going to take into account the comment of an executive in the discussion tonight and I'd like to say a few more words. In the beginning, I want to guess what the bill says with the President's permission: ▪ Mansal is a gross violation of human rights that violates the privacy of an individual. The violations are directed against the freedom of violations and the most sacred personal rights in order to use the person's body, hard work, or knowledge in other ways. Mr. President. A bill with the bill quotes a report by the State Marshal's Department, dated in May 2019. The report quotes what it says that a large increase in the number of trustees increases the risk of man traders. This is taken up in a paper with the bill from a state police diagnostic report, Mr. President, that a large increase in the number of trust seekers increases the risk of human sales, since their poor social standing will allow them to be exposed to the abuses and oppressions. Mr. President. While we discuss this excellent and necessary bill, there is another seemingly different bill in the opposite direction, encouraging the greater flow of the trustees to this country. This, of course, refers to an immigrant bill at the highest level. Social Ministers who promise loyalty to all to be the same as the so - called Quartalists, no matter how they arrive in the country. This is a natural offer and declaration that will not be misunderstood and heard throughout the world. The people here in Iceland who are working on these issues, including as foreign counselors, they will not yield to this message. We are in the position, Mr. President, that we are running a course for this class as our neighboring countries, which we would like to compare with, other countries, are disappearing or have already disappeared and described as mistakes. Mette Frederiksen, Prime Minister of Dana, said in the discussion of October 6th, on the first day of Congress, in a sort of debate over prime minister's policy, that the course of the previous year was a mistake, the word she used, and that the European segregative system was broken down. It's known here, and they're beginning to realize it, including Because of news in the media, the dancing of the peer government, led by Mette Frederiksen, does not want a single fugitive on a dance bar. She wants to help the needy in their country or near home so that the money will be as useful and useful as most people. Now, Mr. President, this main policy of the Danish government, which was introduced in the leading election, has been announced when they were last held in Denmark in 2019, as the main policy of the U.S. Party, to send refugees to the Third Reich, has become law. Today's TV will publish a report that says, with the permission of a president: This morning the Danish Parliament adopted laws allowing candidates for international protection to be sent to a certain non-EU state awaiting the results of their applications. The United Nations Refugee Organization of the United Nations is concerned that other countries will act as such. The report shows that the bill proposed by Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen was adopted by 70 votes against 24. - You can see from these numbers and other talks about votes that there's much more to votes in the dance council than we're supposed to get used to here at the General Assembly. - These are very clear numbers. The bill is adopted at the dance council with 70 votes against 24. The report says that under law people have to apply for international protection in person on the Denmark border. Then it is transported by airplane to the state that Denmark has agreed to provide for refugees. There are people waiting for their affairs to be treated. If the answer is yes from the Danish government, they will not be allowed to return to Denmark. Rather, they will be granted refuge in the outdoor kingdom. If the answer is no, people have to leave that country. The bill that has become legal had been laid before the dance party for some time before it was approved. There were criticisms of the bill from different sources, including in reviews of institutions like Amnesty International. This review claims that the government's policy, i.e. The Danish government, for its welcome station in Europe, includes lack of empathy, inhumaneness, and the right to take refuge. The case defense of officers has meant that a significant decrease in the number of inmates, with the direction of the Danish government, will result in additional funds to help more people in their area. More refugees are protected from risking their lives on the Mediterranean Sea. Is there reason to believe that by this direction the Danish government focuses on taking people from different flocks, criminals might say, business opportunities that may be involved offering people on a killing raid across the Mediterranean Ocean for a large amount of money? As everyone knows, or as we have repeatedly seen, it is a criminal organization that is involved in this trade. Women and children are in grave danger of the abuse and oppression of this process, so the tolerated policy also serves the purpose of working against the human race.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u31	Because of what? A senator witnessed a dramatic participation in votes at the council, i.e. that over half of the senators sitting there voted, the president wants to be fair because the president is aware that the dance council has used it as a response to the pandemic to cut down systematically in votes but to make sure that the percentages are not broken. I believe that the council has done so much for the most part of the time that only about half of the members of Congress are due a vote but in the right proportion to members of Congress. Fortunately, we have not had to take this counsel, but we have taken other measures instead, just so that the Danish council has come here only for protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u32	Mr. President. I was going to add just a few words in my second speech to this, which, of course, is very important. I'm celebrating the bill. It is a step in the right direction, although I certainly would have wanted to see that the government had responded sooner to knowledge about human halls in Iceland, but it has been in the past. A very interesting report was published by the State Marshal in August 2010, 11 years ago, in which these items are considered well. You are moved to read what it says. The report says that it is very important to bear in mind that the term manal can take into account all and sex, age, citizenship, race, and other identified factors are of no consequence. It should also be noted that in the 2005 European Convention on Human Use, for which Iceland has signed, it is stated that its approval for the abuse to be ignored in some cases by the relevant Member State should be ignored. This is true of individuals less than 18 years of age and those who have approved of dissatisfaction after being threatened, violent, pressured, fraud, deception, and abuse on the part of the more powerful party or misjudgment resulting from the victim's mismanagement. It also discusses what is the difference between a man - made dealer and an advising person. That's a lot of confusion. I'm not going to review it, but I'm going to bring it up in this report, and I think it's very important that the members of the council study the report. I would also like to mention that it is important for the public to be a little alert to where the manor can take place. The report gives just some examples of activities in which human halls may be traveling. It is very interesting, and I found it shocking when I read this report, to see how many people live in the community. A man, for example, had ideas about prostitution and the production of pornography, the production of child pornography, as noted, but then there are other factors; organized marriages, forced marriages, and household services, child care, and working in family companies. These include cleaning companies, car shops, construction work, concrete work, and agricultural work. Let's figure it out. This can also be involved in agriculture, and the production, transport, and distribution of drugs are discussed. There are other factors listed, but this shows how many of these things can be in society and why it is of utmost importance for the public to be aware of these things and to know these traits, which in some cases are very striking. The report also contains a chapter on how to identify the endurance workers of the man's house, and it is important that people learn about it because ments can be found in the neighbor's house. How important it is, then, that you have certain knowledge of the ways in which this might take place and inform the authorities and the police! However, there is also another problem that has been related to this, and it is common that human victims at least initially have little confidence in the police and the authorities, even giving false testimony. There's fear of the bacteria behind them, and I think it's very important for those who come to these matters, such as the police, to have all the knowledge they need. A certain education is needed to identify these traits, recognize the behavior of the victims, and react. How important that is! You ask yourself: " Do the police have all the resources they need to deal with, and then they have the funds needed to cover courses and so on, send foreign workers to study these subjects, etc.? ' These are all the very important things I wanted to present here. I'd so only like to come at the end, Mr. President, to enter another man-salter connection and that we can, for example, do this. pass on to developing cooperation. I mention our fellow workers in developing cooperation, such as Malawi, Uganda, Sierra Leone, and Liberia, but the last two are more involved in fishing and such support. In all these lands, baby marriages and mutilation of women's genitals are tolerated, such as. in Liberia, where 50% of all women have been affected. We are supporting these countries with a large amount of money and good work and staff work in these countries. I believe that we are also expected to take advantage of this opportunity, telling the government that we care about these matters and want to be careful about how to reduce the lesion in these communities, often at times some kind of censoral or tradition that has been practiced for hundreds of years. Malawi contains e.g. Children's marriages have been banned, but the law is very difficult to enforce. Then you ask yourself, " Why? ' Is this because the government does not follow it firmly enough? There we can come in and point out that governments in these lands must take action. I think it's normal, when we're in development and we're putting money in these countries, that we're watching over such things because, as I said, terrible things that happen in these countries, makin' women, and then baby ties. I think, for example. that of 10% children in Malawi who are under 15 years of age enter wedlock, a large number of children. In a group of children under 18 years of age, 50% of cases are maintaining marital ties. The figures are similar in Uganda, so we should take advantage of this opportunity. I'd like to encourage the Foreign Minister to do so right now. I would like to encourage the foreign services, the development cooperation of the foreign service and the workers in those countries to stay awake and to promote that we care. Of course, education is the key, and then we should contribute to it. We have come to the education of basic schoolchildren in these lands, and surely we are to be taught that this is something that is not to be tolerated and that is not normal in communities, children's marriages, and mutilation of women's genitals. I hereby challenge the minister of foreign affairs that he takes special advantage of this through the development of cooperation, that we do everything in our power to overcome the terrible lesion that such things are in these countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u33	President. I recommend here to the members of the Committee to recommend a change to the bill of change of restaurants law, housing and entertainment, state funds extra law, and the license of registered automobiles (investigation, opportunity license, and land permit). The bill suggests changes in the provision of the age-relevant Marketing Authorisation Holder for restaurants and lodgings, shortening the application period for opportunistic purposes, reduction of currency for the management of restaurants and innances allowing the sale of alcohol and discontinuation of the conditions that the driving station should be open to the public. A paper with the bill shows that it is built on the basis of some factors. of OECD published in the Agency's report on the competitive assessment of international tourism and construction industry, dated November 10, 2020. The committee specifically discussed the legal environment of travel services, but in the treatment of the situation it was concluded that both legislation and management have to be quicker and respond quickly to the changed company's management environment for tourism. It was noted that not only the number of tourists in the country reached the fourfold increase since 2007 but also that significant changes have been made in e.g. has not been adequately maintained by the legislatures and if the legislators have not been able to keep up with this development. Now there are a much more wide range of lodging opportunities, as well as large amounts of room sales in accounting services to leave the shared economy unsettled. Then there's been a lot of change in restaurants. It is important that legislation take into account this more clearly, changing the quality and the protection of consumers. The committee also discussed statistical travel services and the importance of identifying and publishing statistical information on the use of tourism in the country. the development, effectiveness and policy development of tourism. The Committee stated that there was room for improvement and time to re-evaluate systematic data collection, including taking into account the statistical information it is intended to provide. With reference to the fact that the bill is only part of the work to improve the management conditions of tourism, as one puts it, the committee directs it to the Ministry to take a particular look at the above. With 2 st. The bill is submitted to this change in 4 mg. 17th par. the application of restaurants, hotels, and entertainment, that a legal deadline to apply for an opportunistic license will be removed at three weeks' notice before the event. The change is aimed at shortening the treatment period as possible by stipulation of application deadlines and the duration of the treatment, taking into account the nature and extent of the event which may vary considerably. The Commission found that the application deadline was removed from the law. The delay had been one week before, but was extended to three weeks in 2016, with reference to the fact that the application for an opportunistic license for treatment may take longer than seven days. It was concluded that rather than completely canceling legal deadlines, it would be most successful to force a minimum delay in the law instead of in terms of regulations, including: On the basis of law enforcement and fire protection programs, as well as the events that are applied for the common opportunistic license that they need to consider before deciding to allow it. In view of the above, the committee agrees with this view and suggests that there is still a deadline for application in the law. Instead of three weeks, however, the delay will be reduced to two weeks. Other aspects of the development of the Commission are technical. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st 2.g. Put it this way: Instead of the words three weeks to one language. 4 mg. 17th par. The law comes: two weeks. 2. The bill's headline will be: bill to correct a change in the law on restaurants, restaurants and entertainment, State Fund extra incomes and licenses (Avilities, etc.).Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: %s Ásmundur Friðriksson was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and María Hjálmarsdóttir are signing this opinion in advance. Under the direction of Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Klæfjörður Hjörn Helgi Gunnarsson of advance, Queen María Hjálmarsdóttir Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u34	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill for integrating services for the benefit of children's success from the greater part of the welfare committee. In the third dozen visitors, the committee discussed this matter, and a similar number came from reviews. Then the commission received memos from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Personal Protection. In the spring of 2018, the local Ministry of Health held a conference and a meeting of early activities in the affairs of children. The results of the conference and of the work meetings showed a clear desire for increased interdisciplinary cooperation within the systems that provide services to children and families and should always have the interests of children in first place as well as international commitments. As a result, a lot of work started, and it is one of its products. Then, in the autumn of 2018, Minister of Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Ministers of Health, Education and Culture, Minister of Justice, Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and the Union under the Declaration in order to break down walls between systems, improve child - care services, and create a child - care unit. There the people expressed a willingness to work together with subjects that hear and affect the well - being of children. This led to the formation of a Senate committee on the issues of children appointed by all members of the council. At that time, a management team of the Council was also established in the affairs of children. Since 2018, many work has been done in these groups, on sides of the Senate Committee, and at work meetings and conventions where governments have had a thorough conversation with professionals who serve in behalf of successful children, interests groups, and children. One of the biggest points mentioned in the above work was that the government's building projects in terms of child welfare were to be reformed. The bill, as well as the primary material for the Children's and Family Services and the Quality and Health Organization, is based on the work and cooperation of some members involved in the welfare of children. The bill suggests that services for successful children will be integrated and that children and parents who need to have access to appropriate services without the barriers. The cooperation of a child's services to the benefit of a successful child is also formalized, as well as conditionally designed to enable him to deal with circumstances or difficulties in a child's life with appropriate support at needed times. The bill emphasizes that management and follow-up measures are as efficient and as simple as possible from the perspective of children and parents. Along with this bill, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childhood presents the aforementioned prime points for the establishment of two new administrative institutions, a paediatric and family room, and the welfare of the Quality and Observation Agency. The goal of the bill is to form a new framework for the welfare of children. They're on the committee coverage. Counts 5 and 14. The bill stipulates that the service provider is the one who performs the required service in the law and is granted by state or rural society and is involved in promoting and/or ensuring a child's success. The bill's report shows that the requirement for service applies but that the government that only affects the interests of children by taking the decision of right or duty, but not really performs services, is not considered to be a service provider. Therefore, decisiongivers, such as the county, are not considered service employers in the sense of the rules of the bill. For the Committee it came to the opinion that the politicians should be members of the Service Committee, in the sense of the bill, giving various services in behalf of children who do not subject themselves to their appointed role. The greater part of the bill is that it is not intended that governments be defined either as providers or non-employers. Rather, it emphasizes that certain privileges can be considered for service. In this respect e.g. Think of the role of the Foreign Institute, both the decision-making and the service of children, e.g. Farm service. The greater part of the section relies on its position that according to the bill, governments can be defined as service employers in carrying out specific tasks, even though they also have the authority to take control decisions. The comments in the bill should not mean that certain governments do not fail to fall within the range of the rules of the bill. Therefore, in definition of the service employer's definition, a definition of successful service should be considered, as is further developed in III. section of the bill. The report on the bill shows that it is generally not expected that a family and children's office will make work contracts with governments and individuals who work with information on the basis of the bill. Instead, there will be rules that include the commitments made by the government that are considered to be processing for children and family. The committee received comments on the above - mentioned arrangements and that it was desirable for a report to be referred to as that in some cases it would be more practical to make contracts. The majority do not consider it necessary to make a contract with all parties who will work with personal information in the Agency databases due to the rules of character protection and processing personality information, No. 90/2018. The Agency will have room to update the processing of personal information, e.g. by setting up standard rules that apply to all providers as well as special instructions on the processing of personal information in the Service Provider groups. So the majority fail to comment that more practical measures are required to meet the requirements for personal protection and processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, with contracts over the rules. Comments on the stratosphere of services laid down in III included comments and comments to the health committee. section of the bill. In particular there was a suggestion on the need to rather define the first, second, and third stages of service. The majority agree with the Ministry's assessment not to define the service provider at any given stage but to emphasize that each service factor is a phase. The needs of children may vary at any given time, as it would be indiscriminate to meet the same needs of all children. At this point, a larger portion of it is considered to be a service at any stage aimed at reducing the child's needs, where appropriate. The majority consider it important that progressive service be further implemented in the Minister's Regulation and points to the need for professional viewpoints to be involved in the progressive service. Thus, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors on Children's issues and the case of a Senate Committee on Children's Case will be responsible for this project. The bill is new to the fact that children and their families have access to a nearby contact and that a child is expected to be a local advocate when the need for more services is assessed. Contact contacts are expected to render a first - stage service to a child and his family. Then the contact will be expected to meet the child regularly and know the needs of the child, and it is important that trust exists between the contact and the child and the family. The bill suggests that the contacts of younger children are on health care. This can ensure the above factors, and baby monitoring is effective throughout the country and as part of the service rendered to younger children. As a child grows up, a contact will later move to a school where the child is studying. Contact is designed to guide, give counseling, and have a view of the services available to your child and the services he or she receives. When there is a time for a child to need more service than there is a first - stage service and there is a need for multiple services at a second or third stage, it is assumed that a local company would nominate a speech manager's service to the benefit of a child. A statement by the European Union suggests that contacts will be defined as advocates of children. A greater proportion of the committee points out that according to the bill, contacts are within the child's walls and that the child and the family should have access to their contacts. Contact projects are primarily a connection between a child and his family with a child's service system and the guidance of his children. He is thus to be supportive of first - step service in the surroundings of his child and his family. In view of the greater part, it does not fall for these ideas of cooperation between services to define contact as verbal. In the same line of reasoning, the majority do not agree that a person may, in some cases, be a member of the community service. A review of this point shows that a person's contact with the child can be a source of discomfort. In view of the greater part, if a child and his family did not have access to their contacts on a daily basis, there would be a fundamental change in the ideologies of the bill. The members of a community service are in a certain distance from the child and therefore not qualified to perform the role of contacts. This will emphasize the importance of integrating in an integrate that children and families can choose whether a contact will be allowed to access sensitive information on the basis of the bill or not. Then they are always invited to request service on the basis of local social services legislation, No. 40/1191. The reviews received by the Committee made comments on the educational and qualifications of the contacts and the advocates of the language. On the other hand, the viewpoints that weigh on the interests of rural partners, particularly the smaller ones, by keeping room for education management and their chances of getting expert professionals for work and, on the other hand, the viewpoint of ensuring that working with children is professional and that those with whom they are qualified for work are professional. The bill allows a minister to set up a Regulation on this element, i.e. The training and ability of contacts and advocates. The majority of it is important that such regulations require professional requirements but that there will also be sufficient flexibility so that smaller rural areas can fulfill the duties required by the law. Then the greater portion points out that in Article 24. The bill is expected to cooperate with your partner on the legal projects. The more part of the country feels that a job on the hands of a language manager can well be carried out by partners in the community's activities, such as 7 g. Law on Social Services, No. 40/1991, and that contacts' projects can co-operate on the basis of elementary school, such as pars. Law on Law School, No. 90/2008, and 1 mg. 45. g. Law on Basics, No. 91/2008. At the request for integration. The reviews to the Committee weigh different views, i.e. whether the integration of services to a child should be an invitation or an obligation. The majority stress the importance of integrating activities to children as possible. As we evaluate whether such obligations are possible, the greater part is viewed as having a view of personal protection and the rights of parents and children in order to influence their own lives. The majority agree with the Ministry's opinion that integrating services should be optional, but it emphasizes that this factor, like any other component of the bill, will be evaluated from experience and revised if necessary. The majority, though, shows that the situation may arise that a parent does not have insight into his or her child's needs. It is then important that the services be involved and determine if there are any reports related to child protection cases. The bill for Child Protective Court provides a specific guide for integrating child protection services and an integrated service one of the resources that can be decided without parental consent. If the consequences of a parent or a child's failure to accept integrating services fail to reach the degree mentioned in the child protection laws, child - welfare services will not be involved in the child's case and will test other sources of law to cooperate with my providers. They are consistent with technical solutions. The bill expects a family and children's room to run databases and digital solutions and that the whole process of identity data within that database. The majority of the items included in the Peritoneal Guideline and believe that such databases will be accessed and that there will be an effective monitoring of information in the database. Since the information being provided on the basis of the bill is that the main policy for sensitive person information on an unsanctioned individual, the majority of the object strongly stresses the certainty of safety and the completeness of personal information. Based on information provided by the Committee, a paediatric database has been developed and hopes are set up to develop an integrated database on the same basis. However, this database is likely not to be ready when the law takes effect. For the Committee there were indications from Peritoneal Protection on the importance of making it clear that registration, communication and other activities of personal information will be conducted on the basis of the rules of the bill only in a common information system or database under the supervision of a children's and family room. In view of Peritone's protection, it is unacceptable that such practices will start before it has been ensured that the safety of the information is in accordance with the law of No. 90/2018. If the above-mentioned identity information cannot be guaranteed, personality protection is necessary to postpone the implementation of the law. Because of the above Persian observations, more part of the previous position on the importance of security during the processing of personality information, although digital solutions will not be ready for the implementation of the law. No personal information will be supplied with a world that is not compatible with law No. 90/2018, though the regulations of the bill take effect before database and digital solutions become reality. Therefore, the content of personal information under the guidelines of the bill will only be realized to the extent of the security of the implementation of personal information allowed. The majority point out that the first three years after taking effect are defined as an induction period, as per the introduction section below. So the more part doesn't feel the need to delay the entry of the law, so it has information that all infrastructure is ready for next year's induction process. The committee received reviews of other aspects of the bill, providing permission for the processing of personal information, including that such information can be obtained through those who render public service in behalf of successful children. The majority point out that according to the bill, more responsibilities are given to those who render public service for success, i.e. that they are endeavoring to observe the well - being and well - being of a child, as mentioned in paragraph 14. The bill. The terms of the bill show that these parties do not participate in integration unless there is a parent and/or child's request. It is expected that the quality of the personality data provided by those who provide general services for successful children will be clearly distinguished from the other activities of these partners. Personal information is then expected to be deleted as no longer coverable. In view of the greater part, this process of processing is clear and moderate and is intended to achieve the objective of the bill. provisional arrangements suggest that a minister be responsible for taking appropriate measures to prepare and support the implementation of the law. The reviews and reviews of the Committee gave the opinion that it was important for a special control group to arrive at the induction site, with many regulations and a great deal of views being accepted as needed. The majority of the reports show that the Ministry of Social Affairs has done a lot of work that will be useful in its introduction. Then the Ministry has informed the committee that if the bill becomes a law law, it is intending to employ at least one employee who will work only on the implementation of the law. The majority consider it proper to use the work and the groups that are already working to keep their arms around the project, i.e. A member of the Board of Directors on the issues of children and members of Congress on the affairs of children. In order to further support the induction project, it is important that a formal staff group be appointed from a series of providers and service candidates, children and parents. To ensure the necessary access of rural society to the implementation of the law at all levels, a greater part is necessary to make a special contact for each local community during the induction period, as well as the operating of cross-cutting regional integration groups. The majority of it feels that as much law as in this matter needs more time than is usual for induction. The majority suggest that the measures prescribed will be fully introduced after five years from the entry of the law. However, re-evaluation will be performed after three years whether the need to prolong or after an event is required to shorten the previously proposed period of induction. The majority stress that the Management Board's Management Board on matters of children and others involved in the implementation of regulations on the grounds of the law works swiftly and safely on the basis of regulations. It is important to ensure forethought in the implementation of the law and to ensure that rural and other sources directed by the Regulation will be allowed to adapt their work. That brings me to the Commission's adjustment proposal. The majority of them feel that the need for temporary improvement is needed when valid values for a minister can start preparing the introductions of the law as soon as possible. So the majority contributes to a change in the value law 26 gr. the contents. The more part feels the need to make several adjustments to the technical bill and therefore do not depend on the components of the bill, thus requiring no further explanation, including to maintain harmonization between tracks. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the committee opinion and that I have already introduced it. Under this heading, write why. Councilmen Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason. I have completed my review of the committee opinion, and I especially rejoice that we are now at this milestone before we complete the council to take these matters and finish those that have been employed for some time and are very important. We have had many visitors, as was previously said at the conclusion of the matter. What a joy it is to have a positive and optimistic attitude toward this arrangement, both within organized rural and service employers and others involved in it! Of course, there are always some indications and other such subjects that have been discussed. I particularly enjoyed getting an economist for the committee, which showed how much money this project is in the long term because after ten years, when it comes to a full - time job and starts working as it should, we're talking about a lot of progress for children. Now, when children are on the move today, perhaps they're already in full control and they're starting to scrunk in all the systems we're talking about making children, inside the community system of the local society, the shoes, bringing in the stronger adults. It's very important. So, what we're talking about here today is not that big of a stone, and in the induction process, something is going to work with us and that's why we're giving three and even five years. If at this time it becomes evident that it may be shortened or extended, then it can be handled. You see, that's what makes it most important to me because it's a delicate group. The world is always changing, too. We can only talk about this time we've been living in the last 20 months. We must be ever on guard, always revising, and always afraid to make the changes that are important to this group. Especially do I rejoice that we have succeeded at the time this has taken, this ideal period, to reach this conclusion. There was this transnational group that discussed these changes and proposals, and we were so lucky, perhaps no coincidence, that they were five from this committee on the welfare committee. I believe the work of these matters on the Committee was good and practical, and people were well prepared for this matter, and I would like to thank the Committee in particular for this payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u35	President. I just wanted to ask about the bill's report. In the chapter Effects on Personal Protection, it says, with permission of the president: The effects on personal protection first revealed risks that will follow if the bill is corrected before the work of digital solutions for the processing of information under the bill. Before a common digital solution becomes reality, the information will be in different shapes. There is a risk to this end that persons who earn personal information on the basis of the source of the bill will use different document systems, conflicting methods for accessing information, and different criteria for access controls on these systems. It is clear that the first day of safety, i.e., must be guaranteed. from the entry of the law: ▪ Is in that relationship even to consider the processing of personal information, which in many cases may be considered very sensitive, as well as relevant to children, but the personal information of the children will be given special protection according to the rules of the law of No. 90/2018 and Regulation (EU) 2016/6779... In this connection, Peritoneal protection points to the importance of ensuring that the adjustment time to force the law's taking effect is sufficient so that adequate space is available to provide safe digital solutions to the execution, which I understand are being done to some extent. However, it is very clear that they propose to postpone the implementation of the law in order to give more time because it is clear that this database will not be ready. This is shown in the review of Peritoneal protection, and they recommend that we postpone the execution of the law. I would like to ask, " Why can't you meet the challenge of delaying the execution of the law for four or five months to ensure the safety of these delicate personal information on children, as Pernon protection is to be noted? ' [[The president calls.]] What is the real reason why we are so urgent that we are not ready to postpone this for four months to respond to the Persian protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen for the counter-reception. Hv. A senator claims that this system will not be ready by the law of January 1. I don't think there's anything to tell you that it's not going to be ready. It has been reported that once this system has been issued, it has not been shown that it cannot be ready. It is then said that this need to be postponed for four months. I don't think there's any reason to put this off for a few months just to make sure the systems are ready. The laws are clear, the protection laws are clear, and through this work it was such as It has always been guided by the fact that only sensitive personal information would go by consultation with children or their families. A system that is already being worked on far and wide around the country now meets the Personal Protection Act, and I can't imagine that something will fall from that standard. We agree that this will be guaranteed at all levels. But to postpone the case - am I also asking back, " Are we going to take responsibility for children who fall between ships and docks at that time? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u37	President. The meetings of the Committee and Peritoneal Protection have expressed their concern about this and are quite clear that the database will not be ready, that these necessary digital solutions will not be ready for this time. Therefore, the importance of ensuring that sufficient time will be allowed to win this database before the law takes effect. It is impossible to ensure the safety of these delicate data and personal information in paediatric patients. But what I'm asking for is, these four months - if we're talking about needing extra time to make sure that the database is ready before the law takes effect, why aren't we here to meet that? These are only a few months to weigh the importance of we're actually ensuring the safety of these data. [[The president calls.]] If the database is not ready for this brief period, which I hear major experts tell us is likely not to happen, why don't we listen to the expert's warning? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u38	A respectable president. I'm wondering if I'm not late enough to mention that we talked about calling the matter in between the 2nd and 3rd. and get a guest from the Department of Social Affairs who would better discuss these matters. I don't think I'm late to talk about it. We're not more sure that the system will be ready if we take force. There's a lot of things that can happen, and it's changed a lot for us. There's been a lot of things and many cases have been delayed, and we're not more sure that this will be ready for June 1. But we just say, "Let's let the law take effect on January 1. " Then it will be possible to react in the fall if things go wrong about it. But let us also think of the children who would then be free of air from January 1 to June 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u39	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the presentation of a committee party more than that. This is a good thing, but there are dangers in the matter, as the majority suggest that it be approved. I just want to discuss it with the protection show, which is extremely important. These are basic rights for children and families. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, in this case, says the Personal Protection Act is clear. Yes, the physical protection law is a universal law involving personal protection. This bill on integration, which contains special laws, provides detailed guidance on what to do, that, when an integration request is made, information on the status of your child is provided for your child's contacts, service providers, and those who provide general services for the benefit of a child in the implementation of tasks in Article 15. and chapter 5. The process of personal information includes the following: ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's in the law that you suggest take effect at the end of the year. It is the law of the Supreme Protection Act because it explains the law. If we look e.g. In this explanation, the 14th figure of 2 gr. Talk about a service employer and they say, by permission of the President: To service employers, e.g. Schools, elementary schools, vacation homes, social centers, high school, health care, special health care, police, social services, and child care. In other words, everyone involved in the affairs of children. And now, the more part is going to allow all these people to distribute, share, and work personal information about children in sensitive positions, their families, their health information, and the information on the criminal behavior of children and families without having it in a clearly defined database. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator to see if he's got it figured out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u40	A respectable president. As I told you earlier when I introduced the committee's opinion, it has been made clear in this work that no information is available between parties, servants, unless children or their families agree or ask for it. It showed up in answer to what. A senator said that we were distributing sensitive personal information just like a lubricant about everything. It's not really like that. Each group can ask for data, elementary school, nursery, etc. When a child is in high school, it's the school that asks for data, or social services, even child protection or some person; contacts and advocates. It's not anybody, it's not a general person who gets these data just by asking for it. There needs to be a reason for that. We cannot bind the identity information completely to any database. We cannot rely on one technical solution in this regard. So is it. In terms of personal protection, the Homological Protection Act is in preschool and elementary school, and it is also natural in this code, as the committee shows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u41	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now it is also so in this case that if a child - welfare agency or example view integration as necessary for the child's interests, despite the lack of parental consent, the institution may decide, a decision is to be made as in other matters. So it is not true that services cannot be performed directly across the systems if parents do not approve. It can be given. Not all parents who agree may realize the extent of this source and that the system around it assumes the utmost caution in handling these data. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'll ask why. A member of Parliament: Why do the majority not listen to experts in this matter, such as others, such as the U.S.A. cervical screening issues that advise the greater part to delay validation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u42	The president has to reiterate. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I hope so much that parents and children, families, realize how important the integration of these systems makes it possible to be for all children's services. I don't think there's going to be any personal information about children, even about the health of family or parents or anything else, that they're going on. As we're thinking, the majority of it doesn't feel the need to delay the hearing of the law, but it has information that all infrastructure is ready for next year's induction. I think it's a misunderstanding and I'm afraid of it. But I ask, what will happen to the children who wait there for the month, just to the next year, until the law takes effect? We're all ready, and we're not going to give any discounts on the Personal Protection Act in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of history. I was going to enter the protection policy, but two fine senators have entered them before me, so I'm going to go over to the rest of the show. Of course, for such induction to succeed, it is necessary that projects be financed. Without it, there is little hope for success, and there can be no honest person who would be opposed to the purpose of the law. But that may still be the answer to that question: Would it not be possible to reach many of these goals within the current code of law? Let us, though, leave it to each other. In a paper with the bill, on page 18. 20, says by permission of the president: Invented by induction in 2021, a financial bill is financed in 2021 And here is the point: the second measure has not been expected for expenses that result from the agreed bill in a financial programme. I put my eyes into it and became a bit of a laugh, so I'll say it right now. At that time, I considered the greater part of the welfare committee, and the cost of the matter is not taken lightly, as shown on page 20. 19 In the report. Therefore, the evaluation's standard is that the additional budget for the state funds due to the overall change could be studied between 1,360 and 1,802 million. K. Each year during the first few years after the office of the law, as well as its induction costs - which, of course, constitutes a capitalist's release. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: In other respects, what is meant by the failure of expenses resulting from the agreed bill in a financial program? We've just agreed to a financial program, it's only been a few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u45	A respectable president. As I learned in my case earlier when I was reviewing the committee, the case has been adjourned with the communities and with the services and institutions involved in this integration. Also, we received an economist who reviewed the case and thought that once this was calculated, this would be a temporary cost, during induction and change, and so on. However, as soon as this project, this integration, these changes, a pair at the Cheflavour Airport, and Kálegan's operations, would be used to exploit this project. This is not stated in these data, but it was mentioned in the Committee. Hv. A senator is not a member of the committee, and I have a clear understanding that he is asking about these matters. I'm just assuming it'll be in the next budget. As mentioned, the next budget is expected, not in a financial programme. I don't necessarily have an explanation. However, it has been observed in this work that this is being done in a large way with the communities. I suppose this will always cost something like all changes to such a large system. But there's a lot more to go back than I can get, and I'm not worried about the cost or that it's gonna get us over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer from what happened. A pilot. I'm here with the review of a Union member of the United States. The number of costs is now covered in 12 different locations. On page 18. 4 of the review says exactly, with the permission of a president: ▪ In the assessment of the relationship, 27 c. The bill is very vague and unsure whether it meets the criteria of 2 mg. 78th par. the constitution of the legislation on the legalisation of rural income and their clarity where it will be fully implemented in Regulation. I have to say, I have to say something surprising that nothing in this situation has ever been too close. The report shows that the induction process will not be completed until 2024. It's three years, 2022, 2023 and 2024, completely unfashionable, and we've just approved a financial program for this period. Without me compromising the objective of this case, it seems to me that there's something showy about it. [[The president calls.]] It is amazing, given the fact that these comments have been made in the reviews, that this is not the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that there is nothing in the financial programme of the greater part of the budget for financing on these systems. But it's been working on a great deal of intensive cooperation with rural society. So far, the rural communities are very much forward, and many of them are working on this system. It came, for example. led by representatives of Hafnarfjög and Kópavogs, that they're working on it, and they think it's going to be a law long ago. I just hope that's all. A senator is not suggesting that we postpone this good bill. Many rural communities have already begun to prepare for this dramatic change and all call for legalization as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u48	Madam President. I'm here recommending the opinion of a smaller part of the welfare committee on this bill to correct the integration of services to the benefit of children, under which it is the one listed here, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Aarnadótir. A member of the Central Party, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, why. Senator Flock the people, Halldóra Mogensen, why. Senator Pirata, what? A member of the reverend, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the committee, agrees with the opinion. The smaller section supports the fundamental changes proposed in the primary priorities currently being discussed at the World Council for the welfare of children. The great work and consultation that took place during the election season was exemplary, and it was discussed by the members of the Department of Health, which could have been discussed with the members of the Parliament and the Ministry for stakeholders and countless employees of the children and families throughout the country. Such consultations in matters of great importance to promote the cooperation of those doing the work should be permanent so that the outcome will be as best chosen. A bill for integrating services to the benefit of children is a large matter designed to be tolerated in behalf of children. The basic adjustments can be found in the ministry and in the publications it contains regarding the ministry. After the investigation of the matter, the commission received a number of references and memos, which included a number of guests with very helpful tips. In accordance with the nature of the case, the lesser part is very important to give special attention to the Children's Protection Agency and Peritoneal Protection and to the smaller portion to cut away from the important indications that came from these key sources. The smaller part seems to take the larger part at high risk, and there is a trend towards the development of the personal information that is expected to be involved in the debates of the 71nd chapter. The constitution and 8th par. European Convention on Sanity, Home, and Family This will provide special protection for children in accordance with legal requirements on personal protection and the processing of the personal information and the regulations of the EU. Is it so important not to compromise with basic human rights? The smaller part is understood to be that because of the rapidness of the majority in the final meters of the case and its implementation, despite these important indications, users of the service, all children and parents in the country, will distrust the progress issues presented here and may result in permanent damages that will be difficult to repair. I can't let go of what we talked about earlier today. Because those words came into question. The author of the case, Höðar Halla Signý, Kristjánsdóttir that it would be all right, and hopefully the induction would be successful, and that it might be possible to submerged, despite a two-year lead-in period, can't be overlooked as a result of the removal of the cancer samples from the Cancer Society to the various institutions of the country and outside and how they have been for months, despite a two-year lead-in period, to be described as a measure of health concern to women and the government refuse to answer. Then you wonder: " Will we take risks in a similar way in this matter, just letting things go without listening to warnings? Will the government do it again? These are so important to experts; Peritoneal protection and child protection clinics. I'd like to highly recommend that most of the parts listen to experts. Back to the committee. According to the Federal Protection Center, comment was made on extensive information process involving the bill and reported doubts as to whether this process harmonizes with the principles of 71. g. The constitution and 8th par. European Convention on Sanity, Home, and Family It would be clear to the Persian Protection that the right to exercise the right to limit the limits, as shown in Article 3. 71. g. constitutions and 2 mg. Section 8. The Convention of Human Rights. Then the Lawgiver would be obliged to ensure the protection and care required for children, as per Article 3. 76. g. Constitutions. However, it was noted in the review of Peritoneal Protection that restrictions on privacy, home, and family, including the security of children's interests, must be made sacred by urgent necessity. It also discussed whether such extensive development of personal information would be necessary to achieve the objective of the bill and how it harmonized with the mediocrity. In view of the wide variety of people, as spoken in paragraph 14, they can take on the role of a service provider. 2. g. as well as the scope and sensitivity of information, the smaller item suggests changes in the bill to be accurately defined which providers are authorized to process personal information and which services are allowed for registration and media access. Adds the memory item to the 2nd sentence of Article 3. Section 8. so that, instead of the words "superfiners" and those giving general services for the benefit of a successful child, you and your child's advocate will arrive. That they can only do such extensive work with this information, because it is the two parties closest to the child. It is discussed in a review and a Persian protection memo that although there is general evidence that contacts are in the daily environment of a child, the arrangement may, in some cases, involve discomfort to the child or to his parents, regardless of whether there is any personal inadequacy in the contact. For example, a contact might be related to a child or to a parent from an earlier age or to a high school kid who has to be exposed to some sensitive information from a certain high school teacher. Could such things do to a child or a youth badly. There must be resources for the child or parent in order to find a way to replace the contact. The memory section agrees with the importance that in such exceptional circumstances it is possible to request that a contact be moved so as not to be a problem in the process of a situation. It is presented as a modification of the requested provision so that, in exceptional circumstances, a switch to a contact can be requested. The minority feels it is important that the development, provision and registration of personal information on the basis of the bill will be permitted only in a common information system or in a database recommended by a family and children's room, as Perone Protection recommends. Within the Persian protection assessment, a minority will agree that this is a requirement to reduce the risk that undeniably lies in it if the personal information provided is preserved by a number of people who even have conflicting databases to store so delicate data. Personal protection points out that the sense of security in these individuals may vary, as well as their circumstances, when it comes to ensuring the security of personal information in their possession. So the smaller portion suggests 23rd floors. the addition of the laws of the above mentioned. In terms of force-separation, the smaller part under Peritoneal and Child Welfare tip takes place that security in the processing and sharing of important data is ensured from the first day when the law takes effect as a result of the processing of personal information, which in many cases may be considered very sensitive, as well as for children, but as previously indicated, children's personal information will be protected by the law on personal protection and the implementation of personal information and EU regulations, the large personal protection principle. Persian protection special attention to this key point in a memo sent by the Agency to a welfare committee at the end of the case. There Persian protection repeated the dangers. It stated that if the bill became a law, it would lead to a much more extensive process of personality information about children and their caregivers than it was already. As you can tell, it's wrong as well. paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir has said here, that it is not allowing further processing of personal information. It's simply wrong because the bill allows a significant increase in the processing of personal information. In view of Peritoneal protection, it is not acceptable to start the process until it has been ensured that the safety of the information is in line with the laws on personal protection and the processing of the identity information and the global protection directives of the EU and that the lower part of the mind is involved in these indications. It shows in a Persian protection memo that it is unacceptable to include the requirements for security in the processing of the previously stated personal information if their progress begins before safe digital solutions will be ready or other measures taken. A child protection agency believes that based on the extent of the improvement of personal information contained by the bill, it is unfortunate if digital solutions to the management of such data may not be ready before the law takes effect. A damage that is expected to occur in such an extensive processing process will simply not be undone. If information is started somewhere where it should not be, it will not be undone. Therefore, the smaller item is deemed irresponsible if the General doesn't do everything in its power to ensure that the database to be used will be fully developed and useful when processing starts. If above mentioned, there is no guarantee that there will be a delay in the execution of the law and that the lesser part will agree with it. Therefore, the lesser part suggests that the entry of the law will be postponed until June 1, 2022, since a necessary database will not be completed on January 1, 2022, nor will its induction be completed. Export data is just ready, and the first ad will start with a term called after two tubes to assess the scope of this project. It's happening now. The review of the Children's Protection Agency says that the number of standards and costs of new projects for the Children's Family and Children's Office are very carefully planned according to the number of projects assigned to the Agency. In the bill panels, experts with diverse backgrounds are expected to have a high level of 1,5520 and an estimated cost due to this 250 billion. K. every year. Children's Protection Agency conducted a cost assessment on the request of the Department of Social Services for increased projects related to the integration of services to the benefit of children and family care bill. Because these two bills are also discussed here. As a result of the assessment of the Children's Health Organization that requires an increase of 36 and annual costs, it is estimated at 534 billion. K. The design of the Children's Protection Agency suggests a difference between the billing and the calculation of the living room, which is in force in 163/421 status. The difference seems to be largely in that the bill is not expected to increase the status values in support and management, as the Agency assumes in its calculations. In the two primary projections, the status values are estimated to increase by up to 20 with new tasks. It is not realistic to believe that the 15◯20 standards expected to be added to the Agency in the bill will be all devoted direct services to children. The smaller part is important to provide this case as well as a family and bill to explain the high number of standards missing to ensure that the services of the Agency are satisfactory. Madam President. The minority wants to settle their concerns over indifference and disrespect for the more part of their comments about the speakers and smaller parts. After the mass work of a Senate committee on the issues of children during the past few years, as well as the declarations of the jury itself, the highest level. Children's Minister of Childhood, of the importance of cooperation and cross - political reconciliation, was completed by this important work in that the three prime messages discussed here were taken from the committee in conflict and regardless of important points received by the Committee from professionals, and regardless of indications from other committees, even members of the Council Committee throughout the past. The author of the case. V.E.G. The importance of having as large a matter as this should be given careful plagiarism and note cases of changes in the activities of the council. Sadly, the smaller portion of it is to ignore such a take-off, and it will be taken care of without adequate discussion. In addition, it was in spite of the simple desire of the memory of the object that wanted to present its indications and despite the fact that enough time would provide for the development of a opinion before the end of the council, with many days from which things were worked out. The welfare committee and until this discussion takes place here, or more, a week. The next day, at a long meeting, this case was offered again, which was rejected by a majority of the welfare committees. Thus, following a transnational cooperation throughout the ideal period - the entire ideal period - a reaction to the labor response of the majority of the cohesion took place. the welfare committee at the end of the procedure, the explosion of the good cooperation and solidarity in this matter. Counts the smaller part of it very sad, and certainly not to build confidence in politics. Because of the way it was going to happen, I pray that this case be addressed between the 2nd and 3rd. I think it's necessary, and I hope that the more part has the good fortune to allow normal discussions on the committee to be 2nd. Finally, we will be able to adapt and make the necessary changes to take place in this matter. In view of the above, the lesser part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes detailed in the Committee's Committee from the lesser part of the social committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u49	A respectable president. Well, I'm kind of thinking about this tour from the ocean. A senator and an experienced member of this matter will be less important. First, she islittles a prominent authority who she says did not study the matter. I'd like to ask about it. Does she believe that the chairman of the case did not study the case because I wasn't on this Senate committee, as she came to be? And there had been a great deal of preparation. Second, is she minimizing the preparations and comparing them to cases of women's screening and cervical biopsy? What was our visit when they were prepared? Speaking of snatching the matter out of a conflict committee and not being invited to a conversation, I have an e - mail exchange with a chairman, with the whole committee, where I offered a discussion on the subject on Thursday and it was rejected. I had to threaten the program changes, and I had to make plans for the subject to be on the fifth day. There's never been a greater part of the case or the head of the case to discuss it, never. That's what the Chairman knows. I would like to ask the head of the welfare committee to mention an event where I have refused to discuss the matter. Visitors finished March 2nd. We know exactly how the pressure has been on the committee field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u50	The president would like to remind the senators to refer each other with their full name and not make a direct conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u51	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A senator, for the one standing here never said that it would be. Halla Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir would not have studied the matter. Well, then she can check it out...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u52	You said the pilot wasn't...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u53	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u54	The one quoted here did not say that a prominent person was not as good in the matter as anyone else. The one quoted here was merely discussing that many in the smaller section had been members of a governing committee but never spoke of the trouble. A senator would not be familiar with himself or would not have studied the matter as she would like to be here. That's what I'm talking about. A senator denied a discussion about the matter, so after the members of the committee studied the matter, the matter was under discussion. Hv. In the evening of Thursday, a member of the committee placed an committee's party and a meeting on the welfare committee was on Friday morning. It's a big deal and a lot of stuff. A senator had earlier said that it would not be achieved, so it appears that they were sitting on Friday morning with members of the committee and that they had not been able to study the committee's opinion, so at that point they were unable to begin a discussion on the subject. That's why the next meeting of the Committee on Tuesday spoke of a discussion on the subject. Such discussions, however, did not run out, and those sitting on each side can. The Witnesses'well - being committee was booked in the lesser part that it had not been a professional one. The one here had many suggestions that she wished for, prayed. The following day, too, where the committee was meeting on Wednesday morning but on Wednesday morning, a sincere member of the congregation was to allow the discussion to take place. A senator refused. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u55	A respectable president. We may be having some shutters, but that's how the conversation was. On Thursday, I offered this discussion. I hit a dog. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vala Vógvóvóða Helgavóðvóttir in the halls asked for this discussion and told her that the committee's opinion would not be ready because I thought the committee was prepared to discuss the matter without the committee's opinion. It is often recommended that we discuss the matter despite the fact that the committee is not available. It was my wish. I've always had a big deal in the matters I've had that all the committees have time to talk about, but that was the case. I hope we all have, both of us, the last terms of the case, like the season. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, and other fine senators who have come up with good tips - there are not many changes in the minority, so I trust that this is the best and hope that everyone will be okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u56	Since we have begun to quote two men'speech, it is proper to mention that on the proposed Thursday, here on the council's tunnel, a request was made. A senator after discussing the following day would focus on another matter involving a place of property. A senator was also a prominent speaker, since the committee's literature on the subject would not be ready for Friday. [[Up front.]] It was also confirmed on the committee stage. However, they came to the end of the evening so that it could be served. I hope the greater part breaks the point of its mania and allows experts to enjoy the doubt now. That was not done when the cervical samples were moving, and that was what I was talking about. There's no database ready and it won't be ready. It is now starting with some kind of analysis, the director of the health care programme yesterday, an analysis of needs, and what needs to be included in such a database. It's what I'm talking about here, that hopefully the government parties are breaking the point of their mania, listening in this language to experts, every law's taking effect for a few months. It doesn't matter, but it can have a fundamental and significant impact on public trust in this matter. I think this government should learn from the scandalous pattern she is in, in the middle of the few, about another database and another move, and another basic change in service to the citizens of the country, and now listen to experts in the case such as Peritoneal Protection and Child Welfare, who know the category out and down, working in it every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u57	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to fix the integration of services for the benefit of children, great business, and best. So it is a little sad and kind of sad that we should be discussing this matter, after taking it on a welfare committee, in the process in which it has come; that we should have two committees of committees, that we should not have given ourselves a little more time to make a wide deal of peace about it. Problems that concern children, and especially their success, should not be direct in any way. There should be a clean, understanding teamwork that we try in every way we can to make the matter right. One of the things we asked for on a welfare committee was that we would have a little more time to go through this matter, and I'm going to point out why it was needed. If we just take the business and the reviews that came in, we're like... with list of 23 reviews from the ADHD Association, Akureyri Town, Children's Department, Social Services, Social Affairs, Iceland Social Advisoralists, Social Advisor Society of Iceland, Hafnarfjörður Town, Júlíusson, National Association of the Development of the Deaf and the Deaf, Lúðvíkur's Lukina Coalition, Micro-Promissist, Perconnaisionistation and Percongence Association also has a memory sheet - Reykjavíkurburg, the Union of Icelandic Company, the National Association of the Deaf and Deaf, the Santa, the Council of the Western Institutes, Children's Office, the Children's Office, the Children's Office, the Children's Specialistage of the United States and Development of the United States. This shows how many companies there were. I was going through this mission, and we're probably talking about 70, 80, or 90 pages. And why on earth am I concerned, and why am I most concerned about this matter? I'm gonna start talking about it here, and that's the personal protection. And why on earth do I worry so much about personal protection? This is because there are extremely delicate information about both children and their families. I know from my own experience that one of the worst challenges is to see in some kind of document, even public document, even a document that has been asked through courts, that has been illegally taken into the medical records, and that the person's information is not capable of knowing whether it's right or wrong to go to research. Subjects who work e.g. For insurance companies, they can abuse their facilities so that they can access the medical records or other person information and can take them without asking permission, without letting them know it, without giving the person any opportunity in one way or another to respond to what is presented there. This shows how incredibly far some are ready to walk. Another factor that alerts a warning when it comes to personal protection is the amazing fact that the courts of the country do not follow the protection laws of their identity. The courts are hit because the courts of the country's courts publish very detailed personal information and even directly from the patient file, directly from sensitive medical records, and even directly attributable to the relevant information. And we're going to set up a system for children without having made sure once and for all that the personal protection is completely bulletproof. That's exactly what we have to figure out, and take an absolute guess here, so to speak, there's no doubt about it. It is also what Persian protection is asking us to do, to ensure that personal protection will be fundamental to one, two, and three before this system must be stirred. By that, I would say, at least, trying to build this case on a rock instead of on sand, let alone quicksand. It could cause untold damage if the personal information that is under control gets to the wrong hands. We prayed that Persian protection would be given several months or years to complete this database which is needed to ensure that the personal protection will be safe. It's okay. There is just a time when we can make use of what we have to do before this system starts, and that's what we're gonna do, wait for the children to be served. It would be great if this system, when it gets online, made sure that there would be no more waiting for a waiting list. The system had become so bad that for the real wait list, the real wait list was not made too long. We know that people wait for the necessary services, not for a month, not for a year, but for even two or three years, and that is tragic. The bill says that children should be cared for up to 18 years of age, and we know that a waiting child aged 17 to 18 might fall off the waiting list because it has grown up because it takes two to three years to get the ministry. So it's not that simple, as mentioned here, and there's no need to be so hasty about getting the matter out of a welfare committee, hopefully we'll learn from it. It's a week, I think, since the case was taken out so that we could have quite given ourselves much more time to do something about it. There are some things that need to be handled and have been pointed out, e.g. From exercise aid, the Department of Development, and the Communication Center for Deaf and Deaf Hearing Impulsion. There are some issues that need to be resolved. We know what the situation is with speech pathologists on the waiting list, and we also know that a certain group is in a position to need interpreters, and so are children who need special service because of hearing impairment. Of course, it must have been integrated and fully ensured that these individuals have the right to protect themselves and understand exactly what is happening. I'm afraid that's a bit of a problem here with us. Sadly, though, we are a little back on the Union in various matters, and Iceland's Generous Community emphasizes the importance of seeing the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinctive People, in which the rights of disabled children are further specified. It is a big issue on its own, and also in the context that to ensure rights of children, the United Nations has to be legally established, so that their rights are completely guaranteed and not related to its having to be guaranteed in the whole process. Then, with the permission of the president, the Quantum also points out: It is important to ensure sufficient funds for proper implementation of this project by a children and family room. I'm not convinced that this has been guaranteed. There's a word to say, with president's permission: ▪ The related experience shows that the time limit will be entered into the bill on how long a supportive team has to implement a supportive plan as well as that a reevaluation of a supportive plan needs to be performed at least every six months [...] it is suggested that such programme be submitted 6 months before 18 years of age and that it is clear what responsibility to follow it afterwards and to ensure appropriate and extended service. Then the Society says that he is looking forward to doing that work to secure the interests of disabled children. Then mature help points out, with permission from the president: We believe that the impact of children and their parents on their own lives is not given sufficient attention. The success of a child is particularly determined by its parents'respect for the child's most important support and by the one with him who has the best perspective on the child's best interests. In addition, parents are trapped in their children's lives all the years of their childhood when professionals, as necessary as they are, come and leave their baby's lives. In this regard, the organization also points out that when custody is divided between disabled children's parents, it is important to ensure that both parents have access to information etc. in service to the child, who is important for both parents to provide the support and training they need, although a child has a legal home with one parent [... children under the rules of caring payment are more than 4000 and likely the majority will fall under a Phase 2 and 3 service, so the project is important. [...] For 14 years, the Center for Guidance has given parents disabled and long - suffering children and, in reality, all the subsequent parents, important support, and help to ensure that their voice is heard as to the needs of their child, taking into account their opinion of how they have been successful in serving it. At the same time, in the name of the parents, a telescope has called a table to all parties who in one way or another have access to the child's well - being. During these years, there have been many important and important experience and knowledge in the art of vision. The concentration of visual haemoglobin is amongst those observed. to freely communicate with all services and all rural areas. Moreover, the knowledge found in a variety of users, parents, and other users' organisations has been readily available to the horizon. Hence, there is reason to make good use of the experience and knowledge there is. This is exactly what we need to take care of, that we are making use of the experience and knowledge of those who have really involved these matters. We know that the Children's Protection Agency also made comments, and that would be a long list of what we should take on and take a real careful look at in this context. As I said in the beginning, it is sad that we had not given ourselves better and more time to do this. What's caused me the most doubts about the case is, as I did earlier in my talk, the models we have in our system and how we haven't dealt with them. What is now the most disturbing of all is the latest information about the creation of a designer. Perhaps some financial problems have been solved in one place. The question is, Is there a designer's problem just because of the way the system has been built up, that the problem of caring has developed because the quality of the waiting list and pressure is so intense on the child and on his parents, and on those who need to serve? It tells itself that the pressures of those who are trying to get a service and have to wait are said to go on a waiting list and then another waiting list, are really incredible. No one will realize that until he finds himself on a waiting list what effect and what the consequences of such an experience may have. This year or more on the waiting list. It's a thing that's going on, and I can't imagine the pressures on a child in that situation, and even on two children like I know from one family, and how it affects them and their family. Then there's the pressure that's put on those who are supposed to be assigned the system and then have to prioritize or say to the person: No, you're not in the right place, you're not to be back for a year or two years. This bill about the successful children and the bills that follow are great, absolutely awesome, but if they're going to work, we'll have to build them on a rock. We can't start building on sand or in quicksand, so we're thinking about doing this, and personal protection will only be ready when it's ready. She should be ready first. We're supposed to take care of all the loose ends in the first place. Then we make sure that things are done. Sadly, though, I fear the most about the time that will take place in this regard that we will have to make sure that we are not talking about a year, not about two years, not three years. I think we're talking between five and ten years, and that's what it's gonna be because other things are just fantasies. Based on what I've seen in the system so far, and the patches that's been put on the wounds, we're not on the way to make miracles. Still, we may be taking one step in the right direction by finishing matters so that they will be fixed in five or ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u58	Mr. President. This is the best case we'll discuss here and my colleagues on the welfare committee I'm serving as an agent have done quite well with the stage. I'm one of the people who's regarded as a part of my welfare committee, and I'm in agreement with it as an emissary officer on the welfare committee. As we have seen, with the representatives of the section that has already been discussed, I agree that the basic changes being proposed for the three primary sites under consideration are very positive. It is also positive that during the term, this cross-cutting committee, the number of professionals involved in the case, the Council of Congress, the Ministry, and the like - it was all exemplary, for which it is as extensive as it is for the broad system changes. So I'm going to use this opportunity and make very clear what has been presented in the case of other senators on welfare committees that are on the minority side, but it's a disappointment that it should not be completely successful in broad consultation and cooperation. I'm not going to be extending the case by talking like my colleagues here about the offenses that are in the personal protection, i.e. in the processing of personal information. It would have had to be better to work, taking more into account very decisive statements or reviews, and even to create the necessary space because we are not on the finish line, we literally stand on the goal line during the season, and then postpone the recording. Such damages are not available, but the benefits would be vast. It's too bad if this gets into our arms and slows them down positive reforms, i.e. if at first it turns out that someone's being handled there. But I trust that, and I think I'm right about calling the case into a committee between 2 and 3. and then we'll have another attempt to cross it. I was interested in the Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who discussed some of the waiting lists. There's a difference between the quality of your life and the quality of your life. There are many improvements in the system that need attention because of the highest. The Minister of Child Affairs has a little conversation about these matters, like we're at zero points, that we're simply putting on the table a very positive and good picture of how we want to behave these things. We know that putting things into practice can be easier if we have an empty sheet of paper, but it can become much more complex when it comes to situations that have been causing problems for years. We know this too when we are discussing our social security system, our disability systems, and the elderly. Most people are willing to get things right, and they see where the offense is, but somehow it's hard to get into the current system and fix it. There is a wide - up problem in the social system regarding service to children and families, and it has been for years. We know that the waiting lists of the health system have rightly been a prime sign of the government since the beginning of the season, but they are more widely available. It may be said that wherever you look, you see a problem with models in your system. We have over 1,000 children on a waiting list for psychological diagnosis or treatment in our welfare system. The waiting list is the longest in the post-operative ministry of Development and Behavior, a waiting list for diagnosis and treatment, which is then essential for the support of the children in the school system. I can't bear to mention here that we at Reunion obtained a bill that became a law with the support of a large part of the General Assembly. The general will has rarely been so clear in a case that is not a government case, there is nothing else to say. It was about putting psychology services into the system so that our public funds, like other important health services, would be absorbed. The objective was to make our spiritual well - being equal to our physical well - being in the medical system and to meet younger and debride younger ones. However, the budget required for this government project is not available, although it could mean a shorter waiting list and a sure life - sustaining service. All right. I guess it takes a different government than this to finish that case. There are many of the requirements for children and the services of the welfare system. We know, and it has been made clear that children have to wait up to three years for an appointment with a speech pathologist and the recent actions of the government have resulted in the prolonged period of waiting. Long - term lists are the result of government action, showing that as many as 900 children are on the waiting list in time. There are hundreds of people waiting a long time to find out that there are physical therapists and children among them. Those adults who are often faced with a host of problems because of pressures. comes from family situations where they are trying to work and live where services can be guaranteed to children who need assistance in the system. The director of a health therapist's community has said that waiting lists are one of the most stressful elements in the medical therapist's work and the pressures involved in knowing that there are hundreds of people waiting. If there is such stress in physical therapists, you can imagine the pressure on the parents of children waiting for service. In addition, the long - term lists are especially long in the country. For example, these are examples of the incomprehensible wait for needed, often for prophylaxis, that is, for many people. It is so remarkable that we know that little is more expensive to the welfare system than people who are left waiting for service. Each day we miss opportunities to meet people's needs. The time on a waiting list, whether for children or for adults, is not coming back, and for children there is an irreversible loss in the school system, both the study and the social aspects. It's about lost opportunities. Then there is the tangible result of the increase in drug costs, the deterioration in mental well - being, and the costs in other parts of the system grow in the same proportion. Everybody's going to lose. It should be one of the greatest government interests of all time to secure these services and eliminate the list of lists. V.E.G. Children's minister has rightly referred to the importance of communication. This is a good attempt to stimulate such a conversation, as far as it goes. In spite of everything, there is a child - care minister here in his camp, with his systems. The next step, though earlier, would be that the Minister used himself for a conversation within the government. If the systems there, under the direction of other ministers, spoke together, we would really be meeting the real interests of the clients of our welfare system. This is a good and positive step in the right direction. However, it is far from solving the deep - seated problem that exists when it comes to serving people. We are still dealing with our systems, not with people, but with them. Is there reason to worry that although this matter goes through which I know it will, with loyal support, only half the story is told? Service must be in place. The waiting for it adds to the problem, with the real cost, the real loss of opportunity. I'm not gonna have this much further. The talks given here have made a great deal of difference. Finally, though, I would like to mention the right children and the needs of children whose home is very supportive and needs support because of physical or mental illness or disability. The rights of these children, like those of the others here being thought of in order to obtain help and help in their local territory, must be assured. These are in most cases children who have asked for the circumstances in which they live, and it is our community to ensure that these children and their parents are allowed to show equality, to ensure that children living in two places or more will receive the support where they are. We thus support these individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for an excellent speech There is a point I took note of, and some mention is in the minority mask. The welfare committee involved in financing certain factors. What I want to ask you is why. To this end, how was the funding of this project discussed, if we view it as a single body, on the committee? It says, with the permission of the President, in the team that deals with assessments of impact in the bill's report: Therefore, the evaluation's standard is that the additional budget for the state funds due to the overall change could be studied between 1,360 and 1,802 million. K. Each year for the first years after law-enforcement, as well as induction costs. And this is considering that in 2025, a formal induction period will be completed. Then, the next page, on page. 20 to the same team, with the permission of the president: Invented by induction in 2021, a financial bill is financed in 2021 And then comes the point, with the permission of the president: In other respects, expenses resulting from the approved bill in a financial programme have not been expected. We've just approved a financial program. If it wasn't two days ago, it was the last day before the weekend, if I remember correctly. I was surprised because the Commission's comments have been made about 12 times at the cost of the case, not merely saying that he is in the committee's list of parts of the welfare committee. At what? A senator would explain this for me and the rest of us who are not on the committee, and how were these factors discussed? Of course, without financing, there will be no goals set out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u60	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. I'm looking here for some text from when I had a place to speak at the highest. Education minister on the matter when a financial program was being discussed. But first, I'd like to say that I listened to what I heard. A senator and a storyteller Höllu Signý Kristjánsdóttir, where she began to talk about the anticipated benefits, which was very fun, and I will certainly use that methodology when I discuss the various issues that I think the government might perform even at the cost of money. Because it really is, so there is benefit, and if you count it, you can do a lot in the next few days. But that's another story. I asked the highest. Children's Secretary of Affairs, when we were discussing financial programs at the end of March, whether he was pleased with the funding of this financial agenda, and the answer was: Yes, he would be perfectly satisfied. He then went on to consider the cost of about 1,5◯2 billion. What is about to become part of the financial program and what is involved in rural society is in the balance fund. But I agree with that. A senator in the two and a half months gone by, and we've talked about both money and money and other things, it hasn't been seen anywhere, so I don't quite know where it is exactly. V.E.G. A minister claims that this is completely financed for the next three years. Whether this means taking from some other team or what it looks like. I don't have a better answer than that. This is what came out in its own time. But I agree that we were looking for this during the discussion the other day, and we couldn't find it specifically marked. I don't have a better answer, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is particularly interesting, and I had overlooked that this had been discussed in this particular way, which really makes it even more interesting; to the highest degree. The social Ministry of Ásmundur Einar Daðason - I'm telling me that he read this bill before he submitted it - has written right here in the text of the report, by permission of the president: In other respects, expenses resulting from the approved bill in a financial programme have not been expected. It's probably the same man, chief. A minister who answers to the fact that this is all under control and then writes here in the report that it was not partly explained. The 2024 ensuing period is calculated, and it says that funding is only expected in 2021. Then the year is 2022, 2023, and 2024 unfashionable in this material, and its induction is estimated in the midyear. This is actually how the three - and - a - half - year cycle of these changes has been financed. I think it's incredibly steep at the highest. Minister. Then, as you examine the way the matter was torn out of your mind. Anticipation committees, in opposition to postponing the principles of the matter in order to ensure that, including: that personal protection issues have been developed, this whole thing will be even more odd when all evidence suggests that only six months of the 40 that the induction process is to cover. There was no direct question about this. Senator, this is amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u62	President. Yeah, we're just here to be surprised in a speech chair. That answer was so fresh in my mind that I had, in fact, been shooting over this sentence in the bill. I'm going, with the permission of the president, to read again: There are in the range of 1.5◯2 billion per year that this system change will result in the loss of preparation, database, induction team, and so forth. Then it is divided into both kingdoms and rural areas. What's in the state is in my field of affairs in this bill. What has been added to the rural communities is contained in an equation fund. So the case is completely financed for the next three years. We also have the funds we need in the current year... I think there's a reason we have to look into this at least. If this is true, which I now expect or hope for at least, then this text has to be spoken of in the bill. It just can't stand like this. But I appreciate it. A senator for putting his eyes into this and raising this up because it is unfortunate not to talk and make a sound in this vast and huge interest to many. But I'm gonna let myself stand here and say that I hope that what I've read up here is the right thing and there's some misunderstanding going on in the bill we're going to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u63	President. I'm not going to give a long talk, I'm just going to point it into a speech. The head of the welfare committee, which recommended for the minority of welfare committees in this matter. I signed it, so my viewpoints are very good there. Mostly, I would like to highlight this with my personal protection client, but I am on the Senate Committee that came to work on the case, and the bill is a product of the Committee and Work there. I care so much about these matters. I think it's a very important system adjustment we're going to make and I have high hopes that it will work out as well as it can, so it's going to happen. But I'm sorry, after all the good talk that had been going on and all the cool work that happened, that we couldn't find a better way to finish the matter on a welfare committee. I'm not going to be dramatic, but I was disappointed that there was no time for me to listen to my viewpoint and to respond to comments before the committee was taken out of the way it was done. Somehow, there was no room. And even though it has been about two weeks since the committee was taken out, I don't remember exactly when it was, it's starting to happen right now. So there was plenty of time to settle this matter on a welfare committee before it was scheduled for the council. I'm sort of incomprehensible why I had to finish the matter in this way. It has been reported that the matter has been called back to a committee, which is very good, for I hope at all times that a different rotation can be made to see if the comments of more important professionals and experts in these matters, such as Peronist and Children's Institute, can be met better. So I'll only discuss what is called the assessment of the effects of personal protection, or what we call MIP, I think it is important that in a few cases I have stumbled upon the work of the Committee that assessment of the effect on personal protection is not the way it should be done, neither for the Department of Social Affairs nor for the Ministry of Health, there's nothing better there. Somehow it is forgotten to evaluate the effect on personal protection in the presence of bills. The Council is to win this MUBE before the bills come on, and it's going to blow up again. It matters and explains why we are concerned about this, Mr. President. The bill's report, under the heading on the effects on personal protection, shows that the Ministry of Social Affairs was involved in assessing the effects of personal protection, which is fantastic. Of course, you're supposed to be happy when MIP's finally done. But then the following was revealed, as the report says, by permission of the president: The effects on personal protection first revealed risks that will follow if the bill is corrected before the work of digital solutions for the processing of information under the bill. Before a common digital solution becomes reality, the information will be eliminated in different forms. There is a risk to this end that persons who earn personal information on the basis of the source of the bill will use different document systems, conflicting methods for accessing information, and different criteria for access controls on these systems. At last, there is the work of evaluating the effects of the bill on personal protection. There comes a red flag, which the Ministry itself explains in the report but still decides to ignore, which is amazing. The report continues, with the permission of the president: ▪ The evaluation's standard was that the risks of analysing personal information were not too high compared to the benefits of integrated services for successful children. [...] The work of personal information resulting from the bill is essential to achieving early goals of support and integration. Therefore, it has to be concluded that the primary objective of the bill generally outweighs the potential influence it has on individual protection. President. These two are being placed up against each other, as though they cannot be done; they also provide security for the data and integrated service. It is said that the other way outweighs the other. I find this to be an incredibly disrespectful act of protection. I also feel that the importance of the personal protection law is understood to be at last made this assessment of the effects of personal protection, but it is ignored. Personal protection is given a review of this case, and it says, with the permission of a president: It is essential that the safety is guaranteed from day one, i.e. ... fromtheinstitution of the law. Among other things, it is to consider the processing of personal information, which in many cases may be considered very sensitive, as well as relevant to children, but the information provided by children under the legal requirements of the law of No. 90/2018 and Regulation (EU) 2016/6779. [...] In this context, Personal Protection wants to highlight the importance of ensuring that the adjustment time to the validation of the law will be sufficient to allow adequate room for a reliable digital solution to be implemented. The majority clearly states in his opinion that he does not feel the need to delay the execution of the law. But what I don't understand and have yet to answer is the danger of delaying the implementation of the law in order to ensure the safety of the data. The objective of the bill is extremely important, i.e. To integrate this service in the interests of successful children. This doesn't have to be either, or we can do both. We're just talking about making sure that the database is ready before the law takes effect to ensure the safety of the data. We are not talking about going to the important work of integrating the ministry in the interests of successful children. We're talking about delaying validation for several months to make sure the database exists. I find it incredibly irresponsible not to listen to Persian protection. A child - welfare agency agrees with Peritoneal protection, and it also emphasizes this in its review to the Committee. But hopefully we will get an explanation of this and come to some common conclusion on the committee when we take another turn on this matter. What I wanted to talk about too, and it's also been shown to be less than that, is long waiting. I'm also very worried about them as well as the financing, that they're high enough. One of the reasons he spoke about having this parapolitic committee, that it was important that members of all classes participate in this committee, and in this work, to create some sort of solidarity on the subject so that we, the council, could jointly pressure that funding would be sufficient. There was an enormous estimate of benefits, i.e. in the savings that resulted from these large system changes, that despite the high cost of living, the benefits of later savings were greater. I think it's a little new in the way we view the changes in the system that cost money, and I think that we should continue that course in the future when we are considering important system changes, how much they cost, even though they are expensive, what changes will be made to us in the future. We can think about this especially in this overall context, which is the well - being of children, and I missed talking about it in the committee work. It is, in effect, that if we are really thinking about prevention, how we encourage, and how we support children's well - being. It's really important that we watch our system globally, whatever the obstacles there are, all the poverty traps that are present in our improved system, in the social security system, and the damage it causes, i.e. poverty and the effects it has on children. If we are talking about cost - making changes, consider how we impair disability. We have a worldwide record of microindustry, taxing the lowest wage and reform in society all too much, and by maintaining poverty for farmers and underpayers, people on unemployment, who are extremely low in income, but we still tax them. I think it's an amazing approach to tax such a low salary, these people have children of all sorts. If we are serious about ensuring the welfare of children, we must want our system to be adjusted so that we are working to eradicate poverty. Surely we want to get rid of poverty in the community, for it is one of the major causes of harm to children's well - being. It affects all the opportunities of children for the future, so we have to secure this financial safety network and not just turn it away from those with impairment and excessive taxation. And especially now. I had a word with the highest. Minister of Social Affairs this morning that we are pulling the safety net away from unemployed jobs that do not accept any job, regardless of education, experience, interest. Today, a number of people are out - of - work, and the system is getting out of the way that people have little room for activity and an excessive amount of room to choose a career based on their own passion, interest, experience, education. We just expect them to take whatever work they can do, whatever the pay, and all that. We're putting people up against a wall like that. These people also have children. We have to look at the system in general and see how hostile it is to low-payers, to microsurgents, to reformers, and to their children. It is not enough just to make these changes to the child protection laws, which are an amazing step, ignoring the big picture. That was the main thing I wanted to talk about. I wanted to include the majority of welfare committees in this and the rest of the cases, too, because I thought that the schedule for this job was, like the highest level. Social security minister sold it to us when we went to the Committee office, that it was very important that the agreement was on these matters, that it was the basis for us to be successful and to achieve these changes, and to secure the money. That we all work together to do that. That is why I hope that there is room and will be the share of the committee's share of concern, for this is truly a concern. Personal protection has been given to us as the bolder parts of the text. I just don't remember seeing a character protection review with a fat man. I think we should listen to some of the leading experts and professionals in these matters and ask them to help us better understand the personal protection laws and the importance of them and how we can ensure the safety of these delicate information of children in order to create greater solidarity on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Most of the time, I agree with her when she speaks of the importance of meeting poor children. I'd like to ask first if she doesn't believe that by this success project on integrating systems, the situation of children who may be both poor and lacking for the future will be altered, if this will not help. Besides, it's right next to you. A senator evaluating the effects of personal protection on the bill was conducted. It showed that it was safer to win all the data in one database, that's correct. But this does not necessarily mean that other solutions are inadequate. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is convinced that the methods and databases currently provided are insufficient and cannot be trusted until further notice. All digital solutions are always developing, and we can imagine that although some system will be ready on January 1, 2022, it will develop some next year or can fall down, there will be just some system failure and the system will fall down. Is all the cases just stopping, so I'll talk about it in broad context?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u65	President. I appreciate the answer. I agree that all of these cases are incredibly positive and that this work was good. I just don't like how the committee handled the case exactly on the final meters. I would have liked to have this conversation. I just see very clearly that there is a need for the Ministry or Minister to come back. I would like a Persian protection to come back for me to understand this better, for that is why. A senator asks me if other solutions are inadequate, but I have no expertise to appreciate them. All I know from my experience is that we've been ignoring the Personal Protection Act way too much. We haven't been working our case properly with the new personal protection Act, and I suspect there is an incredibly low level of knowledge and understanding of personal protection and personal protection at the head of these councils, the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. That's what I suspect of a shortage of e.g. assessment of the effect on the protection of the Persons, which we're getting to the Committee, by the shock of the initials. I trust Peritoneal protection as an expert and professional in this language class and for the right thought in this matter. I'm sorry that we don't have enough evidence to explain why we don't follow their instructions. That's what I'm worried about. I want to make sure we're doing this right. Of course, digital solutions are always in development, that's just the best, and that's the way it should be. They should continue to be developed. In terms of system failure, I would suggest that we make sure that Perlon protection has access to that work when we develop these solutions, that Persian protection will be allowed to observe and work in order to ensure that all of this is done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen for the answers. I think we can just agree that it's very important that it is clear that personal protection and personal protection will be fully guaranteed. I'm not in the Ministry, but I've already asked these questions before and at work I know that there's a Persian protection on this idea and bill. Then an assessment of the effect of the bill on personal protection was made. I know no better than to continue working very carefully on these matters, to ensure that those matters will be fully in harmony with the promises that have been made. I don't have a question, but I hope, and I agree with a senator, that there will be complete integrity in the processing of personal protection towards all the data that go through there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u67	President. As I said, I am no expert on personal protection or personal protection. But what I see is the fundamental difference. A senator trusts the Ministry while I rely on it and trusts the Persian guardians to know this. If I weigh and weigh the knowledge of the Homological Protection Act against the Federal Protection of the Law, I agree that there is a possibility that Persian protection could be correct. That's what I'm pointing at. That's why I like to take it back into the committee. I suggest that we get a better understanding of what has been misinformed in information sharing and what there is a misunderstanding between the Ministry and the Federal Protection. I think it would be important for us to have a clear understanding of this before we make a decision about the rest of this and the other issues, because the P.O.S. is a red thread through all four basics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u68	Mr. President. There's no small thing we're discussing here today, and it's really good that this one, in fact, the three matters we're going to discuss here are in the chamber and that we want to get ready to finish them right now in spring. There is a considerable amount of work to be done, and members of Congress have covered what has been involved, not just in the Senate committee that was formed, and I and other members of the council have been disbanded. The welfare committee also had a place, perhaps even more important, all the hundreds of people in many parts of the country who were very ambitious and vigorous in putting these matters in the place where they are today. This is actually taking up a whole new thought in serving children. We discussed what we should call the product at the Senate Committee, so we found ourselves in an integrated service for successful children. I think it's a good landing to have it that way. But then these two bills we're going to discuss here later today, i.e. On the one hand, the Children's Institute and the PES bill, and the other, the welfare Agency. I have a full understanding of the concerns that some members of the council have brought here today regarding the fact that we are taking steps that will try to push the way that has served children. In effect, we expect these bills to be approved, and it may be the basic thought of the projections, that different systems begin to communicate on a greater scale. That's extremely important. And we're not talking about some small system. We are talking about systems such as education systems, such as community social services, such as health care and other bodies. It matters so much, that we reach the goal that is the underlying point of all this, to give our community, to give them a gift, without me trying to be sentimental, that our children get as perfect and as good a service as possible and that we make them out in life in the best possible way. This is really the very essence of all this work. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs is worthy of great honor for the labor he has shown in these matters. " But,'you may wonder, " is this not why everyone is going to talk to each other now? ' It's been here repeatedly. - Yes, it may. It's like this, I don't know if I'm supposed to say anything about danger, but, of course, it's when men discuss delicate matters that in some cases, they're going between sensitive information. It just leads on by itself. But the purpose of this sharing of information is so important that in my mind, it becomes totally crippling with the concerns we should have. This does not mean that we are not to respect personal protection, nor should we respect personal protection, certainly not. But I believe it, contrary to the senator who spoke before me, that we can be confident that the systems that work with these matters and those under them will treat the information well. And I also believe that the Ministry will pay close attention to the fact that this is being done and that its institutions will. There's also been a little discussion about the cost. I remember, like a whisk. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson mentioned earlier, to the highest. Indeed, a minister has said that he felt that these assignments were a treasure. I have also heard a minister before, and I have found that these projects were funded. Naturally, the European Union and its rural communities have a measure of concern that there will be an initial cost. This is perfectly normal, and it is simply their job to express concern for us members of the Parliament. I think we'd be surprised if they didn't. But then it is important to remember that the bill or the bill - these are actually four bills, I did not mention the earlier bill for changing child protection - does not alter in itself the cost of switching between these two key elements in the control system, i.e. State and rural society, on the other hand, are actually ensuring that the tasks these parties have for the sake of successful children will be fired in a better and more efficient way than in the day when the law has been given them. That's the goal. Then there is no fighting if we succeed in making sure of it. It has also been mentioned, only today, that there is not enough consultation between the different schemes and the different aspects of the management system. That's the sign again I mentioned in the beginning. But that is exactly what happened when 2018 C.E. About three years ago, five or six cabinet ministers wrote, the highest. Social, health, education, justice, Presidency, Transport and Regional Ministers, as well as the Union of Icelandic rural society, just under the declaration of breaking down walls between these silos. Since then, there has also been a Branch Committee on this very project. I think it matters a lot, and I think those senators at the Children's Hospital at the Hilton Hotel in the fall of 2019, that I am more than in the fall of 2018, where all these key members came together and discussed the matter, saw the importance, that men really talk together and aren't getting hung with the issues each one in his corner. The factors that are important in this bill have been well understood here today, both in the case of the day. paritaprevir The crowning Signý of Kristjánsdóttir, the spokesman of the matter, and the case of other senators, and I'm not going to list it in detail. But I want at the end, Mr. President, first of all those involved in this case in the process of processing, and, as I mentioned at the outset, hundreds of Icelanders have arrived at that point. There is special reason to thank them. I thank all sources, and most of all, I want to thank you. The welfare committee for the job in this case. I'm glad people want to take one extra turn on the case between the 2nd and 3rd. I think it's just brilliant because it's, like, croak. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came in here, somewhat to work to achieve an even better solidarity on the subject. I completely agree with this, and I hope that such a meeting can help us to reach that conclusion. Finally, since a man has come into this gratitude, I'd especially like to thank you. paritaprevir The heart of the Signý's Halla, Signor Kristjánsdóttir, for her hard work and her hard work in all of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u69	A respectable president. We are still discussing a bill on integrating services for the benefit of children. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson: He spoke of so many who had come to this, and there was much solid solidarity in the process of doing all of this. So it's not heartbreaking, then, what happened to a welfare committee, that we haven't given ourselves a little more time? We could've taken more time. I'm gonna back those bills up a hundred percent, that's a great deal. But I'm worried that if we've got a lot of the system down our nose, kids on the waiting list and on the waiting list to get on the waiting list. We need to resolve these issues. How does he see that we accept this matter in this wait list? This is to be true for the next year. Do you want to import the waiting list into this new system or remove the waiting list from the system? Now we're about to build a new system. Experience tells us that as soon as we start building a new system, unexpected solutions will always come and things will be delayed too. People may need help. They need training. So, what will happen to the waiting list? Are they connected? What happened? I'll make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists and I share in part this concern of the senator's, i.e. that if you have this transfer, and if you change your system, there may be some bumps on the situation in the first place. I'm not gonna say it's inevitable, but it might be. But I still think that the preparation that has taken place, both in the past three years and also in the past few months after the matter entered the council, will in a way straighten out the problems that may arise. Of course, the senator would be right to move the waiting list into the new systems, and they will continue their work. Will it delay the matter? I hope not. On the contrary, in time, I hope that the waiting lists will be shortened, and as the senator knows, the thought of this is also because we do not get many cases for the first degree of service, as shown in the bill, exactly because we are integrating it. I hope it's going well. Regarding the senator's speculation about whether we should have done the matter better on a welfare committee, I suppose it could always be said. But I'd like to remind the senator that despite all three months since the last guests came before the committee. Is that enough time? At least there's a lot of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for the answer. Yes, we can agree that this is a major solution. As I said here before, there were some 53 reviews about all these matters. There are tremendous numbers of pages and a lot of material to cover. But there is something else that worries me. A case on the legalization of the United Nations on the affairs of disabled persons was to be discussed in December. In the system, people who are disabled are concerned, they are already becoming suspicious who need to be in a system that is somehow getting out of the way. I am here to mention the concern of the director of the deaf and the hearing - impaired centres of their affairs, and I can also name Developmental Help and the Quantum Community. All these parties point to this important mail in which disabled children are currently in. I ask myself: In order for all these individuals to have the right to give them the right of this system, do we not have to conclude that the United Nations Treaty concerning disabled people is legalized so that their rights are guaranteed to others that they have a clear right to all their concern in these matters and do no doubt about it? You always worry that this group will fall between ships and docks and not get the service they have.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that this organization he referred to, development aid, the communication center of deaf people, and the Microcleric Community are concerned that the United Nations Convention has not been legalized on the rights of disabled persons. However, I would like to reiterate that it has been shown in my conversations, and likely in my conversations. Also, to the representatives of these organizations, a member of the body is concerned about how the clients fare in this new system, they support the fact that we're going this way and starting to integrate. I think it's very important. I agree with the senator that it is important that the contract be legalized, and I voted with that proposal in my time, as it were. I guess a senator did. Now we're working after a council proposal was recently approved for the final translation of the contract, or should we hope so? Then you expect it to be possible to complete the case so that the council arrangement can be completed. But it's true that all of this is very important. But should we wait? No, I don't think so. Still, we're supposed to say it like a dog. A senator rightly said: "It is important that these matters be prepared. " The senator is absolutely correct, and there is nothing more to agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his talk, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur! Hv. A senator is a member of a welfare committee, as we know, her vice president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator like me has asked two other committees in the previous stages regarding the funding of this whole project. I was surprised to learn that in no way, the funding of the Commission show more than in my committee opinion of this matter and in the comments that are specifically presented. Worried about financing the case, there's still a lot of concern. ... ina review of the Union's member of the United States. In particular, I would like to refer to the review of the Children's Protection Agency, which holds the basis for the cost of the sick, and that's when we're taking the financing problem totally aside, which appears to be imminent in view of the wording of the bill. There is a very strong criticism of the programs available at the cost of the case and it goes so far that the review of the Children's Health Organization is thought to be an understatement of more than 100%, just in the case of a new childhood and family projects as promised to these laws approved. When one review and one agency believe that there is more than 100% sludge, you are concerned that it might be more common. But what I want to ask you is why. A candidate on the topic of cost assessment and the funding of the package, however, took place within the Commission because, according to wording as presented in the bill itself, the matter appears to be an inexpensive financial program. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the counter, Bergþór Ólason of Olah and his participation in the discussion here today. The concern that the senator tore is very important, and it was noted in the committee that it is of utmost importance that people are willing to do this work and that it is not just the state but other institutions of the community that are ready for this work. This year's budget is intended for something about 800 million on the project, if I don't miscommitably forget, it's somewhere between 750,800 million. Next year, this will be a financial program prepared for integration in children's services of 1,300 million. Is that enough? I don't have the guts to say, but that's the least I can think of. V.E.G. A minister in inquiry has claimed that, and representatives of the Ministry, as far as I can recall, discussed this point on the committee. Then there was a lot of discussion on the committee that with the approval of the bill, considerable savings would in time become evident in the seminary. But it does not change that as a dog. A senator is saying that we have to take this one, forgive it, the president of the United States, for the cost of it, and assume it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In that sense, I understand why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. First, it is that I have a great grasp of men's beliefs and the hope that the whole system will be saved later. But it just has nothing to do with my concern that the matter is money-free, it has nothing to do with it. Official financial laws do not specifically conclude that such future divorce is considered to be a payoff on the decisions being made today. In view of this, I wondered why. A senator has something to explain to me about what is being presented in the report on the effect, with permission of the president: Therefore, the evaluation's standard is that the additional budget for the state funds due to the overall change could be studied between 1,360 and 1,802 million. K. Each year for the first years after law-enforcement, as well as induction costs. Thereafter, the completion of the induction period is expected in 2024. So says the next page, pp. 20, under this same team in the report, by permission of the president: Invented by induction in 2021, a financial bill is financed in 2021 - That's the exact number. A senator here referred to the budget of the year. In other respects, expenses resulting from the approval of the bill in a financial programme have not been expected. This sentence is so strange that I just have to pray to a dignified man. The vice-forming welfare committee to tell me if he knows the highest level. The welfare minister came along when he wrote this into the bill's report, that this was just not expected. It says here in the text from the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Somewhere it said, "If I had the gift of prophesying, etc. But I don't have it so that I can't answer the senator's question about the one holding a pen when it was written in the report, I dare not recite it. But the other I know is that the cost of success, listed in the report, 1,300,800 million, does not end in the whole state. Part of it strikes the rural population, and part of that cost is funded through an equation fund that will likely be divided in the most frequent ratios, depending on the cost. I think it's important, but it's also important to remind you that we don't know exactly what the cost is or who the savings of these changes may be. Yes, we know how much one value is worth. We know that the costs that will fall at the Children's Institute have arrived, at least In terms of the Ministry it is necessary to recruit employees who need to be added, but it has nothing to do with this bill but with the next bill. All of us have a mission to observe, and it is the Ministry's project to monitor the cost and react. It is, as I understand it, thinking of this for the next year, and it's fine, but then members of Congress and Ministers and the government need to consider that the cost is at hand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u77	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to fix the integration of services for the benefit of children. As it has been observed among all the speakers here, this is the best of speech and the thought and the plans very good, I allow myself to say beautiful. I'm an assistant on the welfare board. Árnadóttir Kolböndóttir, member of the Central Party, is the head of the welfare committee and is not here, so I decided to come up here and discuss this matter. After listening to talks and researching the subject, I struggle to see that the committee is not at all at peace. The comments on this other fine subject have not been brought on the earth, and somehow it is not available to be completed right now. This is just what I read out of what I've been studying right now. Last night I spoke of it in a talk that made us very diligent in getting good ideas. The situation would have begun and would be legal, but when the ship was floated, there would be no money for oil. I think it takes a little bit of this business to make it longer to be rich and to be successful in sailing around the seas. I'd like to quote my committee's opinion. It starts out like all the talks here today: ▪ The single item supports the fundamental changes proposed in the essentials that are being discussed at the World Council for the welfare of children. Then it goes on to say, and then comes the fault: A comment was made in the extensive information processing of the bill and reported doubts as to whether this process harmonizes with the basic rule of 71.g. The constitution and 8th par. European Convention on Sanity, Home, and Family This is where Persian protection makes these strong comments. There are also other comments from them. There is also a review from the European Union, which is very ongoing on this matter, as noted in the talks, but the final words - these are some pages - are still these: ▪ As we have seen, the relationship is the goal of the bill. However, there are still many details about the implementation of projects, funding, it has been much more pronounced in speeches and answers -- and induction, but the key is that active cooperation is achieved across the Ministry and on the administrative level. The relationship focuss on the trust of the rural community and makes extensive confessions in order to organize the new projects as best meets local standards. Similarly, the projects will be guaranteed to meet the necessary funds. In view of the proposed changes in the Union, the relationship supports the approval of the bill as a law by the General. - That's a respect, chief. President. A waiting list has been mentioned in the discussion, and some are now calling this government the long wait list of government. It was observed that about 1,000 children are on hold in the welfare system. Waiting for speech pathologists can take up to three years, and three years is a pretty long time in a child's life; that's a long time in a man's life at my age, let alone a child. It goes on to show that financing in financial planning is not going to be in the future. So I'm just saying, as I said at the beginning of my speech, "A man runs in a blush." In fact, they have requested that the matter be accepted into a panel of discussions, but I don't expect that funding will be guaranteed in a financial programme that has been approved in the future. My concern is that this other fine business - it's a very good thought behind this matter that means that we're going to take care of our children and their well-being - isn't available to sail the way it's done here. When I was sitting in my seat earlier, I thought that it would be only a few months before the election. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs, who then accepted baptism to add that he is a child - care minister, of course, wants this matter to be legal. So I thought, " Could it be that the Minister wants this to be right away because there's an election in the fall, and it will help him in his campaign without, as it has been so far, that this case has been established to the benefit? ' Because I tend to cite a saying from seary, there is a story of a captain on a new ship who was good with him. The ship sailed, there was a ship under sail, it was a long time ago. His crew raced more ships, two or three other ships. When they were in the lead on that cruise, the crew called out: "Captain, it's a good thing to do. We need to bend the cut so we don't land. The captain then realized that if he were to bend for the cut, he wouldn't be the first one on this cruise. So he said, "We're not turning anything." The vessel is new, but the harvest is ancient, so it must be given in hand. This came to my mind when I became aware of the highest. The Minister of Child Affairs needs to get this case through so that he can succeed in the election in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating that these matters have arrived at the council. What a joy it has been to share in the cross - laity work that has taken place on these issues during this season! They have to say, as it is, that all those who came into this matter deserve to be thanked. V.E.G. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur Daðason, set the case up. He called in all those who could possibly handle matters and appointed a parapolitan committee. I am appointed to that committee, and I have the joy of working with them on this assignment. It was good for the group that we won the case with all concerned partners and made an effort to get the viewpoint of most people. We send out more than 600 letters with a request for cooperation, to get tips and to enable people to get the best results in the big, complex but important matters of child care. Children's issues are one of the most important things to deal with in this society, to provide children with a healthy environment. So it was important to get such a large group to cut down the system and review all the challenges in this series of subjects and to think things over again. As I have said many times, the oil ship has to be turned, that's what needs to be done. Now everyone has been united to do so, and for many days it would be possible to talk about the various challenges that are there. Perhaps that is exactly what this work involved, crossing the wide lines, making certain changes so that the journey could be started. In the foundation, it's about what's called early intervention, that everyone responsible for securing the well - being of a child and one cannot take responsibility and point to the next. This may be the basic problem of this category, especially when the communities and the state begin to deal with those who should render service, who should pay. There are these gray areas that are so dangerous in this, and that's the system that needs to get across. We're trying to get close because everyone is responsible for keeping an eye on the child's welfare and should flaunt or report if there's anything wrong. Then you can compare them and respond right away so that you can react and provide family assistance in the first degree, not waiting for the problem to move to the third stage. All the waiting lists in the treatments and the other things that we talked about today and the greatest shortage of options, and we're talking the most about, sort of, in the second or third grade. We are trying to bring all the service down to phase one service in order to reduce the need to a third degree. That's what this project is all about, and everyone has to unite in it. So I've decided to discuss this case a bit large, say that this is the big change that is important to get started, that we are to respond promptly with support for children and families so that in the first degree of service it can be managed and that further treatments or measures can be reduced. I think it's extremely important that this succeeds and that the child's interests are in priority rather than the interests of the system, whether it's the state or the community that's due to pay, what options are available, and so on. I'd especially like to emphasize that, that's why I'm coming up here, that the family needs to have freedom of choice in this matter and to take responsibility for their family life, to have responsibility for it. It's the ultimate prerequisite for us to succeed in family and child matters. It is the family who knows what is best for the child, and they need the freedom of choice needed to care for family responsibilities. And what am I talking about there? Today, too much so-called government administration is controlled, and the process depends on whether it is the rural society or the state responsible for it, who should pay and what resources are available to the community and what resources are offered to the government instead of turning this around and using the number of people who are both in state and rural areas, as well as independent health professionals and social services. These people are creating a variety of resources, having ideas, knowing problems, working inside the schools, and elsewhere to shape some resources, and we need to have more access to these options. These options need to be available to families. Now entering the school to gain approval from the teacher about what is wrong with the child, a petition is sent to the social service or school office that needs to have some political analysis - all of this takes a long time and people are referred to a government form that can be in the community or the state, depending on who is to be paid. Instead, the parent himself should be able to make a decision immediately when he or she finds out that he or she has a problem, that he needs support, and the child can just go right in there. I think we're going to reduce the lists I've heard a lot about today, and we know about them. It reduces the time people are waiting for their release, and I think this can greatly reduce the amount of money that all these analyses and all these waiting times and all these specialized resources cost us today. The options parents choose for their children often become much more efficient and more practical for all. This is important. I've been aware of this issue that if it's not a local society or a public agency that can figure it out, it's not available. Although there are people who are offering the option that works, it is not possible because it is not a resource that the local community, this public agency, was providing or creating itself. This is not how we can have it. When this system changes, and we're initiating it, it's very important that we give people freedom and the possibility to bring in the resources and then give the family and parents the freedom to move there. So we can say: Not all families are as equipped to know the options or to seek help. Then the school, social services, or classrooms come in and give advice, counseling, and other things. That's why we also have a database, a common report, and all the information we're talking about in this, to see sooner if there's something that doesn't work out properly. I think it's extremely important. I know only from my police work that what was going on at the police department wasn't necessarily known at the health care department and what was going on at the clinic was not necessarily known at school, etc. As a result, the child's hand could not be interrupted as early as it would have been needed to achieve its success and to reduce the damage to the baby and so that further planning could be made in late stages. Even though we haven't cut every last one of those endings in this class that will be late, it's a big one, I think it's very important to start this road. We have done an enormously important work to unite people in the need for change. It is not often that such an agreement is achieved between institutions, governments, and other parties in the same direction. So we have an enormous opportunity in front of us, but I would like to point out that it is also of enormous importance how these matters will be worked out thereafter. Then again, I want to emphasize that the responsibility to be with the parents, with the family, not in the public institutions, not in the schools, not in social services, and other things, but with the parents themselves. That's extremely important. You may feel that when your children leave for school in the morning, the responsibility and freedom of choice are involved. Schools have become more training institutions than institutions for education, and in this we need to rewind. We have the opportunity to do this, and all of us must unite in that way. I believe that the schools and teachers are the best at teaching children and families are the best at raising children. That's how we like it. I am proud to share in this matter, and I will follow up on the success of the project. I know there's a lot of loose ends that are going to blow, and this is a project that's not going to leave us. We need to continue to protect these matters here in this room as well as others who are involved in the affairs of children in all the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason in his speech. He compared this bill or the situation that needs to be handled in order to put it on the turn of a huge oil vessel. What I'm afraid of in it is that we saw a giant oil ship in Suez canal, or a container ship, the largest in the world, and we saw how it went, there was no small problem in getting it. I often think about this time and peace. How sad it must be that we had not given ourselves a little more time on the welfare committee and made a little more peace! I hope we can make it back to the welfare committee. I've also asked myself about this waiting list. This is perhaps a realistic way to cope with the list of things to be done. We need to realize that this is also the time for Covid to enter it. It has been reported since then that there is an 80% increase in BUGL, Pediatrics and Teenages, and we have 9% of children, that is the latest case for suicide. This will add everything to existing things. That's why I'm asking, "Have a why." A senator is not as concerned as I am because we have actually started on the wrong end? We were to have spitd into the palms of the hands and the legal agreements of the United Nations, have a plan on how we're going to handle the waiting lists, and how things are going to work out before this exchange, and so is the time, perhaps we should have given ourselves another six months in advance to bring it into place and let it take effect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I believe there's an agreement between the matter and the material. The only thing I noticed was that I was arguing with him. The welfare committee was about the implementation of the personal protection issues. I think this case is much bigger than an export by which we have a general protection law in force in the country, so I can't see that the institutions and others working on it can escape the general legislation. I don't quite see where the big picture is. It's about some staging point. I believe that much more interests are involved in our completing this case, that we will get started on this journey while everyone agrees on what we're doing, just to reduce the possibility of such a waiting situation. A senator is deeply concerned about the way I am. By setting this thing up, we are working at past stages in the ministry so that fewer people will need to have a different range of services. People can go to autobiographical courses, the other development coaches, team treatments online, and many other things. Grab hold of a child's problem before the child's problems lead to the need for a BUDG service. That's what this is all about, early intervention. We have the whole system with us headed in that direction. While he is involved, we must complete this case, use it to change the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I have to disagree completely with him in terms of personal protection because personal protection is of utmost importance. We can't just say that we're gonna trust some institution with personal protection. We have courts. They cannot be trusted with personal protection, not with courts, Supreme Court, provinces. They cannot be trusted for personal protection; they are violating personal protection today; even Persian protection is on their side. So I am deeply worried about personal protection, personal experience with medical institutions, how personal protection is about medical records and other matters. I say for my part that we have and must make sure that there is no doubt and absolutely, that when these data are inserted into the system, the system is definitely protected so that there is no way to abuse them. Then there is something else that we forget about, too. Now the whole system is being overturned. They're creating a new agency, and more people need to be hired, and we know from experience that this will take time, and this will cause problems. There will undoubtedly be times when even courting ones will not talk together and they will not work. That's why I'm worried that maybe we're going too fast and we're going too fast, if it's not better to go a little slower, build on a rock, not on sand, not quick, but a rock that's definitely where we've charted this thing, and there's no danger, neither in personal protection nor in the system will be able to handle what we're doing and wait for a long time, which I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u82	A respectable president. Don't understand, so I don't worry about personal protection. I think it's incredibly important. But what I'm saying is that we have a general law of law, and if we're saying that personal protection is a problem in more places than these, we just need to look at the overall protection laws and whether we can deal with it better, but we don't solve all society's personal protection problems in this legislation. I'd like to point out that we've been cooperating with Peritoneal Protection and working with the personal protection in this case all along, so there's been an investigation all along, and we're not throwing our hand there. I'm just saying that I'm okay with it, and I think it would be sufficient for us to bring the personal protection in this legislation that affects today's general protection laws in this country. Therefore, I don't think there's any reason why I'm here on the last days of the council, but we should finish the matter. That's what I think is extremely important. With regard to the wait list and whether we're prepared, we've been working almost all this terms in great agreement with the institutions and parties that are about to take over the case, so the matter is not new to anyone. In fact, I think it is that while we've been working on this case here, a transnational committee with the Ministry and with these institutions, many cases have been solved. It's already in the induction process. That thought is already working. So the induction is under way, although the matter has not started and the result has already been positive. I just think it's important that we finish the case to speed up the good effect this has even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason for an excellent speech, which was handled with great depth and understanding in the present language, and I especially want to thank him for it. But there are some things I would like to ask. A senator in. This was shown in the case of a leading historian of the committee's opinion of more things earlier, why. paritaprevir Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, the country's rural communities, and there they were already working their way through the country. She named Hafnarfjördur, I remember, and that I keep Akureyri and some other community, but in any case, Hafnarfjörður was named. I'd like to ask you what. A senator what is involved in this and this case package that is being developed, which cannot be achieved within the current rule of action if it is true that some societies are already working after this approach. If the question is just about financing, it'd be interesting to get that information out. In this context, I'm not speaking against the physical issues, but if these goals can be achieved, basically, what is the role of the game? Because it looks like everything to me, and I might come into it in the second answer, that the financing thing seems to have been forgotten, at least to some extent. First, there is a question. Senator: Is there anything that prevents rural society from doing the service that is basically discussed in this bill under the present rule?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u84	A respectable president. It's like I came in against what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson earlier, things started out just because work was going on. This thought of early intervention, and something like that is already under way for the rural community. A senator came in. This matter is so wide and big, so varied. Some things, such as the levels of Kopava and others at first, are part of measuring how this is and having a better perspective. But what may be the basis and the most important thing to start, which cannot be started unless this issue is started, is collection, management, and communication between systems. That is what may be the basis for it. This database, and all of it, takes a lot of preparation. But that is what is the most powerful instrument, and everyone agreed on the Committee's work that it was essential to achieve the success of early intervention, to speed up the ministry from level three to level one, to improve the ministry there. That's why I think it's very important for you to start this case now. There are more than 70 rural societies in this country, so there must be a little bit clear who is responsible and that they all go in rhythm, but that children don't have to live on the fact that some rural societies are going to start and others don't; we need to have them all along with us on this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Interestingly, the main objective was to achieve by the members of the Committee, the members of the committee, the most concerned at the beginning of the discussion, which turned into personal protection, as I understand the facts, and that this is the point of achieving these objectives of the problem package, is a delay in the acceptance of information, and so on. In that light, I'd like to ask you why. In view of the concerns we may have had in mind, a member of the council, whether it was not a reason to apply counsel that may involve. ... at the Committee's panel of my services, to postpone the validation of the decision, even if it was only a few months to ensure that this personal protection, this system, these programs that need to be worked, will be ready. Isn't there some monasteries imminent over the work? It is so huge, and it has great interests. Well, what's the harm, anyway? A senator being careful and postponing the hearing, I think four months ago were mentioned, let's say six months? Counts 'em out. A senator that it will be any harm if this integration of information and crosslinking and the object involved in the personal protection principle is the key element in achieving the improved system we are here trying to introduce?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u86	A respectable president. We're here talking about our childhood and our children. Yeah, I think six months is a long time, and I think it's a lot of damage if they have to wait longer for this system to come. The sooner these computer systems work, the sooner we'll be able to save children from a lack of service. That's what we're dealing with here, kids who don't live under as good a situation as they possibly could. We need to grab them children. I'd like to point out that all those who are supposed to share their information into the database we're talking about here, into this central information collection, already have a computer system under the most stringent personal protection laws available to people, police, health systems, schools, and social issues. All these systems are under strict personal protection laws today, have experienced and efficient personal protection processes, and we have the whole process, for more than two years, considered these factors. We are not throwing in our hands or overindulging in personal protection. There's a personal protection law in force in the country. That's what we've been talking about. We have a very strict personal protection law here. Yeah, I don't think we can invite Icelandic youth to wait because there's a possibility we can do something different. Clearly, much has been considered. We're the lawgiver. We're not throwing our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u87	A respectable president. I'd like to introduce to you some of the things that I've only made in the answers under the discussion, and I feel that too little has been made up of, and nothing, in the committee's list of health committees, and then nothing, in the history of the Top of the World. Minister of well-being, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son. Given the facts, just the bill itself, the funding of the project seems to be off-limits. I'm gonna allow me to read from the bill to adjust the integration of services in the interests of successful children, which is the case here for discussion. It's a bill of the highest order. Minister as it happens. Article 6 of this report, which reviews the impact of the case, says by permission of a president, regarding the evaluation of financial impact: Therefore, the evaluation's standard is that the additional budget for the state funds due to the overall change could be studied between 1,360 and 1,802 million. K. Each year for the first years after law-enforcement, as well as induction costs. Thereafter, this cost is estimated to be ongoing and the completion of the induction period in 2024, that is the time of this induction cost. Then, on the next page, the president's permission says: "The induction rate of 2021 is financed in a budget bill of 2021. It's already there, and it's undisputed. Then it goes on, and it's remarkable in this, it's not my text, it's just the prime bill of the Minister himself, which is measured here on December 9, 2020. It says, with the permission of the president: 'other than that, expenses resulting from the agreed bill in a financial programme have not been expected. What's the highest message. Minister of well-being, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, sending in here? This fine case is here, and I said in answer to earlier today that there could not be any honest man against the goals set out there. Of course, questions can be asked as to how many of these views can be reached under the present rule of action, but there is another discussion. What I'm saying is that this huge issue is in the process that it seems that the financing part of it seems to have been considered little, except for the cost of late 2021. This is directly stated in the minister's text, again by permission of the president: ▪ Other sources of expenses resulting from the agreed bill in a financial programme have not been expected. So we agreed on a financial program for the year 20222/226 on Monday, just at the beginning of the week, so it's not as if it's not finished. I quickly feel nothing about the changes in that reality. It has been observed here in our discussion that the matter will be called into question. The welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and I'll give myself that these stitches will be put on, for, of course, this transition to the case is not acceptable. It's been discussed here, and I've come to face with it. A prominent member of the Committee's Committee of Health, the Halla of the Signý' Kristjánsdóttir, and the vice form of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and the representative of the Exhibition of the Committee, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, also answered me. It is far too bad to say that the representatives of the greater part had little information on how these matters were handled. I reiterate the importance of this examination by a welfare committee between the 2nd and 3rd. This was mentioned earlier in a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, vice president of the welfare committee, in terms of the expense arms here, that the additional expenditure of the state funds due to the overall change could be studied in the range of 1,360,802 million. K. There seemed to be a misunderstanding. A senator said that this was the conversation of the cost of government and rural society. It's not. According to the current text, this is the additional cost of state or state funds, just to be maintained. But you can understand that these numbers are difficult to throw at when so little attention has been given, and the reality is that such a project needs to be financed. The denominators'opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee is available on six pages, signing solely by the representatives of the greater part, which, of course, is special in itself if we bear in mind all the beautiful descriptions that have been carried out on cooperation and consultation in the progress of this matter. It would be interesting to know what caused such great solidarity to end in the process of the situation and that it was taken out of the welfare committee, apparently, a conflict between government and government opposition. But I would like to criticize what does not appear in the panel of parts; there is not a single word that the funding of the case, which, of course, is at best strange when it specifically says in the bill that expenses have not been assumed that result from the agreed bill in a financial program. I'd like to commend the representatives of the small part of the welfare committee for a fine committee opinion with a new proposal. The lesser part is set by reason of reason. paritaprevir Vala Völgu Helgadóttir, chairman of the Committee, conducted by the committee, Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson and Halldóra Mogensen. They're signing this committee opinion. That is the source of criticism. is a member of the Children's Protection Agency, who believes that the new projects of Children's Health and Family are more than 100% more expensive than the estimates are expected, 100%. One would be if the cost - free lunch had a margin of 100% - and it's already in news. This view does not fit into this discussion now; it has been in the reviews of the committee for a long time. There is one thing that seems to be a limited cost estimate, but there is, of course, if by day it is time for the funding after 2021, we would not be thinking that we agreed on a budget plan until 2026 last Monday. All I want to do is continue to quote here to the Committee on My Department of Health, which says, by permission of the President: After the unfathomable work of the House of Congress on matters of the children in the past few years, and Ministers' declarations on the importance of cooperation and cross - political reconciliation, this important work was completed in the process of removing the bills from the Commission in a conflict... I wondered what would explain that these actions are so important, a case in which even the minister seems to have forgotten to consider the funding, that it needs to be torn out of the committee. It's amazing. Here in the Commission's opinion, with permission from the President: ▪ After cross - political cooperation throughout the terms of the season, because of the lack of work at the end of the work, the explosion was the good cooperation and solidarity of the case. Of course, it is unusual that the matter should end at the end, but representatives of the greater part on the welfare committee must, of course, explain the reason for it. It was tried to recall earlier, since the members of the committee who were questioned found it difficult to explain these words in the 2021 bill of the prime minister's report that the cost of financial planning has not been expected. Then I began to examine talks or talks. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, at the highest. Minister of well-being, Ásmundur Daðason Daledon, in the discussions that took place on March 24 of the last March of the budget, the document adopted on Monday. That's where the question is. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín, the Minister of Ministers, to the financing and to point even. magazines in various comments that describe concern as to the lack of clear lines in these topics. That's even. Refer to the comments of the city of Reykjavík, where it says, by permission of the president: ▪ Determinable projects, if by law, will be large and costly for rural society and therefore need to ensure the maintenance of its new income stocks permanently. The review contains a key point on the 27th chapter of the article. A review by the U.S. National Association says, with permission from the President: However, the implementation of projects, financing and induction is still unclear, but the key is that active cooperation is achieved across the ministry and across the administrative level. Of course you're right. Worried about the funding and cost exchanges, there have been a number of times, so it is more special if it comes during the days leading up to the council that the funding is not clear in the case. I'm going back to this relationship. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and the highest. Einar, Daðason's social and juvenile minister in a discussion on the financial program of March 24th. Asked if he approves of the funding of the case and what is said in a financial program regarding the change in financing - the minister's answers were now as they were, but he says, even by permission of the president: A wonderful president. Briefly answer a question. The senator to see if the minister is comfortable with the funding of the case is: Yes, he is perfectly satisfied. This is the same minister who wrote in the bill text, with president's permission: ▪ Other sources of expenses have not been expected which result from the approval of the bill in a financial programme. It is December 9th that the minister gives up this text. On March 24 the minister claims to be perfectly satisfied. But what will the minister then discuss? This all goes on to the so - called economic analysis, when the expected economic benefits of the case were calculated for the next decades. I'm not inclined to, but I'm sure it's a practical advantage in this case, and I'm sure my goals are excellent. It has nothing to do with whether the matter is financed or not. The minister continues, with the permission of the president: There are in the range of 1.5◯2 billion per year that this system change will result in the loss of preparation, database, induction team and other activities. - He's counting on a little more cost. - From then on, it's both state and community. What's happening to the state is in my language field in this bill. What has been added to the rural communities is contained in an equation fund. So the case is completely financed for the next three years. I can't quickly see, but I hope it's clear between the 2nd and 3rd. on welfare committees, the change to finance the case has been since the bill was submitted on December 9, 2020, claiming that the matter is not financed outside the budget for 2021, that is, lacking funding for 2,202, 2023, and 2024. And none of the members of the committee I have answered today have been able to answer whether there has been a change in financial programs that ensures that this is the case. I challenge it. A welfare committee to examine this carefully. I'd like to come in somewhere else. You see, that was a very interesting exchange. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson to the minister of March and, by permission of the President, I quote here in the highest court. Minister of Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, who is being discussed with a computer system at any given moment. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came in with an important link in this whole thing: ▪ We also have the funds we need in the current year to provide a unique network of communication that is supposed to be underlying on this system to help all parties communicate with them. It's being prepared for tenders, we have funding for it, and we have to install a special import team. But we can't start that release until the council finishes the case... It's just the way it meets that this auction is on its way. If there were any warnings, I was shown the advertisement only earlier. So it's not much of a service in these answers to the highest. Minister from March in a financial discussion. But I'll just be, because I've read this fun talk and I've criticized the highest level of it. well - being minister recently, for the fact that the minister may not seem to get out of bed in the morning without spending tens of millions of dollars of taxpayers'money to support the various groups he is eager to take support from, quoting what he says in this speech - of course, this is not relevant to the case, but I think this is just such an excellent statement that I want to keep it. It's the highest. The minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason, who says in this exchange of words at what? paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son, who is involved in a financial program, has been allowed by the president. I think if she had made very significant changes, it would have been a serious risk, just so we speak Icelandic, that people would have gone to all kinds of non-profit campaigns. I don't think that would have been helpful for popularity or debate in the conference hall. It's expensive sentences and fun, and I wanted to keep her in the light of any minister who claimed this in the past March. Of course, this was the minister's explanation of why financial plans had changed as little as they were, which underscores the fact that the matter appears to be insurmountable. In reviewing the history of the highest. A minister from December 9, 2020, for the case, seems to have no plans for funding any created object except for the computer system I mentioned earlier, which, of course, is just a fraction of the cost we have at expense, no matter what right it may be. Everything else is in store for future savings, which are subtle, but it has nothing to do with the finance of the situation. I wish. well - being committees in this work between 2 and 3rd. If it is true that this funding is in the financial budget, it is only the best. But there is no evidence to suggest that this is the case, based on the answers of the members of the larger section today, and on what exactly appears on the Minister's bill, to which I reiterate it, by permission of Presidents: '-Kossedation due to induction in 2021, is financed in the budget of the year 2021. It's undisputed. It's in the way. But then, with the permission of the president: ◯ Other ways, expenses resulting from the agreed bill in a financial programme have not been expected. This can't be any clearer. It's gonna be a good time. The welfare committee to show that if this is the case, this case is potentially unacceptable. But I'm not suggesting a postponement except for the possible procrastination to complete a computer system and other such activities, it's days or months. [[The president calls.]] However, the evidence in this regard has to be proved, since the evidence suggests that the matter is in thin air.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u88	A respectable president. Looks like it's what I'm talking about. The members of the Central Party are building effects that can be lifted, but I don't think that's going to work. Of course, the matter can be discussed, and we have called this issue into question between 2 and 3. and a better explanation should be made. The reason that the bill itself does not speak of financing in a financial programme is that the bill was measured on November 30. This is where we read from the bill and give the ultimate explanation. Ministers but financial programs were not yet on schedule. As far as I'm concerned, and to make sure of it, this is a financial budget. And although we may not be able to bite about it here in this chair, we point to some precise line that stands out, it has been claimed, and it is in a financial program. I think it may be said that we are, naturally, to begin with an enormously important case. Let's not be loading unnecessary cuts because, in fact, we agree to move on and we're working on this. Economic influences cannot be minimized, even if they are not available. To the future, this is a vital business of exploiting us. I'm just gonna get this over here. I don't have a question, but I'm just gonna say it's a financial plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, I have to give them comments to my father's house that they're trying to build shielding in order to get in the way of the situation. What a lot of crap. Senator, head of record, more of the part. What is that? What plan are we on? I believe that I am here with very grammatical criticism and questions and an appeal to the Committee to find out how this is, but none of the members of the committee who have come here earlier today have been able to do so. And because there is a financial programme here, it would have been. The head of the greater part could just point out where this is because it has been in the discussion for hours. If all of this were so clear and good, it would probably not be a big problem to point out where that funding was being placed. I haven't felt it so quickly, but I'm not a member of the committee either. I find it quite amazing that funding such an important matter -- I reiterate that I believe that all members of Congress agree with the goals set out here - are only let go and here come. The head of the committee, in effect, says: "I can't point it out anywhere, but it's in here somewhere, and I'm ashamed of the person here who's trying to build up some shield to let this thing happen. I'm totally showing it to the Father House.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u90	A respectable president. I'm here representing the Committee with a bill for Children's and Family Laws from the greater part of the welfare committee. The committee also received reviews and memos. These matters were discussed at the Committee, and are intertwined with those discussed earlier, such as the Quality and Health Organization. I went over the history and conduct of this case, as in the first case, and I'm not repeating it, because these matters were done at the same time, and a great deal and need and a good work where many people helped to the plow, people from all over the country, both in rural society, services, services, children, and adults. I think it's very important that this breadwinner has taken place because we're here to work on a very big project that is going to work for the future. I'd also like to thank the welfare committee for the job, because we've had this case all winter long. There have been many meetings and frequent arrivals. If we were to gather the time discussed on the committee, I think it would be a few hours. So this matter has been discussed well in the committee. It is always the case when visitors arrive, then we are asking and they are answering, and there will be a platform between the members of the committee and the guests and also between us. However, as mentioned earlier, it is suggested in the bill that a new government agency be established, which will be subject to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Agency, which will be named a children's and family room, accepts a wide range of child protection projects, including general government support, counseling for individual cases and structure and administration of homes, institutions and specialized resources. So a large part of the Children's Institute for Children's Health and Family Services will be assigned to the Children's Institute of Health, while other projects of the Child Welfare will be transferred to the Quality and Health Organization. If the bills are legal, the Children's Institute for Child Welfare will be laid down. The reviews to the Committee pointed out that a group of children's protection has a special status, especially because of the rich sources that child - welfare authorities meddle in the privacy of families. As a result, reporters felt that a children's and family clinic should be defined as an independent institution, not under the oversight of a minister. The majority point out that a children's and family clinic will not have access to decisions in child protection. Although child protection will be an important part of the Agency, it will be expected to carry a new and varied project. Will be the responsibility of Ministers to shape common policies and implementation programmes for successful children and to become the Agency's teamwork, integration and coordination projects. The majority of the Agency thus feels that it is important that the Agency submits to Ministership in accordance with local rules, including to prevent doubting the games of policy development and child planning. Then, in particular, the majority point out that the minister and the Ministry are governed by administrative rights and must base their actions and decisions on objective views. A greater estimate is that since the Agency submits to the Directorateship of Ministers, it will be possible to prevent undisputed interference by individual matters. In this respect, the majority of the object does not agree with the above views. For the Committee it was noted that a children's and family room would not be functioning on the basis of law No. 61/2011, about the status of Icelandic and Icelandic Sign Language. The majority of the data shows that there are reports on the potential for harmonization of projects of specialized paediatric, socio-economic, health and cultural services. The existing bill is not suggested to link the activities of such institutions together, but the majority agree with the Department of Social Affairs that there is good reason to consider this subject further. A cashier. The Commission's reviews made it clear that a children's and family clinic will be permitted to charge a fee for a project carried out by the Agency, as per Article 8. The bill, which stipulates a new 7th paragraph. child protection. Instruct the teacher that the directive is vague and that such remuneration is inconsistencies among those who need to be consulted by the Agency. The majority of this points to the fact that no material change is made on the record for the services referred to in the bill and is unchanged from the current standard of service. The new proposals made by the Committee are like I run below. The committee noted that in the bill, there could be a clearer emphasis on the human rights of the groups to which it is intended to protect. The majority agree with these comments, believing that in the bill, it will be a mandatory obligation to the government to interpret rights that result from the law in accordance with the laws of the Constitution and international commitments. The rest of the section suggests recovery of Article 3. The bill will be added to provisions that should achieve this goal. Interpretation of personal information: In Article 4. The bill contains the permission of a children's and family agency for the processing of personal information in relation to the Agency's projects. According to the Persian Guardian, there is a suggestion for a 2 - mg word change. the arrangement with the aim of making it clear that the provisional communication is not beyond what is necessary in accordance with the memorical requirement of personal protection and the processing of personal information. A greater proportion agree to the proposal of Peritoneal Protection and to the adjustment of its provision. And other things: The more part feels the need to make some adjustments to the technical bill and not depend on the components of the bill, including to make sure that you agree between the law columns and the views of the Icelandic language. So the suggestions need no further explanation. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change that I have already introduced. Under this view, for example, journalist Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u91	A respectable president. We're here on a bill for a children's and family law song which, of course, is part of this children's package that we're dealing with right now. I cut it in the face of what we heard. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason to what? A senator said it was a lot of money. Does this mean that all cases are well - funded, knowing exactly how much this will cost? Has something been separated? And then I'd also like to ask, because now we're talking about creating a new institution, if she's not worried that it might take a while, and it might also lead to more waiting in the system because we've also noticed that it's somehow built into the system that the waitings are extending everywhere, for example. Just because of Covid, it causes some problems, and we see this in the health system as it works. So this is going to be part of this package, where we know that there are already huge waiting lists. I'm afraid it might get a little lumpy there. I really hope that this will go all the way because it's a good thing. I am concerned about both the financing and how it is going to develop a new organization and the human family.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his counter-sponsored response. I'll agree with his concern with the waiting list. There are waiting lists today and things like this aren't supposed to work. That's why we're trying to make changes here that will hopefully lead to a waiting away to the future, and that's why we're continuing to initiate this as soon as possible, both the induction and the system start working as soon as possible because it will soon break this waiting list. I saw in the financial program now, when I went to the window in it, that capitals are expected to try to shorten the waiting list, e.g. at the observatory and counsellors' station, and I certainly hope that there won't be as much need as there will be then, hopefully, abbreviated. As to whether this bill of the Children's and Family Room is fully funded, I expect it and it took on an enormously expensive analysis of the integration of all the sources produced by this bill. I mention, for example. cost analysis from Haraldur Líndalur and others. We've been given information on this, and I'm told that it's a lot of money, and I've been windowing this in the financial program earlier and seeing that this is financed in the induction process. We hope this starts to come to our attention quickly, that it will be a reminder of the system's cost when it starts working.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer but he wants to reiterate something I've seen here, and there's concern from the deaf and the hearing impaired about their issues, and this is shown here in the Committee on Special Services. This is addressed specifically, and it says under the permission of a president: While the available bill is not suggested to link such institutions together, the majority agree with the Ministry of Social Affairs that there is good reason to consider this subject further. Don't you think it's just a little bit of a time to keep it inside? Now these people are calling for this, and then it's a mature help and a telescope. The microengineering alliance is also concerned about the legalization of the United Nations Convention. Is there a plan in this system to make sure that all these systems are taken and they speak together into this new system so that they do not have to worry about it? We know that disabled people have had to wait and are usually at the end of the row. We're talking about children, so we're going to have to get our sleeves up and deal with these issues and not let these people wait or get out of the water one more time, but we're gonna have to deal with it right away and make sure their viewpoints and issues come up and they're gonna react.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u94	A respectable president. I am totally concerned because when I received the bill, I had not been on this Senate Committee, I just thought, " Where is this group? When I studied better and understood exactly what it was all about, it's integrated and early support for all children. I take my mind to that, and I know by my own eyes that early intervention in deaf children is everything. This service has been offered at the Deaf's Communication Center, and it can divide the development of these children. And like a cot. A senator came in with all the children, whether they are disabled or not, immigrants or someone who needs closer and stronger support to begin with, this bill should put their arms around them, as it says here, cooperated with the projects of specialized services that hear under the social and child - care minister and minister of education and culture - these people have been talking and involved in this process. On the other hand, we agree that there is good reason for this to be taken into consideration, I stress it. I agree that we need to make further reviews, especially in the induction process. Is there a need to coordinate this much better than that? Well, I hope we're just going to be examined, then.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u95	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for a children's and family law. This is one of the issues in this package, three if not four. But it's all very good, and it seems to me at all times after today's discussion that these matters can be handled and kept on a welfare committee. They travel between the 2nd and 3rd. I hear that we should be able to find that basis, and there should be no disagreement on these matters because these are very important matters and are crucial. Of course, you are always concerned about creating a new system, both of the time you will build it up and also about the effects of the old system while the new system is being built. What I'm most worried about, and I want to reiterate it, is that in all of this, we need to take into account all the people in this system. Just like that. In this matter, Children's and Family Services, there are 15 local talks from groups such as Developmental Help, the Quantum Community and the Deaf and Hearing Communication Center. These groups are naturally worried, and it is only natural for those who have mismanaged the Icelandic system to worry about. We must not forget the worst in society, where children are around, and their circumstances can be very bad, both in poverty and perhaps also in health of this group. It is proved, and it has been shown that the quality of life of these individuals who grow up in a situation where there is a limited budget, and hence the quality of life is not in any way normal in relation to what to be, is not on the level with the rest of us. Therefore, it is so important that all the matters are addressed and really necessary in this context, as I have repeated and intend to reiterate once more, to legalize the United Nations Convention on Infirm People. That is the key to all of this, that we are there, and that we could also be human rights because it is, of course, human rights that a contract of disabled people is legalized because it has shown itself that while it is not, it is very high that their rights and rights are respected. And then, of course, we need to make sure that there are no endless waiting lists for speech pathologists and other sources. With a children's and family room to create a new institution, I'm worried about that. It tells itself that as we build a new organization, it could become a crumbling plant, and we have to make sure that while building it and while people are growing up and training them, there will be no more waiting issues, and some children will fall out of the system and get no help. This is because, as the situation exists today, the system does not work. It's a long way from working, and it tells itself that if we have 1,000 kids on the list and maybe. 600 children at the observatory, and we have a waiting list to get to a waiting list, that this is a faulty system. That's why I'm so glad we're trying to establish another system. But what I fear most is what happens to those who are in a position to need help now, not yesterday, not tomorrow, but now. It's where the shoe squeezes. I know we're talking about spending some money on it. But the waiting lists are always getting longer, and the children have to wait. There's something inhuman about having a system where children need to wait so long. So hopefully all of this will work out, and hopefully we'll be able to take it to a welfare committee and try to integrate it so that everyone can participate. Of course, building it up takes time. We know, and it's clear that language, development, and various aspects of this need to be taken into account. Then each member has built a system; it is one system of deaf people and visual acuity, another system with the National Institutes of Development, and then there is another system elsewhere, and these systems are all to talk with each other. Of course, I'm worried about how we're going to get them to do that and how it takes time and how they can be connected so that they talk together so that they get better service, faster service, and better working on the lists. That's hard work because we know people have to wait for three years to come. It tells us that we have to do something, and it's a long time for us to do it. Let's hope it works with these initials we've been talking about and we'll talk about two more. But I'm going to make this work, and I'm going to accept it on a welfare committee, and I'm going to look back there and try everything I can to resolve these issues in harmony and harmony.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u96	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his speech. Because I know that the senator is very interested in discussing the affairs of those less fortunate, very hardworking in the battle for disability, and for children, I would like to ask the senator: I noticed in the senator's talk that he had doubts about the time to build this system in connection with an earlier system or with an earlier system. I felt similar tone in it, as did so many times earlier in the debate of the senator when he spoke of the need to reinvent disability systems and those who need a new start. What causes the senator to worry about the fact that these systems, as the senator said, are talking? Is there anything that has been taught the senator by fighting the system for years to cause the senator to fear them, or does the senator believe that this could go well for him if the financing was all right? Or is the senator really worried that it will take a long time to set these systems together?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir He Sigurður Páll Jónsson's answer. Yes, I just have to say that I know the matter, unfortunately, with my own experience, both in connection with a disabled child, being in a community like self-sufficiency, the Autosaving Home, the Microcreature Alliance, and other places before I entered the council and then being in this system for another dozen years. That is why I hope so much and fervently that I am wrong. But it's always this doubt and that experience that teaches you that what you often feel is too good to be true. That's why I'm afraid of this. These are many cases, these are four cases, and they are amazingly extensive. There's a lot to combine to make this work, and what I'm afraid is that the time frame that's set on this is too short, I'm convinced of that, we know that he'll be too short. But the question is, do we get this, and I hope I'm wrong, but I hope that in four years, you're standing here in this chair and thinking, "Well, wait, what's gotten into this system? I'm standing in this symposium today and saying, "Wait, what has been accomplished in the system for older citizens?" I'm sorry. The benefits are very low because they have not submitted to them during this period.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and his vision of the experience of the system in terms of the struggle for microorganisms. But as we have seen in the talks here, this case will be called into the Committee between 2 and 3. ... and I heard that the senator rejoiced at it, and we all do, so that there may be some kind of mistake on these matters that have been discussed here today. But there's one thing I'm worried about being difficult to fix. It is that it is not clear how financing is to take place or that text is missing into the financial program in the future. In view of this, I would like to ask the senator: Is the senator not concerned about this too, that the matter is not being realized because it is not clear in a financial plan into the future? Because there are very strict rules that apply to public financial matters. The budget was set when the law was accepted for 2015, so there must have been a time when such a big and important matter will be legalized. Doesn't the senator worry about it, like the person standing here has?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. Jónsson I'm worried about that. Of course, you can't help it, but we've heard the highest. The social and child - care minister here says in this chair that an earmark has been made, if I recall correctly, 2 billion in this system. But you haven't seen it in the financial plan or in the budget, so I don't know what it is. paritaprevir And the original - Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir also said it was a treasure. She has said it here in this sermon that it is a treasure, and I sincerely hope that it is only right that it has been arranged so that the funding will not be a problem. But I'm also worried about another problem that might be missing, which may have been a little discussed here, and that's the problem I encountered the other day with the wait list, but it's that it's not just money that's missing, it's a caremaker, because I understand, and I'm not surprised, that it's hard to get people to handle these issues and that the pressure is enormous. We'll be aware of this, too, at the Land Hospital. People are burning out, doctors are burning out, the pressures are getting very intense that people are giving up. This system that we're changing here, the pressures of that system have been enormous in recent years on people, and they've tried both on employees, children, and their families. It's this stress that I also worried about and whether we have educated people to accept it or if we get it. It will be, I think, also, a big question for the future to answer, whether it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u100	A respectable president. I bring here an understatement of a change to a bill on the QA and the Health Department. The committee has discussed the matter. There have been prime news that have been discussed on a welfare committee so that visitors who presented the committee on the matter of integrating the services for the benefit of children and family agencies were also presented to the committee in this matter, and reviews were received from a number of parties. The article explained the background of the case and the work that has been done, so I'm not repeating it. The bill suggests the establishment of a new government agency under the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Agency, which will be entitled Quality and Health Organization, will receive a wide range of child protection projects. Some of the projects of the Children's Protection Agency will thereby be moved to the Quality and Observation Organization, while other projects of the Children's Health Organization will be moved to the Children's and Family Laboratory. If the bills are legal, the Children's Institute for Child Welfare will be laid down. According to the bill, QA will be assigned to grant permission to foster parents, but now there are such licences at the Children's Institute under child protection laws. The committee received comments on this arrangement, and some authorities believe that such permits divisions are at home in the Children's and Family Office. The majority point out that our objective is 5th. The bill is about to establish a state-of-the-art national permit when clients provide services to support the Agency's surveillance. The majority consider it important to increase the effectiveness of monitoring by separating the monitoring from other tasks and ensuring that the surveillance provider can handle repairs if necessary, in this case, in the form of decommission. The majority of them think it's important that there's a license party and that it's in the same hand. Other arrangements may create uncertainty about authority boundaries and licence requirements, if there is one institution, but authority to disembarment from another institution. So the majority don't think that it's consistent with the basic ideas of working between these new institutions that children and family agencies will be given surveillance jobs. In view of the greater part, this monitoring should preferentially be done at home at the health care and observation centre. The committee noted that in the bill, there could be a clearer emphasis on the human rights of the groups to which it is intended to protect. The majority agree with these comments and believe that in this bill it will be a responsibility to interpret rights that result from the law in harmony with the rights of the constitution and international commitments of the Constitution. The rest of the section suggests recovery of Article 3. the bill will be added a set of requirements that should achieve that goal. Two. Section 15. The bill recommends that the QA and SEC can perform ◯ national, home, and other services in which there is a service to the Agency's monitoring and that the Agency is authorized to perform unsupervised field observations. The committee received comments on this subject, pointing out that such unannounced field of observation can include extensive intervention in the Constitution right to privacy, family, and their families living there and therefore need to be clear. The majority of the data shows that the term "at home" should include the term "XIII." and XIV. section 4.4 Child Protective Law, including treatment and home, but not a home. The majority of these feel the need to clarify the directive further to prevent the misunderstanding that the Agency is permitted to perform field observations in private homes. She proposes a change in the form of that material. In the 17th. The bill insists that the reports of services are written. The committee suggested that sensitive community groups may have difficulty sending in written complaints. The majority of the items are included in this indication and suggest that a change of 2 and 3th paragraph 1st is proposed. 17th par. The bill that takes her into account. The European Union pointed out that there is no general law on consultation with the relationship on the phrase of administrative instructions and quality guidelines. The majority agree on these statements, but they emphasize that consultation is also made with other stakeholders. In this way the Minister's regulations can be discussed about services provided by both state and rural areas, and the majority of them consider that the need is, not to legalize with rural society on all administrations, but only those relating to rural areas. Thus, the majority suggest that a new set of laws be added to the bill, which contains the obligation of a minister to consult with the European Union when appropriate and with other stakeholders when appropriate. The more part feels the need to make several adjustments to the technical bill, which do not depend on the components of the bill. Among other things, the greater part suggests a 2nd word change. Section 12. that discuss serious and unexpected events. Other forms of change do not need to be explained. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes I've presented. Under this opinion, write why. Senators Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. As editor of this majority opinion, I hereby refer to the committee between 2 and 3. I didn't like to do it before with the other bills, but these three bills go to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u101	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize the law on the state's analysis and counseling center, No. 83/2003 (partment of services, roles, and so on), from the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors and has also received reviews made available, both for visitors and for discussion. The main element of the bill is, uh... change in the name of the Agency, updated definitions, changes due to increased cooperation and integration of paediatric services and change from the arrangement of the so-called primary analysis. It is also the subject that groups of those who receive services from the DG and Advisory Centre will be better defined and the Agency's duties will be clarified as well as that the role of the Agency towards the providers will be further described. Finally, the situation of the analystic and counseling centre is explained to the new members of the Department of Social Affairs, especially the Children's and Family, and the Health Department. 2 mgr. Section 4. Code on state diagnostic and counseling, No. 83/2003, the Agency serves primarily to those aged 0◯18 years. 1st par. In 1st. The law says their aim is to ensure that children with severe developmental disorders, which can lead to disability, obtain diagnosis, advice, and other options. The review points out that the only source to provide advice on national level because of development inhibition and autism is that no person is responsible for advice on adult patients with this impairment. Older ones who have moved to the country often find it difficult to obtain a suitable diagnosis, but they often provide a basis for various rights and services. The Commission agrees that there is a need for resources for older individuals, both for those whose age falls no longer under the State's analysing centre and counseling centre, and for older individuals who need analysis. The committee points out that the bill is the result of other bills that have the goal of integrating child - welfare services. Therefore, the Committee currently considers that the range of ages cannot be extended and thus increasing the number of services provided by the Agency. As noted in a review of stress, models are formed to reach the Agency and have been employed to shorten them. The Commission aims at the Ministry to investigate what services are available for older individuals, both those who have received service from the State's Analysis and Advisory Centre to the age of 18 and the potential for older ones, as well as the Ministry to evaluate whether an age limit should be increased to the Agency's services. One reference work says that it does not show whether this particular bill has been consulted with children. The committee points to a 354 committee opinion on integration in behalf of successful children, as well as the proposed bill and others, to form a new framework for the welfare of children. There the Committee suggests that a formal staff will be appointed to support the bill induction project and that this group should include: They have cute children. The 8th is listed in paragraph 4. The bill that a diagnostic and counseling centre is permitted to include assessments of the needs of disabled persons in individual rural and ministries on the basis of a contract with the Community funds for payment. Then the second number says. 10th par. The bill that a minister is permitted to set claimary to cover costs at seminary, publication of educational material, and professional assistance and counselling to the government and other service employers, cr. Count 5 and 6. Section 4. A review of the bill showed whether it might be reasonable for the Agency to charge a fee for its legal services, which was directly collected by rural areas or through the Fund. The committee points out that the regulations given under the bill do not involve material change but are replaced by 4 mg. and 3 mg. Section 6. current track. Doesn't count the committee for abdicating this warrant. In 1st. The bill is proposed to change the name of the Agency to become an analysis and counselling center instead of the State's diagnostic and counseling centre. The review of the bill says that the European School Assessment Centre without separating public education from 2017 is strongly encouraged to compromise the emphasis on the analysis of children and, instead, emphasis on early support and cross-cutting events at previous levels. In this light the name of the Agency will be a consulting and diagnostic centre. The committee agrees with this view and believes that the name of the Agency is more appropriate because of its emphasis on counseling role. The committee also suggests changes that are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. The committee also suggests changes that are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under these publications. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, in advance, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristjánnsdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Birgigur Birgir Ármannsson, Árnadóttir Kolblóttir, in advance, Halldóra Mogensen, in advance, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdotir. I've already traced a transition proposal and I've completed my case on changing the law on the state analysis and counseling center to become a consulting and diagnostic centre.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. An authority on the background, but there are certain things I would like to pray for. An overtremate snooping around. It is so that when I read through this bill and the reviews available to them, I wondered, especially when reading the committee's opinion of a greater part of the welfare committee, that it is really hard to see what this agency adds to what it is not already working for the Children's Protection Agency, and it is largely based on moving projects from the Children's Institute to the Quality and Health Services Agency, and laying down the Children's Institute. Well, maybe. strategist, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, only gone through this? What additional effect is achieved there? And it can be said that my experience with reading the committee's opinion is that the welfare committee is getting a little closer with half mind, this particular case, it's difficult to identify the costs and scope of this other than to change the name of the Children's Institute. But the most striking source is actually reading the Documentation of Peritoneal Protection, where concern is being made about the basis for this new approach. But just to sum up my question. Forecaster: What adds this new institution to, which is not today employed by the Children's Institute of Children's Health? Would it not have been easier to change the name of the Children's Institute to that new name, adding to the work that the bill assumes to be added to the current arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm just wondering if there's some kind of misunderstanding going on. Now it's not a new institution, the state identification and counsellor has been operating since 19 hundred seventy and something. Are we mistaken?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u104	There was a QA and a surveillance facility above.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u105	But, yeah, I don't know if I'm supposed to go into that other bill. I had somehow in mind that this was a misunderstanding, but okay. This new monitoring facility, as these primary products indicate, is followed by the integration work as well as, as they say, to see if this institution is unnecessary. I don't think, I think she has a role, it was considered good to tell her about the Children's and Family Room. I hope I can get close to this, because I'm gonna be doing a little bit behind this. I thought that was it. A senator would be talking about a new diagnosis and counseling station. But these institutions are being integrated because of these integrating elements. Therefore, the separation is being made, creating this organisation that falls under quality and monitoring issues in terms of these integration products and other systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u106	A respectable president. I have to pray. The head of the welfare committee is sorry. This is the kind of paint here from the highest level. Minister of well-being. There was this 11th case on the agenda of the Quality and Health Organization and now we're in the state's diagnostic and counseling centre. Are we not on the same page? I counted the story, because I missed its beginning, being for the welfare and observation agency, but now let's let it lie between parts. Clearly, since this is the subject of the discussion, it has been quickly removed. But I'm going to let myself ask for a good weather at the head of the welfare committee because, of course, these speculations were about the welfare welfare welfare and welfare department. And again to add to these items: Wouldn't it have been more intimate to make a replacement of the name on it and transform the Children's Health Organization into this new tool called the Quality and Health Organization, and then to press on to those projects that actually add to the fact that soon appeared to you to be a major change in the name of the Children's Health Organization? And again, I apologize for not giving any notice in the course of time. In these so - called child cases, the head of every committee member of the welfare committee was here in a pita. But the question stands, and I apologize that I have missed, as I say, the separation between the languages, i.e. Here in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-06-03-106.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, well, if this bill is legal, then the Children's Health Agency will be laid down. And I don't know the whole career in this, but they're starting a new administrative agency and it's gonna be called a QA and a surveillance agency that's taking some part of the roles that the Children's Institute had, but not everyone, I understand. Whether it had been a name change or anything else, I assume this includes laying down one institution and creating others, and the project is moving in between. In order to break down walls and systems and improve child - care services, it was part of the system modification, divide up the Children's Institute, put some of the surveillance roles into this QA and then continue in the Children's and Family Office, or something like that. I don't know the exact projects that are being distributed in there, but this was the thought of it.
