ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following sendees requesting every time to provide a written answer to queries: From the health minister for the requested procedure. 1087, on access to the Nyxoid nasal spray or equivalent product, from Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir; from foreign and development secretary for inquiry on Parliamentary papers 1134, on a customs agreement with the European Union, from the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson. 9.0, with regard to counselling services, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Sveinsson Sjönson, to padding. 1147, on legal advice, from Björn Leví Gunnarsson's son; and finally from Environment and Resource Minister for a inquiry on Council Report 1129, on counseling services, contractoring and temporary projects, from Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u2	A respectable president. This morning, there was a meeting at the pro board. Last week I sent an opinion to the Committee, asking the chairman in writing and in a meeting to take the matter up to discuss whether we wanted to take it out and then what to do with it. The senators wanted to share the opinion. The matter is the 44th matter, which is now not a high number, a dignified president. It's ready. All guests are finished. I've asked the Committee if anyone wants more guests, but they didn't respond. The name of the committee is ready, but what? The head of the committee, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, refuses to put the matter on the program, which, according to my understanding, is contrary to the rules of the Presidency Committee and then the Congress. It's boring to report this here, a respectable president, because this terms have been unusually peaceful, as if the left movement of a green bid should be able to testify. It is boring to have to go to one of these things with the head of the industry committee for something as simple as setting up a subject. The case is ready. It's been ready for a while. There are no perplexing reasons for these delays. Hv. The chairman of the Committee has no reason to refuse the program and must do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u3	Mr. President. I'll just come up and say the word with the what. Senator. It is boring when the cases that have completed all treatments in committees do not get normal handling of them. Happily, this has not been so much with us lately, but something has happened. I think it'd be a good thing for the council if we stopped playing this game on committees, that cases ready to go out and if there's no valid reason against it, they'll go out and get a walk here in the Senate Hall. It's not complicated, it's not difficult. It is quite clear in the council how this is going to be done. If people can put aside political games and do their job, they are better for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u4	Mr. President. As for the case discussed, that cases have not been planned on the job committee, it is such that the chairman has a means of managing matters and although the case has not yet been taken on the program, it will be scheduled, as I have said it. Senator. Other issues have taken priority, and in each committee, priorities are set. The following issue has not been discussed materially with the committee, but it will yet be discussed materially, even if the opinion of the committee is ready. The matter has not been addressed materially, and it will be done. But presidents prioritize matters on the basis of their urgency and will continue to do so. A senator may expect his case to be addressed sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u5	Mr. President. I'm here to join them. Government senators who have spoken here. I'd like to ask the president if there's any reason why the President is meeting with the officers of the NTSB, because I know that many committees are prepared for Congress and are being assigned to the committee. I know, for example. that there are two cases from the Synod council that will be requested for the program, will be reviewed for approval by committees. Now, all of us know that the program has been filled with members of Congress at this council. We've held up the program, the anti-continents. This is not going to work and is not to be pleasing to the council if, in turn, they are not to be allowed out of the available committees. I hope the President thinks it's because it won't be peace if it's going to be a mess.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u6	A respectable president. In the light of words, whyRafney Magnúsdóttir I have to contend that I have done exactly what is right in this case as the head of the case, exactly every single thing. I've asked for visitors when it's appropriate, which came when it was appropriate. I presented an opinion to the committee early last week, and I've been praying. A candidate on two or three stipulations to set the matter on schedule. This morning's words from what happened. According to my understanding, a member of the council was not going to be on the program. That's why I'm standing here today in a pita. I just want to make sure that I did everything right and objectively in this matter. I've consulted with a body of council members, consulted with the rules of the presiding committee, and people who know them better than I do. Yet I'd like to rejoice in those words. A senator to establish the matter. That's good news. I'm glad you're here. But I remind you, the peace that has ruled here during the election season is not self-concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u7	A respectable president. It is true that there has been a fine agreement on the activities of the council of this council and has been well - known for its many matters. As has been, at least During the past session since my appointment, the beginning has been often in the form of the matter of Congress. It is true that there are priorities here, and government matters, yes. But at the same time, I'd like to say that in the spirit of the good cooperation that has already existed, I feel that we are going to be able to maintain such a good atmosphere and be very careful whether we can cooperate with all the government issues - because the committees are still heavily read, I think - they're part of a political agenda, along with those matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u8	President. As presidents of the committee, we have the program, but that is not totalitarian authority. They must respond, and it says that the matter is scheduled. If I just heard from the head of the professional committee, the case should be planned, but within some framework. The fact is that if three members of the committee wish to do so, the matter should be arranged within three days. Usually, when a leading man wishes to do so, it's one or two meetings. Then we've got a little stretch on this right now. After listening to this discussion, listen to the speaker of the case, who has already demanded that the matter be established, and why. The commission plan, which has already stated, should be scheduled for the meeting, is all I believe that a landing will be achieved in this case, that if not at the next meeting, it will arrive on the schedule. All you have to do is finish this discussion about the committee's opinion and go to the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u9	Mr. President. It may just be nice to have this discussion here at the Senate Hall. Hv. paritaprevir So this morning, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has failed to understand my words correctly, that I was not going to put this matter on schedule even though it was not yet scheduled. I declared earlier, of course, that it will be scheduled, and we need to take up a material discussion as well as the content. The name of the committee is certainly ready. A senator has requested that the matter be addressed to a program that has been received. I just hope that's all. A senator will choose peace, not war, and I will be a peacemaker, and he will just set up the white flag, and we will discuss this matter in the near future, until later, as I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u10	Mr. President. Sounds to me like I'm about to get a landing on this thing, which is just that the case is getting paid off normally. I'd like to speak to you for a second. Twenty-seven. A Parliamentary song that says, by permission of the President: ▪ If a committee member proposes a conclusion of the matter and it is taken from the committee, the Chairman is obliged to vote for the proposal at the hearing it is presented. The motion is considered to be only accepted by...•and so on. I hope that these techniques do not have to be used, in this way, to require a vote on how things are done, but to get a relatively normal progress, that everyone can accept that when cases are prepared for release, they are ready to be paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u11	The president has shown tolerance for the development of an additional meeting in the job management committee, but another is the belief that in general the work of the committees is better off at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u12	A respectable president. Enterprises perpetuate, we develop artificial intelligence, and the self-activity of more and a larger part of the community. When business practices of the free market and the technology of the fourth industrial revolution are intervening, we must protect the working class of our day, or we may no longer be able to control the spirits of the abyss that the fourth industrial revolution will bring about. Dissociation of society will test society's infrastructure, where the government has set a good example and built into the future, bridges that trust in the beginning of democracy, human rights, equality, equality, and well - being. In this respect, the Action Programme for the fourth industrial revolution of 27 teams and Iceland's policy on artificial intelligence can be identified. All changes are opportunities. As a result of self - efficiency, public service has moved closer to people throughout the country. An overhauling application procedure and waitings will be a thing of the past with the appropriate management for people and organizations, as well as for the environment. In the future, health care will be available to people around the country again, and it has actually begun. This means saving long travel, and it also saves emissions. These factors are to be trusted as we proceed from here, that the fourth industrial revolution will be in the interests of the public in the country, not on the custody of the capital as it may be expected. President. When we face the challenges faced by the fourth industrial revolution, it is not impossible to notice what Marx pointed out, that at the end of history, the machines and equipment that worked as a man would be free from the breadwork. Whether it is the future we are pursuing is entirely in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u13	A respectable president. I need to discuss matters that may be the least of the members of Congress because it's a taboo, but it's uncomfortable, but it's also serious. That's 210. a general penal law, an article forbidding pornography in Iceland, in particular production and distribution. Recently, there has been an extensive chat on the Internet on the Internet, where there has been some people working at the manufacture of products called erotics or whatever, what we call them not the main thing. People in this sex industry are affected by an attack, and a part of it is that others are hanging in the front of people in the sex industry in this legal field, 210. a general penal law. Now, perfectly normal and essential, people are talking about the possible negative consequences of pornography, both production, distribution, and consumption. It's automatic, and it's gonna need to be discussed, more dignified President than 210. the law of law is not about protecting victims or helping people out of situations where they are forced to engage in sexual immorality; nor is it about those who are willing and willing to do so. This article deals with punishing people, a dignified president. Let's be absolutely clear, it's a punishment order. It's not just a time error, a respectable president, it's affecting the interests of the same group, potential human victims, to have such an article, and, in my opinion, we should cancel it. I know it's a taboo, and it can be a tough conversation, and people are really hot when it comes to these matters and there's nothing else to be expected, and all of us will respect them. But let us be clear: It is never proper to punish victims.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u14	Mr. President. I would like to call attention to my plea submitted yesterday to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice will report to the council on how to address the rise of organized crime, which I have submitted with the Council of the Central Party. The request is requested by the secretary to submit a report on and engage in operations for the implementation of organized crime based on indication in state police reports for 2015 and 2017 and 2019. They request that the report address the following elements: Whether to increase the number of policemen investigating organized crime, whether or not the increase in passenger list analysis on border control, whether the police's research measures have been cleared or increased according to the tip of the reports. Then there is a request for a comparison of police research in this country with police resources elsewhere in the North. It is requested to determine whether or not to facilitate the expulsion of foreign persons, which become the source of crime related to organized violations. Then you will request information on how and whether police initiatives in crime control have been promoted, including with the increase of public police officers, whether or what measures have been taken to prevent international protection in Iceland, perhaps because of poor social positions, the abuse and oppression of various ways, such as man traders, or what measures are planned to take against them, and whether measures have been taken to prevent criminal organizations from misuseing public services and systems as part of their organized activities. The report states that the police feel that it is not subject to acceptable initiatives due to lack of funds, resources, and increased stress. Police are underprivileged, and there is an urgent need to increase the number of police officers. The analysis department considers organized crime to be a serious threat to society and to individuals in Iceland, apart from natural disasters. The report states that the ability of the Icelandic police to control organized crime is low. Mr. President. We must stand by the police, listen to her, and prepare her the tools needed to make her fit to ensure the safety of the city.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u15	Mr. President. Coast fishing begins May 3rd. Participation has increased in the fishing season, and in the light of the employment situation, the number of species is expected to increase during the summer. Under the Regulation, the reference to coastal fishing for 10,000 tons of cod is to be sufficient for the 48-day catchers. During the last summer, the fishing had to be stopped on August 19, where there was no means to ensure a month's fishing. I think it's very important to ensure that this 48 days out of August, and that's how it was suggested to change the system to 48 days over the summer. I challenge the highest. Minister to work on that. There is also concern about increased levels of exaggeration. Fishing has gone very well, and the prescribed fishing grounds were increased during the 2019 and 2020 by 9%. But we're creating a lot of trouble for the line-up of small boats to tug at using available fishing sources, and exaggerating sources are now closer to the ups. Almost wherever you go in cod, you catch a cod, and in some places, it is the dominant member of a cohesion. We need to act on this. There is also concern that a third decrease in line vigil for multitask boats has taken place. Today, we look forward to the fact that it has been reduced from 3,000 tons to 1,131 tons in the last two fishing years. Of course, this is a serious crisis and is causing problems for a number of local fishing and professional workers. I mean it to the highest. Minister to take a good look at these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u16	Mr. President. Since the pandemic, notes containing the proposals of a disease - control doctor have become numerous. His counsel has proved to be well - founded. Ministers of health have followed those who are expedient. If disease control laws prevent the success of his advice, the law needs to be changed. The United States has provided a bill that is expected to be discussed tomorrow. I'm counting on it. Councilmen will not prevent such urgent Covid from getting on the program, even if it's decided by a government side. We're all in this together, aren't we? And the virus doesn't ask about party cards. If the bill is legalized, the CDC will be granted permission to issue a directive that requires travellers or insulation in a government cartel if there is evidence that people's health is in imminent danger. However, a moderate measure of this should always be used, and the law should not be applied unless there are compelling reasons for doing so. The sooner we get the disease, the sooner we'll be able to lead a normal life. Vaccination and transmission materials sufficient for the majority of the population have developed antibodies for the virus. Let us not forget, though, that there will be no success without being caught in all the world's countries. The virus does not respect borders. We have to learn from other countries, look to New Zealand, and to the countries that have achieved the best results. The government has to look for ways to ease the lives of the people suffering from Covid in this country, whether in health, in social matters, or in the case of loss of employment. Let us not let the people who are struck with the privilege - blind rule. Let's give a run for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u17	V.E.G. President. If the government's will is to be built on the land, electricity costs must be real. The attempts on the equation of electrical costs to date have often been failed, and many times have failed. It doesn't need the will, but the combination of electrical energy is a bit complicated. It's a business committee discussion that's about electronic law and the establishment of Landsnet, and most people are happy about this case, and so am I. But I ask myself, " Why is this matter so late? ' That's all we can say, 15 minutes at the end of the Senate and five minutes after the election, and then this big thing will come on the program that needs careful work and probably more time to get a successful conclusion in the real world. It asks: What is the effect for users? I'm sure it will be difficult to answer that question in this bill before the council ends. As for the construction of the country, young people and people usually have to move to land, and they need infrastructures in the country and all around the country to live in harmony with the urban area. There the cost of electricity plays a major role. I call for a quality of this work, but it's time to work. But time is way too short, and I wonder what the government is making a case like this, such a big deal, is coming all too late for this council winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u18	A respectable president. Sports are a large part of the world's communities. Sports can unite many different groups and exert great influence in each community. Sports are very important to us and are one of the basis for our well - being community. We live here so well in Iceland that most of the sports movement is driven by volunteer work and is one of the keys to public health, prevention, and health of the nation. With sports, we must be on our side. Now we see national leaders around the world, last in Britain, the Prince himself, my names, and the prime minister, Boris Johnson, fighting a so - called super ward in which sports are just trying to move from this healthy group of volunteers and health to a clean ◯bissness‡. They are being transferred to be controlled by the budget. So I'm glad they're against the Super League. Now, after the great trials and challenges that Covid has brought to the Icelandic sports movement, I believe it is very important that in the efforts we have left to complete the Covid struggle that we are going to do together, we look at the sports, that our sports work is allowed to be fixed and that it is not any more to be done. We need to do so so so that the sports movement can continue as normal as possible. We need to make sure that the sports get on their feet out of Covid and that people are ready to live up to their sports companies and continue doing volunteer work by Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u19	V.E.G. President. I don't often agree with this program, but I intend to do so right now to call attention to an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning with Ásgeir Jónsson, the bank manager and Unnur Gunnarsdóttir, who is going to the SEC, where the results were considered in uniting the SEC. It is the review of the Federal Board of Directors that it has been successful and intensively supervised by the financial system. What caught my greatest attention is the attitude of the bank managers and the bank managers to the role they play, the importance of monitoring, the importance of monitoring, the importance of the guidance of the monitoring programme. It was made clear that the financial system is good and stable. Therefore, this assignment must be addressed in a way that we want to do well, and it is the best way for all of us to succeed. What a joy it was to hear the sound of the bank officials of how successful this has been!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u20	A respectable president. A financial minister recently used an example in my discussion of poverty, of the single parent's situation with two children. He believes that the changing of child development in the time of that government strengthened the position of single parents with 300,000 dollars. will make more than 100,000 dollars a month. every year. If we want to measure it in oatmeals, there are many bowls. An amazing number of oatmeals can be bought for child reform, said secretary of finance. But if a single parent, an invalid, or a unemployed parent, there is no 8,000 dollars. In a month, he doesn't buy anything for dinner. Does the government now have something to do for this small group of poor people, as financial ministers think they are? No. Is it their time? No. Why not? It is not part of the government's program to do anything for this group now. No, nothing, unfortunately. V.E.G. Last night the prime minister told me that she could list a few things, including some. Improvements for the income-priored micro-energy pensioners. She says that the government reduced the decline, reduced taxes, especially on the most industrialized group. Yes, the government dropped the tax percentage with the right hand but came and reduced the figure by the left. With that right-left-south-visual act, she took back much of the tax reduction. If she had been concerned about poor people, she would have left the personal discount alone, raised it, and paid only what she was supposed to do. Where to get the money for the very poor, the secretary of finance. He does not ask the question when he spends billions of dollars on an enterprise that pays off billions of dollars. The billions, along with the billions of dollars increase that a resource tax could pay for the government's destruction of poverty. There's the money, tops. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u21	A respectable president. In 2008, we Icelanders were truly difficult when the Icelandic banks collapsed like gambling cities. In fact, banks collapsed beyond that level because of the size of the bank in the Icelandic economy. Then, with political instability and later with the left government, much trouble began. Sigurðardóttir Sigurdirddóttir's government placed two main factors on the agenda, one on the cuts and one on the other on the European Union. I believe we've learned that both of these actions were wrong and unwise, which passed out of the crisis. Now all of the key experts have suggested that there is no way to save themselves from the Covid crisis and that the role of the government in this situation is to spit in with depositers, loans, support, and even sponsors. This has been done by the present government, and the most recent comparison of AGS clearly indicates that. Of course, the big thing is that the operation works, and that's what they're doing. It is shocking that the Parliament's group now proposes the last year's election season to dust off the UN's old proposals, which responded to the last collapse, to apply for involvement in the European Union and to adopt the euro. That motion did nothing good then, but it did not do much good. How do people think that this will be of benefit to them today? There has been no good evidence that walking in the European Union will benefit a nation beyond the EEA Convention where we will be costing internal markets but will not have to live with all the unsettled writings of Brussels.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u22	Mr. President. Last summer, the government granted 500 billion. K. the scholarship to summer studies for out - of - work jobs. It was a Covid operation, good and worthy initiative, but it was done awful. Of course, the role of the government is to implement such measures to minimize competitive damage, but instead a competitive cause. These government grants went on and on. to provide substantial training at the university's level of re-education in direct competition with private educational companies. It is crazy that governments are not aware of the damage they are already causing the job prevention due to the Covid-related meeting restrictions. By the end of March, I asked the minister of Education how these 500 million had been used, how the funds had divided between university education and re - and ever-educational university institutions. I asked if the state support would not be used to subsidize a direct competition with a private educational company offering a similar course, and whether the government granting the grant under the EFTA agency, as with other government grants, e.g. Government travel. And talking about traveling. Why wasn't that way gone? A education gift, where the free choice of customers would have eliminated the competitive influence of support? Actually, I didn't ask, but I'm doing it here. The answers have not been received from the Ministry of Education, so it is almost near to conclude that they are not yet available. But it doesn't stop the government from going the same way this summer. The change is the rise from 500 million to 650 million. Mr. President. Go away, tell some, and mean it some time, but the actions of the government here would better be described by the words: Bow well, private business away.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u23	President. I'd like to come up with something, not necessarily new but take up a case that will be discussed on the Senate Committee. At times, we have a case and take 1st. about them, then they go into a Senate committee and they're there, there's no mention of them in the Senate hall until they come back here, almost as if we were studying for a test. But I'd like to have a phone in progress and celebrate the debate over the big national torn - up business called a highland park. It is a big case that is in the Treaty, and the three government parties agreed to complete this terms when they agreed to the government covenant. As a result, some comments have been made in terms of the magnitude and degree of the situation. The Environment and Transport Committee is enforcing them in some order. Hopefully, we will work alone in a powerful way in discussing things as soon as there are other factors. As the spokesman for the case, I have had a way of doing things in many places, though, such as addiction restrictions allow, heard people, and made a point of hearing especially in the leading critics, hearing what they have to do with the matter and seeing how it is possible, and whether or not, to work together on some solution that we can share. I believe that it is possible to do so, and I look forward to a more meaningful discussion on the subject when it comes from time to time. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u24	A respectable president. The summer day will be both the first and the day of the environment. It is then ideal to pause and consider ways to reduce waste of the earth's resources, ways to increase efficiency and cooperation in the economy. Today, 50 years since crops began in Iceland, and for 30 years, forestry farmers, farmers who commit to building resources, and the share of their land under forests have grown. It is evident that forests can be cultivated here for many benefits. The financing of forest resources has been a community project that is most likely to increase the number of employment and private resources involved, including Because of carbon binding. How will we use the forest resources from farms, forests, and national forests? It is a complex task to get woody, and to get ahead of the first steps may require motivation, and unexpected obstacles may need to be removed. Two woodwork is already a private worker in the East. Others focus on the processing of wooden cards, prudence, and the processing of firewood. The other industry produces wood rims and wood stalks, and the raw materials are recycled not only by wood but also by timber and gauze. The Eastern building fund has supported the interesting development projects of these enterprises, such as the introduction of wooden bulbs to house warming in cold areas, a very interesting circuit project. A woody station that uses wood panels is now heating up the building of the River Valley Stripes. It is evident, therefore, that there is already a potential for improving the sustainability of individual settlements and, hence, society in general with the development of wood crops. How can the public encourage them to do so? What is the role of different advisers and institutions, such as the Forest Service?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u25	Mr. President. Six points of poor animal protection in Iceland: 1st Did you know that in Iceland, 15 species of birds can be fished on predefined dangers? These include the raven. The number of people has decreased greatly, but it remains righteous throughout the year. 2. Did you know that Iceland is now operating nine minutes with only 30 jobs? As a result, memory generation is of no importance to economics. However, the practice of minimization on account of their skins is a total of time error, for furs are not necessary. 3. Did you know that Iceland is one of the few European countries where horse control is practiced? Here the blood is taken from 5,000 pregnant mares to increase the fertility of pigs. 4. Did you know that Iceland is one of the few countries in the world that allows fishing on the world's secondest animal, a long shot? She's in danger of extinction, looking to a world-wheat list. 5. Did you know that the Icelandic government has authorized to hunt seals, including one of the country's farms, which are on this country in grave danger of extinction? In addition, thousands of seals have been killed each year as a component of Icelandic networks. Finally: Did you know that some 6,000,7,000 foxes are killed here every year? Wouldn't it be better to improve the blood vessel's damage directly if he gets hit by such a thing instead of killing that one original American settlers? Mr. President. To me, environmental protection is not just a matter of protecting the rocks and the growling but of protecting Iceland's infinite wildlife. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I want to be not only a member of the council but also a member of the council of animals.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u26	A respectable president. The virus always sees us and sends us the finger. We need to tighten the lines. Throughout this epidemic, we have observed government recommendations with remarkable results, so it is important that the disease - control doctors have improved to the measures he considers important to ensure life and health. It's our lawgiver to ensure this recovery as long as we can moderate. It is important that people in this country can benefit from the good results that have been obtained from the European Commission. When you put a law or a law into question, it is based on thought - provoking work. Assessment of the impact is important in this work. In a race with the virus, we must run with it and take advantage of our options. The source must be there, for we have so little time to deal with situations that arise. Freedom is wonderful, and something has been said about human rights in the treatment of disease prevention. Granted, we must be guided by all measures, but we are defending human rights by intensifying our operations on the border. Like our neighbors in Greenland, you could reduce the risk of disease prevention and meeting restrictions within the country and especially in the right way of vaccination. Throughout this epidemic, we have observed government recommendations with remarkable results, so it is important that this be done. This is our meekness, to resort to diseases on the border, is too expensive for society. Therefore, I have felt that it is important to bring relief to the Commission's houses and to have those who come to the country to be in a state of infection. We need to respond quickly. We need those bags ready. So the only reason we have to stay at the same time is if not before this terrible virus. We haven't been so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u27	Mr. President. As children, we are not fully aware of the importance of school for the future. This was certainly not true of the high - energy children growing up in Kopavagi when I was a kid, when the town was on the verge of structure, and the adults were hammered at providing for themselves and theirs. There was the number of children running their last childbearing bomb. It is only long afterward that you came to appreciate the importance of school and understood that there is power and satisfaction. In fact, it is incomprehensible how my teacher at elementary Auður, Brynja Sigurðardóttir, managed to harm us kids who were not at all easy to deal with, and attracts us to national culture, history, nature, and many other things. It has been said that a teacher should have the maximum effect and the minimum amount. Teachers lay an important basis for the future of our children and thus for society as a whole. The teachers'class have been well designed and have many outstanding teachers to command. Today, teachers are loaded with assignments, meetings and reports, as well as often intense, difficult communication with parents, who are increasingly involved in the internal work of school. Teachers do their best in a very challenging situation, but they do not overgratify their interests. Another aspect of school witnessing is the parents. Of course, I cannot help but mention their responsibility, reminding parents to spend time with their children despite their hard work. The situation in the school system differs and is changed in various ways from previous years. Many there say that the lack of discipline in school has become more and more pronounced. Children with a different language have grown greatly and the challenges of teaching have become somewhat different. So we are in a changed environment, Mr. President, but we must remain alert when we realize that the results of school work are somehow not what we would like to have. I'm just worried about the results. I'm particularly concerned about how badly Icelandic high school students come out in comparison with children in other countries. In short, PISA polls measuring the ability of students in a number of countries are going to be terrible outside Iceland. According to them, the Icelandic preschool students are free-falled and have fallen almost continuously over the last 20 years and are far below the average OECDland average. The numbers are striking, Mr. President. The same is true of mathematics and nature. The results are largely downhill, and we are in all branches at the bottom of the northern world. This alone is supposed to ring alarm bells and light a red light in the education system. So I'm glad to have a place to speak about policy at the highest level. Secretary of education and culture. It is natural to ask straight out: The Ministry Department bells ring. Minister of Education and a red light burning in her institutions? Icelandic boys'position is very serious. More than one third of Icelandic boys can't read for their benefit from basic schooling, and their places are getting worse up the school system. Today, men are just one third of those who graduate with a university master's degree, and the sex percentages in PhD are in real trouble. It is reasonable to ask: What is wrong? Over two years ago, I received a special discussion here at the General Assembly on the position of boys who drew deserved attention. There have been many who have expressed concern for me in this regard, and much discussion has developed about the position of boys in general, but perhaps especially in the school system. There is insufficient details that the school situation of boys is far from satisfying. These facts suggest that the school system lacks resources to meet the needs of boys so that they can enjoy their abilities. In this respect, we have found our way into extreme trouble and immediate relief is needed. This problem must be recognized, not only in word, but also in action. Various people have noted that the average student is not properly cared for in school, as the system is built up today, that he is left out, forgotten. All the time goes to the most important students that are most prominent in each class. What about seniors? Do they get sufficient attention and privileges? Where's the problem with the school system? Do special schools and special departments in school need to be stressed more than is now being done? Where will we react? Do you need more expertise in school; psychologists or speech pathologists? Don't they put enough funding into the system? Are they not worth enough? The result is poor. Maybe we should settle down. are we seriously ill - tempered school systems? Is a school without separate ideologies, or is the policy really possible? Is this policy too expensive to buy?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion, which is very important. I want to tell you what. The senator that one of the things we did as soon as I took this office was just looking at this difference, considering what's coming out of the international PISA probe and trying to get to the bottom of it. Why have things evolved as they have been developing? About the year 2000, I think Icelandic students were number two in mathematics and one in mathematics, and we have, of course, asked ourselves, " Why is evolution such a thing? ' What we did right away was to think, " How do we promote the education system? ' One of the things we saw was that after the teacher's program was extended, which I think was actually a very good change, there were not so many who applied to a field of education. We thought: If we are to promote the education system, we need to increase the demand for teaching and promoting every setting around our teachers. We immediately underwent reforms and put special emphasis on reading, mathematics, and natural branches. We took action to increase the number of teachers, and what has been the result? As a result, the demand for study in education fields, both the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri, has increased by 153%, which tells us that developing education is a huge responsibility. First, we will promote the teaching of powerful people, just as it is then. A senator mentioned here at the outset. It's exactly what education is based on. It is based on the fact that we are here to have an outstanding education for the rest of our life and that the education in Iceland is very desirable. That operation has worked very well. Next, I'd like to mention that we've taken many reforms, and particularly we've looked at the positions of boys and cooperated with them in order to strengthen their interest in study and see how we can more fully support the setting for them. One of the things that we learned when we worked together to make Finland and the Icelandic education system was that Finns put much emphasis on early support, i.e. If there is evidence to help with the immediate intervention of readers, not during the recent years of elementary school, but earlier. So one thing guided in a new education course is early support and early development. This is what we're doing. I want less of that, too. The effectiveness of the PISA test taken in 2016 was taken into account by a member of the Parliament at the end of the results. However, as soon as I arrived at the Ministry, we set up the Preliminaries for the Icelandic National Institutes for Math and Guidelines for Nature to promote the articles, to help achieve better results. I am very optimistic that much of the measures we have already taken will have results, in order to promote educational fields, and to increase our interest. We've put hundreds of millions in specialized operations to support our education system. We also looked forward to what Sweden has been doing, but there students were not doing well enough, and Sweden began to promote the entire development of teachers. So have we. We're improving the development of teachers with regard to mathematics, natural branches, and reading ability as well. It will be very interesting to see what comes out of all these measures, but I'm sure that all of them are designed to further our education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u29	Mr. President. The concept of a separate school was introduced into a primary school based on the United Nations Children's Covenant and the 1996 Salamanca Declaration. She assumes that a school meets every child in school and in social activities regardless of its character or position. It was originally passed into law to strengthen the position of disabled children so that they could grow and thrive within the community rather than on the edge of the disabled. It is similar to the fact that every child, boy or girl, disabled or disabled, born or imported, is unique, each child has the abilities and abilities and needs the opportunity to develop his or her skills, whether it is a book study, science, a study of work, or an art. This thought has brought a new view into school, stressing the cooperation of teachers and staff. Many schools have been successful in the variety and flexibility of teaching methods that have contributed to improved workers, both students and staff. However, governments have directly worked against these targets by overemphasis on a book - matched test where all should measure using the same meter. All of them should be cast into the same mold, regardless of strength or scope. As a result, schools have been reluctant to deviate from the line that will come for testing at the expense of primitiveity, flexibility, engineering, and artmaking. There is no doubt that to meet each child, we need to give schools more space. Above all, there is room for teachers to work after the main course of study without having their hands tied and feet chained.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u30	A respectable president. By permission of the President, the Regulation says: ▪ With school apart from separate schools, we refer to basic schools in the home or closer environment of students in which school and social needs are met by the students in the field of public education, culture, and social justice being guided. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who called for this discussion, wondered if it's just ideologies and not effective. I believe this is a beautiful and highly ideologies. It is effective, but to carry it out, we need to look to individual study. If schools are to receive everyone with different needs, teachers and staff must have room for each individual to be able to care for their own abilities. V.E.G. A minister earlier introduced his early support and importance. I'd like to take that point a little further. In recent years, I think we have overemphasized the analysis of all kinds of skills, abilities, or impaired abilities. But we may not know exactly what to do with all these diagnostics. Therefore, I think that the step in providing support from the analysis was very important to us. A respectable president. I also have to use this opportunity, since we're discussing a little bit of basic school in general, and we're referring to the reading. I find it surprising that in 2021, we are still looking to our children's speed - reading skills and reading skills based on the number of votes per minute when we know that the big matter is our children's understanding that they can read for both benefit and enjoyment. A respectable president. I want it to be directed to the highest. Ministers that we change these criteria and look at dyslexia rather than at speeds of reading. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u31	Mr. President. The verbal venerator stepped back to the PISA tests in his history. I don't think we would agree on their value because I think we should be much more concerned about whether the government's past miscommunications put too much emphasis on measurable learning results, whether through the standard tests or the PISA probes, while neglecting at the same time other factors that are important to the school community. You see, often making the student's well - being a preeminent, a traditional student's success may have to be left over. Consider a student whose parents, students, and teachers agree that most important things are that the student graduates with good confidence and good memories. Simply put, it takes turning aside from normal education in order to reach them. But it doesn't fit in the box which PISA and the standardized tests set the system. It is important for us to take up a discussion about whether a school without separating is just a declaration of policy or a real goal for the education system and especially how the Ministry can ensure that ideologies will be achieved without the command of teachers and other staff. It is possible for the school system to place the needs of each student in the foreground, whether a neuron, a disabled person, or simply not in the north. But by doing so, we build a school system for all. This requires cooperation, funding, listening to those who work in school, and being flexible is needed rather than stuffing everyone in the same box.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u32	A respectable president. It is important that our whole school system be separated, and it is important to take care of the first legal level, the elementary school, for it is the greatest formative year. All children have the right to be educated properly and within their surroundings, where this is true in order for each child to reach maturity. This requires a wide variety of methods, subjects, and circumstances, and I state that within the school, staff work on an enormous scale and the guide is to do well for all to enjoy themselves. However, it is also important to balance the availability of schools for equipment and thus support school and school activities, which are constantly developing. A sliding without separateness is based on ideological rights, social involvement, and democracy. The ideologies are part of the social rights to belong and be appreciated in the community of which the individual is part and the right to be a part of a variety of society. That is what I said in a special discussion on the same subject in 2014. In a school system that is based on this ideologies, it is important that everyone be on their basis, whether it is a student with any sort of diagnosis or education. Each child should be strengthened in his or her studies. Thus, in the same class, you can have a child with ADHD, a disabled child, and an accomplished student, as well as a group of students you can call average students. The key is for all students to meet the needs. There are several ways in which you can do this other than separate your children from school or in school, depending on your qualifications, as was done for a very long time. It is also important that we remember that it is a key to supporting highly qualified students so that they accept what is needed to study and enjoy themselves, e.g. So that students don't get to a wall when they come to college and college. Slice without separation does not mean that there should be no distinction between the needs and expectations of students. Rather, the ideologies, and the subsequent policy, that all children have every right to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for starting this discussion. In fact, I believe that we were allowed to discuss education more frequently and its subjects linked, both in political and national languages. The interests behind them and the importance for the future are as obvious to a few lawsuits. Skills without separation are important to me, and the answer to if they're capable is yes. The theme is: Just as everyone's right to be educated on their own terms. On the other hand, I sometimes wondered, " How does the policy of school without separation conflict in all cases with government policy in this regard?'Of course, it is a complicated and challenging matter. However, the range of school activities today is determined by e.g. to a core schedule. We know what that means, there are many predetermined times in each trade, which in effect means that the direction is, in a gross way, that everyone has to go. The changes in this schedule lie ahead, and I know that there is something about teachers worrying that by changing they will be the flexibility of my system to this day, and the freedom and the space of my schools to organize school activities. But when we talk about school without segregation, we must realize that each student is unique and has his own needs. Hence, schools need space, and even more space in this regard, and freedom to organize school activities to meet the needs of different students. The school system should not be so weighed down that schools cannot respond to different individual needs. Of course, there must be positions and results to be measured, and we need standards and scale, so this is always some balance between building a frame and building a flexibility. [[The president calls.]] But I wonder now, with changes in school reference schedule, when the setting will be even stronger than now, if that is the best way to achieve the ideologies of school without separation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u34	A respectable president. Without separating, a term that is often used for a ideologies that aims to avoid the random separation between individual students from their peers and even to ensure that they will be accepted into the schools they would be assigned to if they were part of the vast class of normal students. It is positive to organize school activities so that students do not show partiality according to personal study needs. We remember all the prejudices that followed the old system. Children were nominated and left out because of learning problems. Nobody wants to go back to that system. I cannot see the policy of school without separating the children's reading problems or changing that direction will solve that problem. The challenge must be solved with increased emphasis on reading, cooperation between parents, and teachers on reading and providing sufficient funds for high school so that students' special needs can be applied in a larger way. Les blindness, dysgraphia, ADHD, speech disorder, and other things have nothing to do with intelligence. On the contrary, it has been shown that those who depend on these limitations usually have a higher level of intelligence and intelligence. But where is the problem? Yeah, it's in the waiting list. Waiting lists to get on the waiting list after diagnosis or assistance. It's a terrible system that we have hundreds of children on a waiting list trying to solve their problems, and they may need to be on a waiting list for two, three years, two years, or four years, and a school - age children. It tells itself that putting a child on such a waiting list is causing the greatest harm. I'll get to that in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u35	V.E.G. President. I've been thinking about how much has changed since the person sitting here in a grade school. Things were in my mind in some way much simpler. It was only divided into A and B class, those who crossed some threshold in the school manager's opinion were put in A while the rest of the B. The fate of many for the future, for example, was attacked by dyslexia, who may have been viewed as part of a poor intelligence. She was not viewed as dyslexia, but was not able to read well and then they put him in class B. But since then, much water has flowed to the sea, and huge progress has been made. It's supposed to be a celebration. Still, we still are, and in the future we will be struggling with what we can do better. PsSA study and reading understanding have been referred to here. It has shown that the Finns are very early in these matters, and they have put in them tremendous energy, developed a course, and entered into matters of creation, capitalism, and so on. They have shown it by their very existence. Many adjustments have been made in the home, and ideas have been put forward, but they have not usually followed funding. This puts too much stress on existing teachers and staff in schools. For school students, work claustrophobics are all too common because of too much stress. The system is being changed for better reasons, but financial support is missing so that the number of employees in schools can be increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u36	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for starting this discussion. V.E.G. The minister, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir, gave a clear review of her priorities when she accepted the Ministry and the procedures and their achievements. She noted that Finland and Sweden had especially been seen as well as about certain things. The one standing here has a seat in his head. The General and Education Committee and we have recently supplied a Minister's resolution for Education, which some have already mentioned. It was fascinating to look into that subject and many of it at times. Senators have said here today I can agree, e.g. With our emphasis so far, it's the speed of reading. Of course, the emphasis should be on reading understanding, I agree with that, and perhaps also on the increased flexibility of school directors to meet the different needs of the students because we all agree that it is necessary to meet this diverse group that we are, yes, children and adults, so that the goals of school are met. I'd especially like to mention three things. I can see that time is just running away from me. First of all, the tests for development. It was noted by the Committee that tests for development have not been updated and that new knowledge has been renewed for a long time. There is no lack of development tests, but it provides the basis for evaluating any kind of support students need in the early stages. This, of course, overlaps with our early support. Also with regard to study tools, renewal and updates, we could do better there, for example. in the digital version of study aids.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u37	A respectable president. In the school system, children were eventually divided into tossa and bossa. I don't think anyone misses that time. The main thought is behind a school without separating that each child is special and has special qualities that need to be drawn out and that the person will grow to be the person who is able to grow up as the person that all the matter stands for or that it can become. It is a huge project, and of course, according to our circumstances and circumstances, it varies. But that is because it is the rights of each child and not just the rights of each child but the legal rights of each child, as defined in the United Nations Children's Covenant. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The participation of disabled children on the basis of what is best for one child in work and play with other children, not just at their own corner, is not merely progressive for the children of the opposite kind but is of little more beneficial value than getting to know each other's diversity, learn how to deal with, live in it, and learn how to deal with different people with different needs. There is another matter, however, how we are able to provide our children with the education they have rights and is the key to having a good society here. A similar test is not a good idea because children are incompatible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u38	A respectable president. Here we are in a large and important discussion about the system and the position of different groups and the circumstances within it. Slice without separation, it may not be the right name for all of these groups, but it can be said that what these groups always have in common and can be discussed out of school without separation, that it is a bit of a choice, and that it is equal to learning and circumstances. Without separating it completely, there is the right to ensure this equality, so if the student sees his best pay in school without separating, he certainly should have a choice to use his strengths, live with this social mixture, and it is also good and mature for other students to experience diversity and so on. But it is important that special schools are also choice on the same basis, so it can be more suitable for other children to be in special schools and thus enjoy their best interests, so that caregivers and children need this choice: what works best for each other. But this must also be for other groups mentioned in this discussion; young boys, middle students, immigrants, and such. There's a little work to be done, e.g. Based on individual motivations, not everyone in the same form is allowed to enjoy and experience his study as best possible and to get the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u39	Mr. President. We've been in the discussion here over a wide range of aspects of the diversity, of diversity, which, of course, is present in the school community, such as in other parts of the community. Hv. The saying went away e.g. the position of boys in the school system. It is important to discuss the different positions of the sexes because we want all sex to get along well in the school system. There are also the feelings of girls in school. She's worse than boys, possibly because they're burning out trying to fit in a system that doesn't suit their needs. Not to be overlooked are the gay children and the passing of our children, who often struggle with feelings of great distress at school. Then there are children who have other or more mother languages. For children to develop in their own language, they need extra help with the school system. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Education had its shortest efforts to increase the number of teachers in order for boys to have more models, the question might be asked: What is the key to increasing the number of teachers with a second language and enabling them to even work on their native language within the school system with children who have that language? With all these complexitys, schools need more people and increase funding to care for them. Regardless of gender, diagnosis, or mother tongue, teachers and managers must have the opportunity to create an environment where all can thrive and develop on their own terms, in accordance with motivation and ability.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u40	A respectable president. As we have seen, analysis shows that some boys are getting worse at school here, and in fact, the story is similar in many Western countries, but as here was rightly foretold at the same time as for girls. They have many problems, and all the others, and especially those students who do not have Icelandic in their first language, they often have difficulty in raising, as well as those with various kinds of disability or impairment. I agree with the approach to reading to benefit myself. That is the most important thing for all of us. It is worth remembering that a part of the UN Convention on the Rights of Infirm People is about people having the same access to all schools without separating. The purpose is included. to increase respect for the variety of human lives and to ensure everyone's human right to develop and that their creation and abilities will be enjoyed. However, there is a need to increase support within the system and increase variety, especially for disabled students, especially at the end of high school. But then we also need a choice, e.g. of a special school where not everyone thrives within the standard elementary school, if it can be used word, and needs specific support. But all told me that it is important in this context to consult with disabled people's organizations about how we make our system even better. We should not forget that these laws did not develop in a void. Rather, they have a wide - scale discussion that led to a school without separation, not least the most important interests for those with disability. A respectable president. Much of the evidence used against school without separation assumes that class systems are having negative effects in this context. In this context, there are a number of cases where students choose high school based on whether there is a class system or an even stage system that is not suitable for all. Our system is fine, and we have a lot in the railing, and we don't have to start from scratch. But there are many things that we need to build and to do even more. All school work is and should be on a continuous review and development to be done on a professional basis so that all factors and decisions are always looked forward to and taken on the basis of present circumstances and future vision. [[The president calls.]] But, a respectable president, our ultimate goal must always be that we live, learn, and work together in a community without separation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u41	Mr. President. I believe that our education system should be organized with confidence in the teachers and the school directors, that we create these professionals a fine frame and solid setting but with space and freedom to apply their professional knowledge. School directors and teachers have used this freedom to create a learning environment suitable for their students. These students know their needs, but at the same time they know where their skills lie. Of course, there are a wide variety of students in each school and between schools. The schools, therefore, need space to deal with them so that they can serve as fully as possible and contribute to their growth. We want stability in our education system and firmness but at the same time a measure of freedom. In this discussion of school without separation, I would point to the growing number of students as a second language. Commenting on the academic policy of the Ministry of Education to 2030, it was noted that the chapter on equal occasions for all needed to form an explanation of how it would be done to ensure the equal opportunity for students of foreign origin and students who have English as another language and how we could contribute to equal opportunities and read, for example. in this group of children. Our school should be designed to provide opportunity and to counteract separation by ensuring children's access and participation in the community through the language. We're going through a lot of social changes. Again, I would like to mention what I learned in my first speech, that review of the study schedule needs to reflect these changes. [[The president calls.]] There must be a view of all the skills called remaining and that we think far beyond the framework. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u42	A respectable president. Last PISA study showed that one third of 15-year-old boys do not achieve their baseline reading skills. Girls, 18.7%, have a lower proportion but are far from ideal. It is important to deal with school seniors' reading problems, especially with boys. No doubt some of the reading problems of Icelandic children are attributed to changes in circumstances, technologies, and increased access of children to audio and video material from an early age, most commonly in a foreign language. This should not, however, prevent us from achieving the same results as that of neighboring nations when it comes to reading ability. What Are the Benefits? For those who are being harassed at school and who fail to achieve their reading skills or who can read for their benefit, we see the consequences, unfortunately. The result is a broken sense of identity. School psychologists and speech pathologists and waiting lists. The situation today in ADHD analysis, and the rest is that those with money get past the list. 600 children on the waiting list for speech pathologists, hundreds of children waiting to get on a waiting list for analysis. The result in the future is that these individuals, broken individuals, land on the system, become invalid, become dependent on alcohol, drugs. We need only to understand how many individuals, boys especially, are in prisons to see what the consequences have been to those who have escaped from the school system and have had it. Therefore, we should focus on dealing with this problem because the benefits of these individuals are tremendous and also the benefits of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u43	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Councilmen who spoke up during the discussion. An interesting point was made there. Some people are e.g. versus measures of success, vs. testing, and likely just want to rush into aimlessness. True, it takes much courage to criticize our school systems and to apply themselves for review and for the highest degree. A minister may also need much courage to acknowledge that we are on the wrong path. The result is poor. Students are no worse than decades ago. Teachers are no less capable of teaching than they were before, probably only better, and I agree with the highest degree. Minister. It may be more important to increase respect for the teachers'work, but the main factor there is the salary and salary. Hence, it is not surprising that many people feel that something is wrong with the system we are working on, how we keep our mind on matters, and how the school system is organized. Of course, the education system, Mr. President, as well as the time and energy of students, teachers, parents, and all those who work in it. Hence, we need to demand success, and if it does not manifest itself, we need to turn away from the wrong course. In Western islands, a very interesting project begins with the name Starts the spark that attempts to reverse this trend and to create a spark of study among children, to have passion, to put more emphasis on movement, and to read seriously. The job is based on evolutionary and research projects according to the best science. But there are other ways to go, Mr. President. In my first talk, I mentioned that there may be more emphasis on special schools and special departments in school. It is not in opposition to a school policy without a separate route.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u44	A respectable president. The Icelandic education system operates on the ideologies of education without separating or education for everyone. Like what? Senators are aware that this policy has been legalized on the land, and in my opinion it is effective. How vital it is that we take care of all children and provide equal opportunities! We know that more support is needed earlier in the school system, so the work we've been doing has been more important than focusing on picking up our children earlier and strengthening all the setting around our teachers. How have we progressed? We've done quite well because one of the things we see in the school system is that there's a lot of good in Icelandic children. It separates us from many other educational systems, that our children are well. I believe that if a child feels well, we will increase the chance that the child will find him and that he will choose a suitable study and have confidence in it. So I think we're on the right track when we say that we want education for everyone and that we don't have a separating point. However, we need always to have the possibility of looking for the training that is appropriate and that will sustain the education system indefinitely because it is so that the nations that invest in education will be much better. I also think at this time of Covid, it's the best thing we do to invest in the education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u45	Mr. President. I scratch a little over the fact that this opportunity has not been used to immediately establish the Community's bill on changes to the treatment laws and try to see if the case could move forward. This could have been arranged as early as possible after the order had been given, if that had usually been arranged. Now I don't know if the President has any kind of pats because the government plans a twin bill that will be introduced at a press meeting in Hörpa later, God let it go. I hope this is so because we are in a situation where we have no time to waste. Each hour is important in making decisions about the steps necessary for this nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-20-81.u46	A respectable president. I'm very happy that this good thing has finally come to this place and it seems like everyone here is on the green button. There has been much solid solidarity in the council as we have been doing this fine work. Thank you very much, very much. Financial and economic ministers, for your progress. But I suppose one member of this hall is particularly pleased, why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, who is the founder of this case since 2013.
