ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u1	There have been letters received from the Ministry of Education and Culture where the request is made to provide written answers to panels. 867, with the support and special training of elementary schools, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's Daughter; on a threshing floor. 986, on registration of communications in the Ministry, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; on a threshing floor. 1020, on the basis of the impact and grounds of the appeal of the violations of equality, from the Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir of Gunntildóttir; on the icicle. 1027, the Icelandic studies of immigrants, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's Daughter; on a threshing floor. One hundred and seven advisers, contractors and temporary projects, from Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and on deck. 1232 of the smokers'gardening program, from the son of Ari Trausti Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u3	President. During the past week, there have been relentless air attacks on Gaza. The Israeli army has killed at least 214 people, 58 children. It is a continuation of conditions that have gradually worsened since the end of World War II, while the international community has been passively embarrassed by the horrors and deaths of tens of thousands. No longer surprising is the fact that the modern government of Israel uses every opportunity for violent and violent reactions to Palestinians, all of which are part of the government's strategy to take over the land of Palestine, to drive them into flight and take possession of their territory. President. Only cohesive and loud pressure from the international community can possibly thwart governments' plans that ignore human life. That means the governments of all countries, including Iceland, have to take the initiative and have the courage to express themselves against war crimes, express themselves against the killing of children, and strongly protest genocide. What's the government going to do? Prime Minister on this matter? What action should be taken in her view?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. We're gonna go for a second. A senator completely agrees that this is a terrible situation. Like what? In fact, over 200 people have lost their lives to Palestine on the side of Israel, with a considerable reduction in the number of them on the side of it, or about 200. Ten, according to the news. The victims of these attacks are citizens, women, and children. It is absolutely clear from the Icelandic government that these actions are illegal, that are contrary to international law, international humanitarian rights, and that we have described our stand. V.E.G. Secretary of State had a telephone meeting with Norway's foreign minister this weekend, but Norway is on the United Nations Security Council for which these matters have been discussed. Our stand is clear: Honoring international law and attack by civilians is totally unacceptable. We have also reminded ourselves that Iceland has recognized the independence of Palestine, and the solution to this conflict must be based on a solution of two states. The attitude of the government of the United States is at hand. Hv. A senator says: We need a solid national solidarity. I think we can agree on that. This is one of the situations in which we have seen several attempts to find solutions but not succeed. But I will, in any case, take advantage of this opportunity as I meet with the U.S. Secretary of State tomorrow and the Russian Foreign Minister on Thursday and adopt these matters and encourage these countries to use themselves internationally to achieve a peaceful resolution on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u5	President. I can't help but answer the highest. The secretary of state in the past few days, what we have seen in the media, seems to be doing nothing unless someone else does it first. That's what we're seeing. There are many words to be heard, but this is a matter of action, and we can set a fine example even if other nations are not ahead of us. We can lead the way. I just ask, "What is such a lack of attitude other than a perfect coward? Similarly, VG's panel has issued a declaration of some kind this weekend in which Israel's conquest policy is condemned, well and well, but prime minister's seminars are empty talk compared to the actual actions that the head of the Iceland government could set in motion if he really wanted to. The Congress party of Pirata will submit a synopsis, where the Allied Council will have the opportunity to condemn treason and assault by the government of Israel on the civilian population of Palestine. [[The president calls.]] So I ask the highest. Prime Minister whether she feels that she can support that interpretation proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u6	Mr. President. Me and my movement are putting such issues as these being resolved in the United Nations. Therefore, we have been applying ourselves to the fact that the people we are most in contact with within the Norwegian government have our stand on the record and that they are totally concerned about who they are. Iceland recognized the independence of Palestine and was among the first states to do so. Actually, I was in a government when it was done, just to recall it to the why. A senator who calls for action. Iceland's position on Israel's illegal conquest is absolutely complete, and it has been repeatedly introduced internationally. It is my opinion and evaluation of the government that the United Nations Security Council is the right setting to deal with these issues. That's what I'm gonna have to say to the State Minister of both the United States and Russia about these matters because it is important that this is solved in the world's realms where the world's nations have agreed that there should be a stage to look for solutions in such complex matters as this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u7	A respectable president. I would like to emphasize that we are to take a clear stand for human rights. We are to take a clear stand against nations as harvesters of other nations, and especially today's attack on civilians, as we experience between Israel and Palestine. The life and safety of millions depends on the availability of arms interruptions between Israel and Palestine. We can pressure them to do so, and we can exert ourselves in many parts of the international community. But we must not have it so that we hide behind it to be a little off from our own ideals and ideologies. During the weekend Israel's actions on Gaza, a group of green Christians condemned the use of power, repeated conquests, and exodus of Palestinians from their homes. I hope this isn't just some sort of penalties 'cause I don't think it's clear when it comes to these matters. It is clear that Israel has a supreme position against Palestine, both in military power and in economic support from foreign countries. In my opinion, Iceland simply cannot sit by when it comes to human rights violations, wherever they are in the world. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the position of the prime minister and its government? I'm not asking her as president of the left green because there's clearly another attitude. What's Iceland's official position? In fact, Iceland's official position can only be taken two, that's the government and then the Allied Parliament, according to the case of foreign officials. Secondly, I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will she adopt these issues at her meeting later in the week with the U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, who is also one of Israel's most supportive nations? Will it tell Blinken that the Icelandic government sets the example of Israel's attacks on Palestine?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Iceland talks for human rights all over the world. It is part of our foreign policy whether we are equal to the sexes, human rights in wars, or peaceful solutions. We speak for human rights, and we speak for peaceful solutions. Because of what? The senator encourages us to do so, I allow me to say that we do, and that is what I will do at my meetings with Blinken and Lavrov. It will, of course, discuss the affairs of the north, but there I will adopt these issues as well. How important it is that these countries immediately resort to arms interruptions and subsequent peaceful solutions! I don't mean to pretend to have a solution for these decades, but there won't be a solution unless there's an immediate ceasefire. There, António Guterres has taken a very clear stand, and I agree with it. Because of the attitude of the government of the United States, it is the position of the government of the United States. A senator asks about it, has been made clear. International law should be respected, and civil attacks are a violation of international law. They are unacceptable, and the casualties we see in this conflict are primarily among the civilian population. Therefore, there must be a cease - fire, and then, of course, the need to find long - term peaceful solutions. But we also know that this conquest is not new, it has lasted for decades, and it is illegal. That's Iceland's attitude too. I think that's what we're talking about. Senators don't have to question Iceland's position on these matters. We are here to speak for international human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u9	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll join the highest. Prime Minister, the voice of Iceland is very important. We stand in human rights, and we speak loudly and clearly, whether it is our friends' people or someone else who will go against civilians in a way that, for example, does. The Israelite army is now doing today. It matters, and it also matters that we speak with a loud voice for a peaceful solution, for the cease - fire, no matter where we step down. That is why I ask, "What will be the highest form of action? " Prime Minister will address the U.S. Secretary of Foreign Affairs Antony Blinken when he arrives here this week? Will Prime Minister speak for the resolution of a council of the Left Green, or will it speak for the government of Iceland? This needs to be clear, because there's an important difference. What's bad about our foreign policy now for the past 3 to 4 years is that it's relatively blurred on chapters, because we know it's a focus difference, and a lot more than that, on government categories, and it's nice to have that in mind. Therefore, it is important that the prime minister speak clearly to the U.S. Secretary of State and example. An Israelite army's attack on Palestine is a violation of human rights. I'm the highest. Minister to speak clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u10	Mr. President. I can assure you what. A senator that I will speak clearly from now on. I have used all my international opportunities to speak for peaceful solutions. What I will take up with the fine men here are measuring in order that these countries, so important in the international community, will take advantage of first, and second, for some kind of long - term peaceful solution. Of course, now people are dying, civilians, men, women, and children. But until arms interruption is reached, no one can sit on what basis to build peaceful solutions. There the position of the Icelandic government, not just a council of the left green, is clear. Icelandic governments have acknowledged the independence of Palestine. It is the position of the Icelandic government and the government that the solution to the future is based on two political solutions. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I think these attacks are completely unacceptable. [[The president calls.]] It is a violation of international law, and that is our clear stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u11	A respectable president. V.E.G. On March 31, 2020, the prime minister said in an interview at RUV, with the permission of a president: It is quite clear that our priorities will be to protect people's positions from these setbacks according to the ways in which they are effective. On May 5 of the past, the International Hags Association issued a challenge to the government to keep up with its promises to protect homes from the effects of inflation. By permission of the president, the Association declared: It is important to note that while many have fled the insurance policy in recent months, this is not possible at all. These are just the worst of all, those who cannot escape inflatable rent or mortgages. They are not justified in paying the highest price because of a condition they are not responsible for. It is totally unacceptable that the impact of this situation on the security of the household's loans could in the future, because when the insured loans have even increased, they will not be reduced again. This is exactly one of the biggest failures in the insurance policy. Homes are dying forever because of temporary increases in in in inflation, while creditors gain long future benefits from this same temporary increase. Intensification has increased staticly and consistently in recent years and is now approximately 4.6%. Then in the United States, in the United States, inflation has begun and is also measured by 4.6% but has not been so much since September 2008. We must act immediately before the inflation rises further. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What will this government do now only a few weeks left of the legislature to protect the land's homes from inflation? And why does the highest possible support? Would not Prime Minister's prime call to temporarily place a roof on the insurance mortgage and forbid such loans?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. She began by quoting my comments that we would try to spare people the setbacks that would come from the epidemic, and I must say this here that it has truly been done. I'm not going to take all the time to list all the activities involved in meeting those who have lost their jobs by extending the period of income - related unemployment benefits, raising unemployment rates, raising child - care benefits, and meeting people with highly social resources to support them through this epidemic. It has truly been our guide right from the very beginning to support people through this difficult time, and it has been ours. I have no doubt that all of these actions have resulted in less contractions than expected, and I have no doubt that all of these measures will cause us to turn around very quickly as already indicated. We'll see that this is it. Businesses are hiring people, the government's campaign starts work, making it possible that people who have been long out of work are starting to qualify for jobs. It is true that the development of inflation has been a concern. However, forecasting that in recent years, inflation is more likely to occur and the latest projections are expected to decline from month to month. Let's see if it's going to work. What has led to inflation is for housing and on the other hand, food prices. I would like to say with regard to the real estate market that we've been dealing with some big, big, big, big, big, big, big, open-up problem. However, much is being built now and more in those years, but it has been done for a long time to face this volunteer problem. It is very important that the actions we have taken during this period make us more stable in a housing market, since this fluctuated housing market is difficult for many, affecting not only inflation and securities, but also in rent - rent markets where just many of the busiest are and have everything under the rent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answer, but happiness knows that I was not asking about all the genius the government has been working on in this Covid epidemic. I was merely trying to substantiate the home mortgage on the loan of a huge increase in their head position and in view of the fact that inflation has nearly doubled compared to the Sensitian prices criteria. For fun, though it's just no fun, I'm going to go straight to the United States, it's quite incredible, everybody knows that if the American economy sneezes, it gets an Icelandic cold and the inflation in the United States has increased no more or less since April 2020 from 0.3 to 4.6%, and from now on in March 2.6% to 4.6. This is a huge concern, and that's why we're telling people that they're worried sick. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers again, since they are doing so much for everyone: Why, on the other hand, the government does not immediately take over the homes and do something to prevent the rise in the level of securities due to the inflation caused by this pandemic and to suffer as much damage as it looks? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u14	Mr. President. I went back here over the prospects for inflation, and we also have to look forward to the predictions that are currently displayed by the crown's granting to reduce inflation and that the maintenance of the travel service, which we can be reasonably optimistic in relation to the situation, will also support these developments, so I think it is important to look for developments in the months ahead of us. I want less of that, too. The senator is here at Congress is a government bill on growth and price insurance that aims to set limits on 40 years' worth of loans. It would be wish that jobs could be completed on the bill, which was part of our declaration in connection with biographies. As we examine how these issues have been developing, the trend has been that there has been a targeted cut-off of insurance on a domestic loan market. More people will choose disloyal loans. It's a positive change in insurance. This bill is in here, and it can be completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u15	Madam President. A new sentence due to the landing of a helicopter within the Horn Beach Peace Land has attracted attention. It is now restricted, as stated in the EEA regulations, to both fly and land helicopters within the reservation, except for the permission of the EEA. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he and his people have paid attention to this judgment and whether with this acquiesc may be necessary to sharpen legal requirements in this regard. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on how his ministry and agencies intend to comply with the rules that over 50 passengers can land on the Horn Coast at one time. Now it's been announced that a cruise ship will be traveling around Iceland. It's been flying for the fact that these ships set up for passengers and more than 50 that are reserved in the regulations established by the EEA. The two questions are: Have the highest. Ministers and his people took note of the recent act of justification and there are reasons to reinforce legislation? How do ministers and his people plan to ensure that no more than 50 passengers will be taken ashore on the Horn Coast at once?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u16	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. Because of this, there is a legal acquiescation. There's something we'll look at at at the Ministry, but I don't have the answer to what this means exactly as the situation is now. Then there is the other question that has to do with new rules about the maximum number of people who can come to a country of peace from cruise ships. They are based on a new management and protection programme designed for the peaceland, and a great deal of work has been done. She was won by the parties there, i.e. Landowners and locals. So I expect there to be an effort to follow in a way that involves working natural land prices and thinking about whether other people will have to come to this, which will guarantee that after this will be taken care of. It's also an educational duty. Hence, it is likely to be directed directly to those on these cruise ships that this is the climax and is recommended to try to follow it as far as possible. In fact, it's a call from the people in that area, landowners, to try to limit the number of people causing considerable trouble, as I have understood the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers, although not enough. I encourage him to pay attention even now to this judgment and see if action is needed. But because of the highest. A minister quoted an action program for this area in 2021 where a review of a number of walkers, a review of reported regulations, and an assessment of the local land guard needs. Since these three points are directly related to what I asked earlier, I would like to ask the highest. Whether this scheme to be implemented in 2021 is implemented and if not, then it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u18	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this. I'm not in the exact place where that job stands. We have over 120 peace - declared territories in Iceland, so it is difficult to be involved in individual affairs. I think that would be the best thing to do. A senator would be allowed to meet people at the EEA for this matter in particular. No doubt that's an easy thing to do. That, however, is a very important matter. This is because it is a matter of trying to balance some kind of balance in how people in the land of peace are affected by the natural environment and also in balance with the people who live in the area. I think it's good regulations that were set up in a management and protection programme and I hope that this work is going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u19	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A little on the subject of the University of Arts in Reykjavík, at the age of 75. I know that the minister is well aware of the value of art studies, both for the individuals they practice and for the whole community, and for both the creation of valuables not measured in crowns and pennies, as well as for creating valuables that will be measured in crowns and ants, because in many parts of the world, creative and artistic thinking is a key to solving many of the day's tasks. Young people in this country are not well educated in art. For years now, the 75 - year - old art school in Reykjavík has been accepted in the community and has met with assignments and obligations. However, contributions to the school have not increased for many years. They've been standing in place since the collapse. In effect, the University of Arts in Reykjavík was left in the collapse of the authorities. Cipheric interpretations of EU tenders have led the school to appear to be at risk for the contributions it receives if not entirely in the European Economic Areas then, at least Here on land. Yet last December, the EFTA Court's sentence in the matter of High School of Education and Culture for the education of high school provided by national education was not considered to be service in the understanding of the EEA Convention, and the educational contracts are therefore not official services. I'm asking the highest. A minister whether she intends to put forth the effort to ensure that school will be an acceptable basis for business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is clear that we have put great emphasis on culture and education throughout this terms. We've seen increases in high school and university. We have seen increases in research and development, and we have worked hard to ensure that there is a high - quality education all over the country. In particular, I make it clear that Reykjavík's art school has done a tremendous job. We've been making deals with the School of Arts, to form a picture about the fact that disabled persons can come into school, and have been promoting it as much as possible. Of course, we always keep an eye on our next budget. But I just want to reiterate. A senator that we have put great emphasis on education and culture throughout the epidemic, kept the emphasis as possible, and we will continue to pursue and expand high school education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u21	A respectable president. The government has placed great importance on education and culture, and I will not challenge it. Yet, today the state does not have a school comparable to that of the Arts School in Reykjavík. Reykjavík's art school has specific responsibilities and responsibilities. He fills, or fills, a certain hole, that the Kingdom does not. Among other things, this school prepares for art studies at the Art Institute. Hence, it is the State's duty, and especially the government, which places great emphasis on culture and art, to enable these schools to live and work. [[The president calls.]] So I'd like to reiterate my question and ask the highest question. A minister whether she intends to put forth the effort to ensure that school will be an acceptable basis for business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u22	A respectable president. As I've tore up here, we've been raising money to high school. We've seen a huge attendance on everything related to a practical study, and we were accepting a college access law. What am I saying with this answer? Yes, we are, of course, stressing art. We have had a good discussion at the Arts School in Reykjavík, and we have a keen desire to support further education in the country. We're very proud of our high school program, how it's all worked out. We see that both school directors and teachers have put their arms around the situation. We will continue to emphasize all art studies as we have been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u23	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation to a so - called November convention written by Reykjavíkurburg and the State in November 2019, i.e. Mayor and Secretary of Transport. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has this agreement been prepared? Is it the understanding that the agreement has been done well? Since this agreement, an organization has begun at the Sberland, and the organization has gone a long way. The Dutch Space Science Agency has examined the impact of this policy based on wind extracts and has made comments on this, serious comments on safety. Then I'd also like to ask about the effects of a natural disaster in Gedingad salaur on the ideas of an airport in Haksundun. Do these jobs have any effect on this agreement? Now, according to our estimated geographers, there are now some of them that can last for the next 200 to 300 years, based on the experiences 800,100 years ago. Is it not true, then, that these events can have a significant impact on the development of this matter, and is it not best to take this organization from the State to protect the interests of the nation, not to harm the course as long as it is considered in its entirety? Also, just at the end of the first part of this inquiry, I would like to ask questions about projects at a new airport in Reykjavík. What is the situation at this point? Now it's been delayed in the process as we've been seeing in the past few months, going slow. This terminal is a natural national disaster, we all see it as a national disaster today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. Of course, for a senator to see that the station at Reykjavík's airport is by no means acceptable, nor has it been for a long time. With regard to this work related to Reykjavík's airports, views on possible other airports, and especially in Washinge test, it works all in its proper place in the light of this agreement from November 2019 onward. In that agreement, the New York State Airport will remain unchanged and must not be affected, it must be guaranteed, until there is another better or just as good ground to be found elsewhere. Part of that assignment was the consideration of Whalesun. We're expecting a risk assessment, hopefully that'll go on at the end of this year. It's certainly quite a business in Iceland's Weather Service, which had been signed to reevaluate that risk. Of course, everyone observing the news on a daily basis sees that there are geologic shocks on Smokejanes, and we don't know everything, but we do know, from historical sources and information from our geologic scientists, that it is likely that they will be able to stand on certain occasions until a long break from them. To me, it might be unwise to take on great projects while such a crash takes place. To accomplish this, we have been stressing how to fix and rebuild the situation at Reykjavíkur Airport, the airport. According to the information we have from an Air Iceland Connecticut, once called at least, as well as from a conversation with the people at Reykjavík City, it is likely to be granted. The Ministry of State, the Department of Transport, and Istavia have been with a group of employees, and they have had discussions with others. Icelands for buying the tools and relics that are there to be able to do this work. It's in a process of action, and I hope there can be some news about it soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u25	Mr. President. This month there are ten years, a decade, then the VAT price was taken off in Iceland. Then, from the system alone a billion a year to make investments in our country's flying system, especially the international flying system. At that time, 1,500 million went to the current cost of 350,4400 million. During this brief period of time, the number of billions has gone out of this system. There was a warning at a committee meeting, of the pilots of the Air Base, that this would be done and booked. How will we handle this great assignment? Nothing's been done for ten years to defend this. We've only been dealing with this through the budget, but the system hasn't dealt with the problem. What happened was that the price of a second flight was vanished into the terminal in Keflavík instead. This has damaged the flight security of the country and the structure of the airports. [[The president calls.]] How, though, will we tackle this sad picture? The flight is about to complete and need the full structure of the airports.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u26	A respectable president. Yeah, it's an interesting birthday. You're right next door. A senator said that when this price was taken, there were times when the other portion of our international system, which is an airfield, would not be properly financed, and it is true. A little has been done, but I'm not gonna say anything because we've done a lot in recent years. We've been building up at Reykjavík, and we've been talking about it just a few minutes ago in connection with an air station and securing the path. We've done quite a bit of a job at Akureyri, with an expansion of airports, airports, and other things, and there's also a plan that Eel's airport will become our primary final airport. The Congress has discussed the wisdom of laying on the price of a second flight price, and it has been done by the Ministry of Flights. That's the most reasonable way. It was missed in Covid because the problem did not improve. Actually, we put it on 11,000. a fee, which was not any backup charge, last year, and it did not seem to disturb people so that a hundred k. The price of a second flight rate, which we could set up right here and now, would guarantee enough money to build up the international airport, and I will work on it as far as this is concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u27	President. It's about to happen. two months since I sent a query to the highest level. Secretary of Education and Culture on state grants for summer studies. I asked how they cost 500 million dollars. had recently decided by the government to pursue a university during the past year so that students could be offered up for summer studies. This was a Covid-related operation. I even asked. whether it had been under the government that this Kingdom strength was not used to subsidize a direct relationship with a private educational firm offering a comparable course. The request has not been answered in two months. I'm going to assume that it is not because of the ambiguous nature of the inquiry but because of embarrassing answers, because news is now being received that the second year is due to granting such government grants, and the second year in a row, the State Colleges have begun to advertise a course of bankruptcy, or for 3,000 k. to a maximum, live competition courses with private educational programs. I wondered, " Is my lack of response connected with the lack of interest in the left green, independent party, and forwarding party on the business careers? ' Mr. President. I would like help with these answers from the highest level. Secretary of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u28	Mr. President. I also ask for the assistance of a president, but for a more serious case than an unsatisfactory inquiry, because my opinion is to violate the will of the Council when a clear body of Congress is ignored for years. Two years ago, we agreed that the United Nations Convention was due to legalize the rights of disabled people and what is more, and it is extremely clear, here the Ministers, the Government, were to provide a bill, and there was no choice. I'd like a team president, especially in view of what came out of the General Court, which says: To the authority of the administration court, Generalis conclusions are included. Their recommendations, directed to the government, are binding on the government on the basis of the Constitution. How could anyone possibly think that the executives, the executives, could simply ignore Congress on request? The system doesn't work that way. The Ministers are the executives. They are to abide by the law and to stand by the side of the council. This has been pointed to by scholars for years. [[The president calls.]] I'd like an answer from the President of the Generals. Has there been a change in this matter, or will the president make it clear that the Council's will is made clear, that he is a respected and bill of the legal agreement made by the United Nations on the rights of disabled persons in this room?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u29	The President stands at the council's rights, and he enters for answers, etc. But the president points out that there is a problem. Parliaments have many opportunities to have such conversations at the highest level. An intermediate minister, and not necessarily have to pass through a president with that, e.g. if there is a delay in reply from counsellers as a quilt on the same day, the reply in unsubstantiated queries is expected. Then it should be used as an opportunity for the Ministers. [[Take it forward: unless you're prepared to make room.]] - The President can do what he can do, but no more than that. The President cannot make sure that the entire national administration and its label are in perfect shape.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u30	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ágústsson Áugustsson Everyone in this room, everybody. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers must agree that the execution of the authority will carry out what the council has authorized to do. But wasn't it, Mr. President, that this government specifically spoke of promoting the Council in its cooperation agreement? But she cannot comply with the will of the council when guaranteeing the rights of disabled persons. This is a very serious matter, Mr. President, and it is only natural for members of Congress to call for assistance from a president in such a case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u31	Mr. President. I think the President of the Generals is something more than just a conference manager at some sort of speech meeting. This is serious. I quote here in a legal opinion from the General Assembly, which makes it very clear that Congress decisions are binding on the government. Here, the President of Generalis also says, by permission of the President: It is also the conclusion of this summary that the government, or according to the cases of an associate minister, should take the initiative to inform the Council if she does not intend to follow its conclusions. It hasn't happened. That's serious. Here are thousands of disabled people and their families who have hoped that this step will be taken to the full. We have decided to take this step, and all of us would grow in order to complete this legalization. We would improve the life and human rights of the group of people whom we are to think about most of all. That's why I don't understand why it hasn't been done. There's been enough time. It's been two years since we agreed on this council resolution, so I don't understand why the government doesn't bring up this bill or at least. some explanations. President. For the sake of Christ's sake, you were now applying the terms of Congress, which are essentially the declaration of the council's will. Even if it was not more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u32	President. I just wanted to come up and point out that out of the 16 queries Pirats have proposed and wait for the answers we've been doing, 13 of 16 have fallen at a time, which we should have had the answers to. This suggests that something may not work exactly as it should. It can hardly be, Mr. President, that every time we meet with a group of councilmen, we need to get answers to our inquiries. There must be some process or system that works to provide answers on time. President. The answer is not to extend the time the Ministers have to answer questions. There's got to be a way to fix this thing so that it doesn't work without us having to push in counselers all the time to get the answers we have the right to get.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u33	Mr. President. I just want to say what I want. paritaprevir Ágúst, son of Ólafur of Ágústsson, said that a president is using himself. The president rightly pointed out that we can have an intermediate conversation with a minister, and that has what to do. A senator indeed did; he has called for this, good if not repeated. When nothing happens, you must wonder what options we have. V.E.G. The President is now our deputy at the executive council. While this strange setup here in the councilroom may deceive people - he should perhaps be our side or the Ministers elsewhere - I think we must somehow ask for the Supreme Court. Mr President will help us with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u34	Mr. President. I come up here for the words of the highest. The president said that we could use a question period at the time of the hearing and that the ministers were in the hall. It's totally absurd to suggest it -- I hope it's been more fun - that we use the few minutes we have to have in political conversation with the executives in here calling for the Supreme Court. Ministers do their jobs. It should simply be enough, if that is the case. It is the custom of the senators, on behalf of their clients, to call for these answers. In the United States, however, the times for the reply are already ahead of us. I'm just going to give it to the highest level. President and Minister that I will use this meeting form, President's conference board, until I have the answers I asked for the questions I asked two months ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u35	A respectable president. I would like to thank the President for the advice to direct unprepared queries to the highest level. Ministers, but answers to such inquiries are often a disgrace to the redness. At any rate, this applies to some of the last cases in which the person listed here spoke to them. However, it is my concern, Mr. President, how it is tried, on a seemingly organized basis, to reduce the role of a senator who is a sacred duty and a constitution. It seems that whether an outside party is involved or there is no difference in the matter. It is attempted to delay and prevent information related to the surveillance of members of the Parliament and in the interests of public interest despite repeated testing in that direction. That's serious, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u36	The president would like to inform us about the discussion of answers or delayed answers that the conference office went into a special post because of the long donations of the inquiry in the days following a special discussion on these last week. It's had some success, it's built up a bit of answers, but not to all the inquiries the oldest, and we intend the President after the incident to use himself in it in the near future. At the same time, the president wishes to inform, who should not have any news before. Councilmen, that over the past ten to twelve years, much has been done to strengthen the rank of the Generals and to promote it as an observer. One of the things that sprang up from their opinions after a crash, that I consider on the basis of suggestions and tips from a special committee at the council, was at the highest level. A annual report of the deliberation of the council will be given to the General Assembly, so this is a continuation and an annual review of the progress of the Commission in respecting the will of the Parliament in these matters. But it is true that there are times when criticism and dissatisfaction are involved. That's what senators have plenty of resources to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u37	President. I'd like to state my position on this matter. I wasn't on the Committee on Environment and Transport because I think temporary I and II regulations are difficult. It is a complex process, a so - called premarital way, instead of taking a simple, complex, simple, biological course. However, there is a very complicated way for premarital rights and future evaluations, if not negotiated, which is extremely complex, evil, and can cause great time complications and litigation. I cannot accept the experiment there made to follow this new course, the permafrost way, and will be yellow on those terms. However, I agree that in the bill, important interests are at stake, security and public interest, and will therefore vote for my second vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u38	Mr. President. I'll just remember what we're talking about here. There was, of course, presented a bill to correct the change in air travel laws due to the duty of pilots for Covid-19. I want to read, with the permission of the President, a small part of the bill to explain what's going on here. That adds another provision for temporaryity, which is as follows: If there is a risk of travel to or from Iceland, and the public health requirement, the minister is allowed to state the temporary duties of the pilots/contractists to ensure the risk management of regulations as follows: a. Migration to determine if a passenger was due to have met for registration and has otherwise recognised the certificate of immunisation against Covid-19, the proof that Covid-19 infection is status, or proof of the negative results of a test against Covid-19 prior to boarding, as such obligations have been placed on the passenger basis of protection. b. Duty to withhold a passenger's transfer, he cannot issue a suitable certificate or confirmation. a-a team. c. Duty to take passengers back to their destination, he cannot present a valid certificate or confirmation. a-party at our arrival in the country. These were the ones we had been discussing for some time. It ended in 2nd. Here at the Parliament's Office, and the three committee views there, the majority of committees, and the lesser parts, were referred back to. Environment and Transport Committee. Is it not bad to say that the helicopter was about whether the Icelandic citizens had no means or not to board a plane? These were the lawyers that we did not discuss in one language, i.e. whether or not it was a violation of 66rd. The constitution, if you couldn't come home, so you say it like that, Except, the committee accepted the case again and was 2nd. continue to be delayed. And here is an extension opinion that I'm going to have to read, with permission of the Supreme Court. President. This is from a greater part of the environment and transport committee, and it reads: ▪ The Commission reviewed the matter, and the majority of the committees have decided to support the changes proposed in the committee's list of parts, scr. Tue. 1325, and a member body 1. smaller parts, scr. Tue. 1341. The logic support of the modification motions is referred to in the above documents. - And it's also a reminder of the conversations that were held here in the hall and of course exist. Sets the more part to accept the bill with the adjustment made in the above documents. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who was absent from the case, signed by traditional authority on the protocols of the World Council Committee. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this opinion. Under it, dated May 14th, giddy. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Mr. President. What we have done with this is to suggest two adjustments, which are that Icelandic citizens will not be harmed, in the case that in some case they do not have the paper in this case, entrance into the air. They arrive here in the country, depending on how they will be taken across the border on their arrivals to the Cheflavor airports, whether in the matter of screening, infection, or so on. I think I've made enough sense in what these changes are, and I reiterate that these two adjustment proposals, i.e. the majority and the 1st smaller parts, do not conflict. The result is only that Icelandic citizens board a plane they have the right to board if they have other conditions at their disposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u39	A respectable president. I welcome this change of attitude. More than part of the environment and transport committees in this case and the follow-up listed here, which leaves no doubt that these measures are not directly addressed to Icelandic citizens who plan to travel via airplanes on the outside. However, I would like to mention that the bill itself and all the proposed opinions, the original members of the committee and the after - mentioned works, are extremely flimsy when it comes to rational support and information on the basis and objective of this assembly. I call attention to the fact that it has been a long time since the matter of Congress, and circumstances may have changed considerably in Iceland since it was taken place. It is assumed that this bill will apply until the end of 2022, and it is specifically referred to as related duties laid on passengers on the basis of the transport laws and to the recent regulations set, extremely temporary, of the ban on third-count national travel. These are the rules that run out May only. I'd like to ask you why. An authority on whether this was discussed at the Committee, at the outset, or when the committee received this back in consideration, since this has been suggested, that the time of the bill is indistinguishable, indistinguishable long, especially in terms of a moderate order, which is very important to have in mind when it is intended to refer to some kind of emergency or special condition that has developed because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u40	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. I'm going to protest that the opinion of the greater part of this matter is poor. On the contrary, we recognize the moderate things needed and that the need for this is logical - so that it is now stated as to the extent of the loss. That the bill itself counts until the end of 2022 is normal because we have no idea of how the Covid pandemic develops. The key, of course, in this is that the Regulation, which must rest on treatment, the laws that are blunt without the Regulation, is reviewed every four weeks. If these actions are suddenly not needed, it is not easy to stop them even if laws continue to apply. I'm just stressing that it's not. A senator or I or others here in the hall have a green trick about how the Covid epidemic will develop over the next one to two years, so it's quite normal to have such a time span.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u41	A respectable president. This is precisely because humans are referring to some sort of emergency situation that may have existed when this bill was submitted, but certainly not at present, as conditions have developed in this country. It is just in such a situation that it is very important that laws are not an open prescription for the European Commission to set and extend them, as we have just an example of when a law was passed on to the highest power. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. A health minister to set limits on travel to and from the country. Then they were temporarily restricted to law. There must be a requirement here for the lawgiver to take sides in the length and use of such force over his head, that it is done by law rather than by regulations. That's what this discussion of legitimate action has been about. In view of the temporary short - term period, until the end of June of this year, other legislation will explain that this law should be completed, not by the end of this year, but by the next year, 2022. I would encourage the committee to review this because I think it is clear that this case will return to a committee between 2 and 3. I'll at least. That's what I'm asking. But in view of the fact that there is a problem. The speaker of this matter points to the Regulation and points out that it will last only four weeks at a time, so I would like to ask: Has the Commission been granted to see the specificity of such regulations? Is she already in a state of distress? And if so, why not make it public to the general and public?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u42	Mr. President. I don't know that regulations exist before the law is accepted on which they should be built. Well, that's the first thing. The laws here in Covid have come and gone very fast simply because we have responded to this epidemic. There are still 140 or 150 red countries in the world so that some emergency situation - we can play such a word play, what is an emergency? There's no emergency in Iceland, but there's an emergency in the world. There's a very contingency in these Covid business in the world. So there is nothing wrong with the way we act. I suppose that's what. A senator will be standing with the CDC here when he will be very careful to open the country, and now we're opening up on it for the first time in a very long time. Although these laws apply until the end of 2022, they are not unusual. I believe that there is no need to bring this matter back to the committee. Rather, it needs to be arranged for.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u43	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying that the matter has taken a basic turn, I am eager to tell, from the fact that I put myself on the rosary, with the leading committee that is present here, where a greater proportion of environmental and transport committees agree. For example, when it comes to refusing a transfer to Iceland, the members of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and the Gudignon of Brjánsson's committees. I felt that there was not even a legal uncertainty about the fact that if it were possible for the Icelandic citizens to come to their homes in the way expected, it would be completely out of harmony with the 66th grade. The Constitution where an unpredictable ban is, in effect, under the rule of an Icelandic citizen to come to the country. That's uncool. It is therefore a joy to see that more of the transport and environment committees have fallen from these programmes. Of course, in the face of necessary battle against high - quality viruses, most of us have been willing to make sacrifices. We have come to terms with reduced freedom of movement and a lack of quality of life for some time. The battle against the virus, and we need to be better there, is the main principle of disease control. Economic factors, and even important civil rights, have been placed in second and even third places. On the other hand, it is a political decision to comply with strict laws and to protect the health of the people of the land. The responsibility rests with politicians, not with a psychiatrist, a surgeon, a publicist, or the health system. A limited amount of freedom of action or civil rights is political. It may be based on the advice of cohesion authorities, but it is first and last political and has consequences, some of which are unpredictable, especially economic. That's why it's really important, when it comes down to some way of affecting, e.g. freedom of movement, not only to our Icelanders, but to those who want to be our guests here, that we might be moderate. So I say, Mr. President, in spite of the changes made in the leading committee party, it is not safe to assume that the average quantity I think is necessary. That refers to the period in which this bill, becomes law, should apply, or until the end of 2022. I think we in this room are sometimes too eager to give the Commission a warrant for the implementation of regulations without being very concerned about it. At times, we have simply delivered the legal authority to the Commission in the form of a warrant for regulations. When it comes to such matters as the matter of freedom of choice, it is important - that such sources are in place, as presented here, in support of the disease prevention principle, which is followed by a second discussion - to make a decision that the Regulation or authority exists as soon as possible. I remind you that on short notice, if at any point it is thought to be a lack of legal rights to take appropriate measures, it can be arranged. This would be understandable, and it might be possible to support the situation, or at least Do not violate, if you are looking for permission to set the relevant regulation and set airline requirements in the following two, three months. Or perhaps someone would agree that it would be permitted until the end of this year. But it's until 2022, and for that, I can't kill myself. I think it's necessary. The Environment and Transport Committee will take this matter back to themselves and I request that the case be referred back to a committee for specific reasons on the grounds of granting legislation to regulations up to the end of the year 2022. They do not exist because the council must work most of that time and if they believe that in the fall of such a law, they can go and request it here in this hall. Mr. President. I have quoted before, not here in the platform, but in an article in a young poet from Australia. Her name is Erin Hanson. This is a poem that often comes to me, small and beautiful. She wrote this when she was 18. Freedom waiteth for thee in the winds of the clouds, and thou shalt say, What if I fall? Oh, my dear, but if you fly? And I think we should start approaching the councilroom and in the fight with Covid from this: Oh, my dear, but if you fly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u44	Mr. President. Actually, I didn't think we'd have to spend any more time on this case, but it seems like that, at least. Right here, right now. On one hand, it's about the constitution and then it's a moderate measure that we like to call it. That word, without exception, means no exception. This article in the Constitution is so said to be true, but of course more. But it is always so now that if we read the constitution together, all the rights in the constitution, it will form a firm foundation of rights, and if you want to call it that way, it will be useless. Of course, that is not the case. If a verdict, e.g. so that someone in this country is guilty of some crime in the country and is therefore requested to be handed over to the authorities, etc. and contracts are available, of course, to dismiss someone from Iceland, but that is not allowed according to this constitution. I'm being submitted, reminded of, in a matter in which, in fact, it's a matter of criminal action and banning certain negative coverages - you understand what I mean - on the Holocaust. There is a limit to freedom of speech and human rights. Of course, such laws and rights can be passed by the lawgiver in this case. What is it, except for a degree of impairment of certain undisputed rights? And regarding the average value: Uncertain in the pandemic, it makes it possible that, of course, an article and a half year's law or law under regulation is valid if the regulations on which you are living are reviewed every four weeks. It is easy to unplug the whole thing and to stop using it. It's not complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u45	Mr. President. In a paper with a bill when administration laws were set here, i.e. The European Court of Human Rights says, by permission of the President: 2 mg/m2 in the first session. Section 4. The bill proposes an unprovable prohibition against forbidding an Icelandic citizen to come to the country and prohibit its expulsion from the country. Similar rules are found in 1 mg. Section 3. Annex 4 to European Convention on Human Rights and 4 mg. Section 12. The international agreement on civil and political rights, except in the latter agreements, it is not mandatory to dismiss its own citizens from the land. ◯ In effect, this law of the bill involves a fundamental part of the rights that result from becoming a citizen of a certain kingdom. While the rule of this material has not previously been established in the Icelandic constitution, it can doubtless be assumed that it has set up a body of unsolved principles established by the Icelandic government directive. That 66. G., a preemptive prohibition against turning back home to the Icelandic citizens was adopted here at a council of all paid votes. This has no chance, and we must have the opportunity here at the Hall of Congress to protect this fundamental right. I'm sure there's a difference, though, and I realize that, between me and my wife. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson when it comes to what I call the legislature of the legislature to the Commission. Hv. A senator thinks it's okay when I want to limit it. [[The president calls.]] I want them at least that there is evidence to explain why the European Commission receives the authority given.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u46	We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Of course, Óli Björn Kárason agrees that this arrangement of the constitution is unprovable. I'm just pointing out that both this and all the other unscrupulous rights of the Constitution are not without exception, as I pointed out about sending a man out of the country and giving him such a judgment to the foreign authorities. That man is to be judged by the Lawgiver, and he can be handed over to another country. I also pointed to a violation of freedom of speech that might be discussed on a certain matter. There's been no way for the council to do anything, but I'm just pointing out that there are examples where there is a doubt of this inadequacy or how one interprets it. I'm gonna repeat what I said when the case was first discussed here. The politicians we talked to who didn't even agree with us, believed this in a gray area, and even knew that they couldn't claim that it was a violation of the Constitution, this particular case of ours. I just want to keep it up. I'm not a lawyer, but I signed my word to protect the constitution, and of course I'm doing so. But to pretend there's no point in this, of course, it's not like that, unfortunately. Only on a moderate scale. I say again what I said, if the Regulation based on this law applies for a year and a half, it's revised every four weeks, then I don't see the danger. [[The president calls.]] And I myself object to the fact that this is going back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u47	Mr. President. We are at some point arguing about getting involved because of what we are doing. A senator has agreed, in effect, that Icelandic citizens should not be harmed, in the way expected on their original bill, to return to their homes. The Constitution also makes it quite clear that Icelandic citizens will not be expelled from the country. Only then will he be delivered to another Kingdom. There is something else, and this is not the basis for making that decision. Our differences are called memorization. I don't think it would be moderate when the Minister or the Commission is given extensive regulations, as is expected here, until the end of 2022, especially when it comes to the fact that the General Assembly of Iceland will be a major part of the period leading to the end of 2022. If they believe that there is any evidence or need that I hope will not be, to give such authority to the minister of law, then men can grant it by law. But there's no reason to have this Regulation released in 2022, and I strongly warn that men will do it just for convenience as they seem to be, it's just so good and convenient for the execution of power. There's a chance that we'll be caught off the street. Therefore, I believe it is important that this Regulation be at least restricted to several months.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u48	A respectable president. It is a matter of assembly that was proposed many weeks ago, two months ago, I recall, under specific circumstances, and surely took into account the circumstances that existed then, or even circumstances that existed some time before the bill was submitted. Apparently, less attention will be given to the conditions relevant today in Iceland. And yet, perhaps in one way that I'm going to come to a later part of the talk and focus on the main points of the subject. I'm glad that most of the cases changed. Environment and Transport Committee, when interrupted 2. In the context, more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee led to its opinion of the less part of the Committee that is expected to reach the Icelandic citizens. There's nothing more to argue about. Happily, all members of Congress agree that Iceland's rights to travel to and from Iceland are different and more than the rights due to the traffic of other citizens. It was a pleasant change, and I will not make the point of a special discussion in my talk. However, I would like to only shed light on the circumstances that I mentioned at the outset that were here and the circumstances that were permanent here in Iceland in view of this so - called pandemic. But I'd also like to mention what I've mentioned in answer to why. The fact that I consider the bill itself and all the relevant viewpoints in this case somewhat negligent to be in support of the case as well as in other aspects. In particular, I would like to mention that at a committee meeting, the views of all the visitors who were invited to a meeting of the Committee are small. However, it also highlights how few guests came to the committee to discuss these matters. Of course, the case concerns a lot of pilots who fly to and from Iceland. I see that we have guests from Icelanda, no matter what their viewpoints may be. I can imagine that Icelanda's viewpoint was that they were kind and obliged, or that it would not be difficult for Icelanda to fulfill the obligation required in the bill calling for IDs, these specific certificates, or documents, from their passengers. Of course, Icelanders have limited destinations, but there may be other viewpoints in which other pilots, especially foreign airlines, fly from areas other than those we most have. Such data may be harder to call for. In fact, this bill assumes that flight drivers will not be made responsible for verifying the certificate's value. Of course, it is very important to note that pilots are not responsible. However, it is required that they call for a presentation of these terms. The question, of course, must be whether it really serves its purpose, whether there will be a variety of schemes to produce all sorts of documents that the government then does not want to accept. In fact, there is no discussion of how a person will appreciate these documents and what documents are accepted. Much has been called on by the country that the point is clear, irrespective of this matter, but it's totally unclear. This is one of the things I'm saying that may not be serving its purpose. However, there is an objective responsibility for pilots, which means that fines can be committed to them, regardless of whether the guilt of their workers is proved in this matter. If only a person makes such an observation and assumes that the staff did not request these data without any special investigation or proof, that is the objective responsibility of the airline. I'd like to mention the most important things here. The bill calls for the temporary obligation of pilots to ensure disease prevention in a special crisis situation. I think it is important for a person to realize that such a warrant is, of course, present in the treatment of contaminants by means of the general and exceedingly broad source of authority that a psychiatrist has to resort to a disease prevention procedure in the event of a crisis. This is how a South American surgeon has been allowed to resort to widespread force in order to protect himself from disease prevention, provided that moderate control is taken and that there is a real danger to the population of epidemics. The plan was not to make these sources more widely available, not for more officials, or more extensive, in the sense that such authority can be used in the absence of any real danger. I would have wished that in one of the articles or the opinion of the committee, it would be tore up what was being done in other countries already at the end of this epidemic - i.e. Perhaps not the epidemic itself, but already more and more nations seem to have been vaccinated, as with the abundant population of Icelanders - and how other countries were dealing with international quests. I don't know that no other country has required pilots to call for signs of vaccination, signs of screening, or signs of previous illness. I think it would have been necessary to put this into context with world developments. I also believe that it has become a very dangerous trend and undesirable if people in the world are to be classed in this way and to hide their own companies calling out for the evidence that these are when people travel from abroad, of course, provided those countries that receive these people are in full position to do what - Iceland is already the word and other countries. It is noted that there have been different opinions on the subject of Icelandic citizens without any identification. As I told you earlier, I'm not going to do it for a subject because everyone has agreed to the view that, except for you, an Icelandic citizen needs to be taken from the set of values of this bill. Here, a greater proportion of the committee refers to objective opinions and the legitimate purpose of the bill. It is only suggested that for over a year we have been dealing with the Koronovirus epidemic and that there have been many limits to the freedom of the people to act. This seems to me to be the only argument that the greater part has for this bill, i.e. to refer to other severe disease prevention procedures. It says: In view of this, the greater part considers no doubt subject to the fact that objective and legitimate purpose are behind them - i.e. It seems that so many other limits were placed on freedom of movement. However, the fundamental question that humans need to answer is: Is such action still urgent? I ask - and would have wanted to have the answer in the history of the case, at least no later than in the history of the committee's reviewer - would you have had to endure such burdensome, costly, and costly operations on the border as they have been doing in recent years? How long will there be action across the border be subject to the screenings of those coming here, to the duty of those who come to the residence of the contemporaneous hotels, and to those who are subject to infestation during the first few days after their arrival, even to the Icelandic citizens who come to our country? How long will people have those operations? This is a fundamental question, and I must say, a respectable president, that it is, in the highest sense, strange that the government has not answered. The bill may conclude that the goal is somehow to remove these measures from the country. Reports have been made that Keflavík's terminal has come down because of the disease - control operations that take place there, which are screened for. Reports have also been made that people cannot find a new disease - control hotel fast enough to find a place for all those people from every 160 countries currently listed on a so - called high - risk site. I can't remember how many countries of the world, perhaps more than 200, of which 160 countries are defined as high - risk areas for some list at the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. How long will this be in progress when the nation has been largely vaccinated? All the most sensitive groups have been vaccinated, and the most important is that vulnerable groups have been vaccinated, and humans are better equipped to cope with this epidemic. In my opinion, a respectable president, and as I understand the world's leading experts, this epidemic, this virus, is not going to disappear in the near future. The most important thing is that humans are equipped to cope with it, but they do so so so that life does not fail, as is our struggle with other health - related diseases, and society has to deal with all day - to - day, all day - to - day conditions, all over the world. So a basic question is, How long will these actions take? I've raised a recommendation that men are somehow trying to get out of this operation by moving it to another country, bringing it to the outer borders, and putting it into the hands of a pilot to call out for these data, but no assessment has been made whether it will produce any results or if it is all in the form of poise that I'm afraid this bill is. Maybe it's a way out of the condition I've been describing at Leifs Station and the CDC because somehow you have to get out of it. You need to get out of these screenings, this obligation to stay at the contaminant hotels. Of course, these measures will not take long to support the treatment. Actually, there's another discussion I'll call for, i.e. ... toputdown and reveal the cost of all of this. Wouldn't all the money that has been paid to promote the health system be better, increasing the hospital's ability to receive one, even if it was five or ten, a small wave of this epidemic? If this money were not better spent in construction in that field, rather than trying, as a person might now appear to be in some form, looking at people who come asymptomatic, looking out of all non - Witnesses, having asymptomatic people stay at the State's expense at a social hotel, and the latest reports even women with children. That's what I feel to call a discussion. All right, if you're going to follow a pilot's duty bill to call out for certain testimonials to drop the cost of disease in the country, I say, "Guð is good to know." I'd be glad to. Although I hate the matter for myself as a basic policy and material, I also call for people to tell me how long they're going to be doing this. The problem with the problem is that this has not been informed. There has been no information on how long humans will continue screening on the border. I hear the tourism is pointing out that people should record - and I've actually pointed it out a long time ago - a more efficient test than this so-called PCR test, less aggress, less invasive, if you can call it that, speed test and so on. This does not change the main question -- and it must be answered: When will people be afraid to reduce these measures and reduce costs so that they can focus on the construction of the structures in this country and especially the health systems that bleed out during all this virtual activity? I'll let me call it showy because these severe measures are being taken now at last when all our delicate people are vaccinated. It was not the last fall, but it was now that most of them are vaccinated. I'd like to make a decision at the end of the hearing that I think the Icelandic government is perfectly allowed to set the border rules that they want and stop the arrival of people over the border in a way that the government considers best for Icelanders. At that point, I'm not arguing with this bill. In fact, I have noted that for many reasons, border control should be tightened. But I pay attention if people are going to use such a case in order to handle a problem other than that caused by the crown virus epidemic, to resort to other types of tourists, or to cross the borders of human society, which the Korean epidemic calls for. It is the danger of such an issue, which is beyond this long period of time, that men even abuse their authority for a completely different purpose, and maybe the general person is upset about the real reason for it. This is what I've been stressing. I just want to say that I agree with what you wish for. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kárður's son to say the case goes back to a committee between 2nd and 3rd. I got it. I got it. The Environment and Transport Committee, then, to review and propose a change in the time of the bill so that this is not a far-reaching warrant for regulations that issue the duties of flight drivers in 2020 when all the other legislation we have been given here and provide for the Korean epidemic is much shorter. Recent legal adjustments are only valid until the end of June.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u49	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the employment board on bill for the review of salmon and trout law, No. 61/2006, minority protection, etc. The firm has discussed the matter again and has been contacted by Arnór Snæbjörnsson Bearsson frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti and the Víðir Smári Petersenur. The committee discussed the Committee's Committee of Assessments but in the 3rd Team. The bill is suggested to 1st. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. the legislation on salmon and trout fishing will be changed, and the requirement is that two committees qualify for the office of local judges and that the Supreme Court appoints one of them on the Committee of Assessments. It is suggested that Merition Research Institute, instead of the Supreme Court, no name for the committee, but it is still assumed that a minister will ship the other without a appointment. The majority of it is important that members of the committee have knowledge that is useful to her work. By obtaining the right of an EEC, the Committee will ensure that there will be marine knowledge, the expertise in the environment of water and water that can be tested in some ways. in regard to interest terms in interest files. The more part points out that despite the obligation to have a member of the local Court, a minister of the committee can consider that a member of the committee meets these requirements or that he has knowledge of the laws by which the committee works. This was what came into the professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. On the basis of the Commission's orders. The other factor we took between the 2nd and 3rd. contains a set of benefits in Article 5. Since we discussed then the bill's article. It suggests setting up a special improvement responsibility for those who vote for a new 3 mg. 40. B., sr. a- team 2. The bill, the specific criteria filled up. The overall improvement rule of 49th degree. The law does not assume an improved course if a decision, which is not on objective grounds, prevents seafood rights from finding natural gain from its benefits. The decision is to serve as a guard in addition to the universal rule of 49 C.E. The law. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the committee, the majority of the committee's members are written, why. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Chairman of Njli Satur Friðbertsson, spokesman for the case, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Haraldur Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A manager for his report, but I have to admit that I find it somewhat demeaning in particular points, especially on the committee's orders. Thus it should be noted that the basis or purpose of the changes proposed to the Committee's Committee of Assessments is not set out. As you know, the Committee of Assessments is a very important agency in the important industry involved in salmon and trout fishing, and it deals with enormous interests. In the current law, a panel of three representatives is expected to have two appropriate conditions for the local Court. Is one of them appointed by a minister without a appointment, but the other is appointed by the Supreme Court. The modern - day change is very twofold. On the one hand, all relevant conditions in the law fall away. Of course it can. A senator and the rest said that there is nothing to forbid it or that, at least, someone appointed by a minister could satisfy the right conditions of a local judge, but it is not stated in the law. Then it is seen that it has been pointed to by several sources by the National Association of Fishing Association, and I will explain it here in a speech and review it, that there is a very high risk that the person who is referred to by the Marine Research Institute will be incompetent by the NTSB to the case at an earlier stage. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Why is this a suggestion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u51	Mr. President. It is stated in a committee study that I mentioned earlier that the greater part of it is important that members of the committee have knowledge that is used in her work. This has been shown in the discussion over a considerable period of time because it has been discussed on the committee. This is the second affairs we have in mind, and the matter has even more history. We make it clear that the majority of them consider it important for members of the committee to have knowledge that is useful to her work. It will be explained that by getting the right of an EEC to ensure that within the Committee, there will be a marine knowledge and expertise in the environment of water and water that could include. Privacy is to be tested in terms of interest. We add, in the opinion of a greater part, that despite the obligation of a member of the local Court to qualify for a local judge, a minister of the committee can look to the committee to meet such conditions or to have knowledge of the laws established by the committee. It is noted in this brief committee that there is a search for loyalty to knowledge, to fishy knowledge, to the expertise in the environment of water and water, which could include. The work of this committee is under test. There are complex issues and many things to consider. As a result, this was to strengthen that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u52	Mr. President. Hv. In no way did one senator answer my question about the fact that the National Council of Hunting Association said that a representative of the Marine Research Institute would be incompetent because of the introduction of the Agency into the past phase. He gave no answer, and he did not really answer, in effect, what is the basis for making such a fundamental change in the order of this important committee. At the end of the last decision made by the Council's Committee on Order, that was the sentence of this Act of 2006, two members of the committee would meet the relevant conditions of the local Court. Today, there is no requirement for those who are to appoint this committee. You can ask why. A member of the Parliament on the current legal authority, as stated in Article 3 of the Treaty. 44. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The Committee of Assessments, if necessary, is required to call the experts to help them. - And continue, with Presidential permission: -- ◯Heni is also allowed to seek opinion or research from experts or research centres on the environment of water where this is relevant for a solution. Mr. President. I'm asking why. Senator: Have you had any problems with the Committee to Re-Elect? Have the sources I've been tracking not enough here? And what is the explanation that the two committees meet such strict requirements as meeting conditions for being regional judges to have no sort of demands for those who are to appoint this important committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u53	V.E.G. President. I must disagree, since there is no requirement for any committees on a retail board. [[Up front.]] It is also noted that members of the committee meet the requirements of ministers appointed by them, or they have knowledge of the laws by which the committee works. So it is not that they will not do with this thing. In particular, however, the emphasis is on fishing knowledge, the expertise in marine waters and rivers, which can be found among other things, in terms of interest to money remuneration. There is also certain knowledge, and it must not be underestimated, and it is vital that such knowledge exist. We know it; the length of a tray and all that is being worked on in these matters. I think it's a good conclusion in the case that's being worked out below. This is a small fraction of the big issue we've been dealing with for two years, but we've been discussing it for the last two sessions. I must therefore disagree that there is no requirement for further knowledge in the work of the Committee, after completing this matter here at the High Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u54	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a bill-change proposal to correct the conversion of salmon and trout law. That law is no. 61/2006. What this is all about is that the bill is that the main policy of efforts to promote a minority protection in hunting societies and I remind that membership in hunting communities is legalized to those involved. For some reasons that have not been explained - including not by the head of the greater part of the Committee that could not explain adequately why it is suggested to fall from the relevant conditions in the current law and that two of the three members of the committee should be included in an assessment committee, which plays a very important role, meet the relevant conditions of the local judges. It's the lesser part, which stands together by the Central Party representatives at what? Work committee, we're off the hook. paritaprevir Sigurður, the son of Jónsson, believe not to remove this law, and to keep to the same order, which is that the minister of the ship alone without a appointment, the second according to the court of the Supreme Court, and that both of them have the proper conditions of the district judge. Third Commission member appoints a local hunting partner. The minority feels that this modification proposal, which has not been explained what to do in a bill dealing with a minority protection in hunting societies, is unprovoked and unacceptable, is that there are no qualifications for a session in an assessment committee when - as has been traced here - two members of the Committee have to meet conditions for the local Court. In that case, Mr. President, the National Union of Fishing Association has strongly objected to this change in its review and in letters to the trade committee. The National Union believes that more knowledge is needed within the Committee to handle legal solutions, including with reference to the projects of the Committee and the new projects it will be entrusted with the legislation of the bill. The less part and actually the National Association of Fishing Associations point to the risk of conflict in interest as to the topic of Marine Research at the Committee on Assessment Committee, including with reference to what says in the review of the European Union's hunting partner, that the Agency is involved in various projects and decisions that come to the assessment committee. Mr. President. The minority would like to change the protection of my share in hunting societies but not be able to accept this unprovoked change in the Committee to Evaluate. After all, it was. A pilot, huh? Friðbertsson I would like to reiterate that it is not right on his part because of the law's high demands that two men meet conditions for being regional courts. But the law, as it should change it, does not require such conditions. There are no conditions. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to refer to the review of the National Association of Fishing. It's dated February 17th, and it's about this. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ [The hunting union] cannot see why there is a special need to appoint a member of the Committee with expertise in the biology of aquatic fish. On the contrary, LV remains desirable for those of the Committee who meet the general conditions of the local Court to ensure proper and professional treatment. In addition to making remuneration, many legal matters can be sent to the Committee of Review Committee. As hunting property becomes more diverse, it can be expected that in the coming years, such issues will increase significantly. [...] To a large extent, the work of the Committee is legal, and it is important that the majority of legalized lawyers be organized. This committee must also write a decree that is mainly within the range of laws. Even now, more than ever, it is important that members of the committee be legalized in view of the fact that there is a room for debate over new sections 3 and 4. 40. g. Act under the committee. It says that the Committee is in charge. current rules allowed to leave experts if necessary to assist them. Of course, it is proper to review that in accordance with current laws, there will be a law that will continue in 3 mg. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. permission for a board of committees to leave the experts in case of need. There is also another source, which is then spoken in the law, by permission of a president: It is also permitted to seek opinions or studies by experts or research centres on the environment of water, where this is relevant for a solution. I must be able to assume from now on that nothing has been reported to be a problem at the Committee of Work because of the way it has been planned. There is no evidence or even a comment that this double legal authority, on the one hand, is to inform the CHMP if necessary, and on the other hand, to seek out the opinion or research of experts on the environment of water, which has relevance to the solution of a case, has been inadequate and is not sufficient to ensure that the decision-making of a scientific committee would be sufficient. In that case, Mr. President, I would like to assume that two letters have been written on behalf of the European Union. Workspace committee where the committee is strongly challenged to abandon these changes to the Committee of Review Committee. In a letter dated April 29, 2021, signed by the directors of the National Fishing Association, Elías Blöndalur Guðjónsson, says, on permission of the president's permission: It would be for the overall benefit if these changes were to be turned away from the Committee of Assessments. Then there are reasons, and I'm going to grab into this letter for that, by permission of the president, which says: ▪ [The hunting union] cannot see why there is a special need to appoint a member of the Committee with expertise in the biology of aquatic fish. The intention is to dismiss an disfellowshipped condition. On the contrary, LV remains desirable for those of the Committee who meet the general conditions of the local Court to ensure proper and professional treatment. In addition to making remuneration, many legal matters can be sent to the Committee of Review Committee. The report goes on to say that the value of habitats should be increased by a fish-based approach to assessments and, according to the letter, the level of habitats needs to be increased. As to that, with President's permission: As to that argument, there are very different opinions between the hunting rights of the owners, as you can see if the individual rights of hunting are considered on the basis of a decision to make money for the past few years. Nearly unsurpassedly, units have been divided between food owners in line with what is presented in the habitats of fishermen. [...] The habitat assessment takes only to bottom but nothing to other river conditions. It would be more reasonable for fishermen to develop a way to absorb the temperature and potential for food into their habitats and provide such a process for the recovery of eaters. This has not been done by oceanographers, who rely solely on agricultural bottomwork. That's what it says: ▪ Most of the matters that arise on the board of a money - making committee are for agricultural assessments that are often produced by a Meritional Research Institute. In the meantime, a representative will take his position on the habitat food that is prepared by the same agency as his appointee. If this law of the bill were to be legal, that one representative would be appointed according to the National Research Institute's indication, the letter states that a representative designated by the Marine Research Institute would be unable to deal with domestic food, from the same institution, and to weigh its implications. Finally, the letter I have been witnessing points out that the review board also performs other tasks under the salmon and trout law. In most cases such decisions are made according to a review from the Oceanographic Institute. Is it not pointed to 24, 29th, 34th, and 35. The law in that relationship. Then the letter says by permission of the president: ▪ It can be reasoned that a representative of the Marine Research Agency was unable to discuss these matters. [...] With reference to the above, the National Union puts in place a fishing organization to disappear from planned changes in order to be made to the Committee to Evaluate. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. layer of salmon and trout fish Mr. President. The European Union follows this letter in a letter dated May 6, 2021, an additional reason on the European Union of Fishing Association. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Oh, my God. 2 mg. 18th par. the treatment of fish farming should assess the damage to the interests of hunting rights because of the loss of fish on the basis of assessment at VII. the section on salmon and trout fishing. [...] So here it is being suggested that a representative of the Marine Research Agency be included in a committee designed to assess the damage caused by the decision taken by the Marine Research Institute. Of course it won't work. It must simply raise questions about the motives behind these planned changes, especially in view of the fact that the Department of Employment, both salmon and trout business and fish farming, has brought this issue to a great deal of weight. Mr. President. It is seen that there is a great deal of debate behind the national fishing organization that directs the firm wishes to the Committee and the Council to the drop from planned changes. For these reasons, we want to do what. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, who wants to remain in the current system where there are a high standard for two representatives to meet the relevant conditions of the local Court, that it remain unchanged. We, along with this opinion, suggest that this section of the bill be removed, i.e. To a-a team 3. ... goout. If this were agreed, the results would be that no changes were made to the Committee's Committee of Assessments. I believe this to be the best of my success, and the need to make the changes presented here has not been demonstrated in any way. I reiterate that existing law contains abundant sources for the Committee of Assessments to acquire scientific opinions on biological issues such as fish science and such. Mr. President. I think it's necessary that this case be discussed at the scene of the day. Work committee, especially in the light of this clear recommendation from the National Fishing Association. Therefore, I request that the matter be adopted by the Committee between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u55	A respectable president. I claim that lawyers throughout the country are now hatched because of the tremendous amount of support. A senator has declared his work and the requirements he makes so that they are exactly on this committee of assessment. Perhaps I'm not going to make any disagreement about who in itself should be on this committee of assessment. Granted, there are a number of viewpoints in this regard. However, I would like to briefly review that the review committee has previously been made. In the past, a committee appointed to two persons designated by the Supreme Court had nothing to say who sat on this committee of assessment - and then probable one from the National Fishing Association. Now, the situation is that one is appointed without a appointment, one from the Supreme Court, and one from the National Fishing Association. And here's a suggestion that the Supreme Court no longer mention. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he really makes comments on the fact that this project will be taken from the Supreme Court itself. I've been pointing out for years that the Supreme Court has enough on it. There are dozens of legal columns that suggest that the Supreme Court has some form of appointment in various committees and tips, and I believe that there is good reason to change this. That's why I'm especially celebrating this adjustment proposal. But I want to know what. A senator may agree with me that it is not necessary for the Supreme Court to be subject to this committee of assessment, although we may have various views on whether to be lawyers or some other authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u56	President. It is not in vain to discuss these matters with the Supreme Court attorneys, both in opposition and on the President's chair. Of course, it is perfectly accurate. A senator reviews that last changes were made to the Committee of Assessment Committees in 2006, up to the time period were two nomads of Supreme Court and a minister had no place. That changed, however, in 2006, from that time on, there is one nominee of the Supreme Court. This appointment by the Supreme Court is natural, I suppose, explained by the view that these subjects are legal. It is emphasized and imposed by the law that these two representatives meet the appropriate conditions of the district judge. Then, in a strong way, it is assured that a committee of assessment can acquire a biological, fish - based opinion. That's the two sources I covered very thoroughly in my speech. I don't know if there was any tone here in front of the Supreme Court, a word like: He's got plenty to do with himself. I don't know what's going on with it. However, when it comes to appointing men who are considered to have considerable testimony as lawyers, it is natural to approach the Supreme Court in this regard. On the other hand, I can't figure it out if I do. A senator doubts that this is a project that in some way is disturbing to the Supreme Court. How can you tell? So, for example, a member of the U.S. Marshal's Office is to appoint representatives on committees of great importance and on matters of great interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u57	A respectable president. The role of the Supreme Court is to bring an end to legal differences for those who come to court with their differences. The Supreme Court is not an Omega of all legal matters in this country. That's just what I was referring to. It would be nice to hear from what you hear. A senator can't agree with me that it must now be the Minister of each case who has this authority and whether it would not have been more natural to go further and to leave the two of them off to be nominated by the Minister himself without mixing other institutions in it, neither the Oceanographical Institutes nor the Supreme Court. The minister is responsible for the claims of such committees, and he does so according to the highest awareness at any given time, turning to the needed ones. I also show that these cases can often end in courts, and that it is not my best to be required by the Supreme Court that he is referring to men in all kinds of committees and advisers, including the judicial committees on matters that can even end before the Supreme Court. There should be a high degree of legal cleansing in this issue. But we can agree on that, why. A senator and I, of course, this committee is very necessary to have lawyers on the table. But there is a requirement, both in the law text and in the very nature of it. I'm not worried that Ministers are prone to order lawyers or those with the best knowledge on this particular project. But making a requirement that the Supreme Court be involved in this case or the Marine Research Institute - I ask: Could you do that? A senator agrees that neither a Habitat Institute nor the Supreme Court appoints men on this committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u58	Mr. President. Here, you may see at the end of the tunnel because there are two points upstairs. On the one hand, it is time to say that the Supreme Court nominates one of the committees and that, as it is called, it is the indication of an EECU. But what I think is far more important is that these two, i.e. are under the law's requirement. The man appointed by the Supreme Court and the one appointed without a Minister's appointment meets the conditions of the state judge. That's in my mind the main thing. And when we were. paritaprevir The Sigurður apostle Páll Jónsson is trying to avoid the accident that is happening before our eyes, that there should be no law on the qualifications of those who are to be included in this assessment committee, none of which are now required that two meet the requirements for being regional judges, which is the main issue. The last time the Council made a decision on this matter, it was that a minister should appoint one without a appointment where two were previously appointed according to the Supreme Court's appointment. If it was suggested that a condition be met as a local judge should be met, it would be of no importance to me that one party is necessarily designated by the Supreme Court. [[Up front.]] It would only be necessary for a minister to appoint two men without a appointment, but they met the required conditions. [[The president calls.]] That may be a wise solution to this matter, and perhaps it is. A senator proclaiming that the more part could accept it. [[The president calls.]] I'd settle for it by now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u59	A respectable president. I'm moving a new bill proposal here to correct the conversion of the earth law No. 81/2004, on simple regulations, protection of agricultural land, information obligations, etc., from a greater part of the workaholics. We called this case between the 2nd and 3rd. Since then, the matter has been discussed and given to visitors from the Department of Employment and Development, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Organization and the Union of Iceland. In addition, members of the Committee have also met with representatives of the Landal Service and several real - estate halls to discuss the matter. The Commission received a subsequent report from the European Union, where a comment was made on the opinion of the majority of the committee, which was taken to 2 C.E. ar. where it said that earthlike layers are already obligatory to classify agricultural land. The relationship is that this is a new obligation, not to be made clear in existing laws, nor in planning laws, nor in earth's law. Is this further explained in a note that comes with the follow-up. In the handling of the case for the Committee, the Ministry pointed to regulations 4. Section 6. aquifers, which state that the assessment of rural society should determine whether to obtain permission to release agrienvironmental use when the land is less than 5 acres [5 ha] an area should take into account the agrienvironmental framework and the government's policy on agrienvironmental systems. Then it's 2nd. Fifty-five. The law states that a minister is permitted to provide instructions on how to classify agrienvironment in the main structure. At the same time, the Organization has suggested that agrienvironmentalisation should result in agrienvironmental policy and that rural society, as appropriate, be advised in planning its plans. There is also now a distribution of experience with the classification of this in several rural areas. Recent guidance on how to establish agrienvironment schemes can also strengthen their implementation. For the Committee, it came up with a view to the importance of harmonizing and preparing better for the implementation of agrienvironmental guidance in order to succeed in the classification and to reduce the costs for this aspect of planning. It was considered how government institutions, both the Organization, the services of agriculture, and particularly the State's land management, which have a lot of knowledge about soils and mapmaking, could help companies of this work. The majority encouraged the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Ministry of Employment and Development to act immediately to address these views in cooperation with the government of planning. If the committee knows that this work has already begun and is confident that it will be facilitated and referred to as a result of the opinion of the greater part of the Committee at 2rd. the majority of the item does not consider to be a reason for changing the bill in this regard for a period of 3. Editing more of the part. Selling land and goods for sale. According to the labour system, the obligation of the State is to buy property and reform an farm on the particular price of food, to decide that the person should not live, which can obtain much more than the real market price. Thus, in many cases the government's remuneration of property has increased the value of the selling of the earth and its goods as a public market. In this case, the income of the state of the apartment system has not been paid at the expense of it. In view of the greater part, it is very important to maintain as many soils as possible in the rural areas and to continue to have suitable Kingdom farms as possible a new agricultural or other occupations as possible. Saling the current world-wide candidates in accordance with the sources of ground law is one way to ensure continued use of farms. It is also reasonable that governments look for ways to encourage the candidates to buy their camps, there are no particular views that require that the country remain owned by the State Fund. This guarantees that the earth and its risks will remain limited. According to the 37th paragraph. On the basis of the evaluations of aquifers, the retail value of a similar type of land in a similar region is considered to be public. While individual purchases may vary, governments should seek fair and practical ways for all concerned to make it easier for the candidates to buy their stores. In recent years, landowners have wanted to restore a land of healing that was restored to a land once before by the administration of the land - healing plant. It has been found that the current geological laws on the assessment of the sale value of the land to the current stockholders of the species have proved to be unduly complex and difficult to carry out. Thus, the majority suggest changes in the disposition of the market markets of these regions. On the one hand, the greater part contributes to a change of the 1st word. 2 mg. Thirty-seven. aquifer, which includes the sale of an obligatory land to the owner of the land that meets the conditions set before the application of the rights of land law, should be referenceed to the market price of a similar country. In addition to the provision of market prices, there is a principle that is already in the law to consider a specific agreement in terms of the land's pay for exposition to the State and the amount of land transplants or Sand healing required for its healing. The majority contributes to this change in terms of the cost of healing of these areas has been estimated to be considerable in many cases and, in effect, much higher than the market value of the designated areas today. Therefore, it can be concluded that the current directive does not allow it to facilitate sales of the affected areas to their former owners. However, the majority suggest that we at 37th. aquifers will be added to a new paragraph that will consider the price of sale. It suggests that the price of sales at the average value of half-heated land, considered to be more favorable than market prices. It will be conditioned that the land will be under agricultural use and its use will not be changed for the next twenty years instead of ten years, as required at 36 p.m. a on the aquifers of the prenupitious land's prenuptial rights. The majority of the countries believe that it is appropriate to say that, according to this, according to the sale of agricultural sources, the land will be replaced by traditional agriculture, i.e. The production of farms, particularly farming with emphasis on livestock, food and food production, is taking a haemoglobin prices in the article into account. This is not expected to be used for other activities such as vacation or industrial or energy production. This will include a declaration of the agricultural use of the European Parliament of the European Union on the European Union and on the European Commission. The majority of these points to the 22nd paragraph. legal in terms of land healing already states that land healing should be used for the sale of wastelands set rules for the treatment of the region so that the treatment of the land is always sustainable and that these treatment and utilisation rules should be declared in the relevant region. The majority of the rights to the purpose of this change is primarily to allow Member States to restore to a state - to - state transplant and to reimpose as most of the land in the countryside and that agriculture suitable for agriculture would be available for such use. Other forms of the greater part are technical and are not intended to have material influence. So most of the part suggests that the bill will be approved by the following adjustment that involves what I have considered. Under this reference work, the article "Aggressively. " Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njálri Friðbertsson, Ísleifsson Isafánsson and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u60	Mr. President. I recommend a change to the bill to legalize the patent law, No. 17/1191, expanded access from secondary protection. The adjustment proposal reads, with President's permission: ▪ At 1st Gr. a. Subject 1. A- force puts it: although in force there is additional protection at 1.mg. is permitted in the following cases without the approval of the Member State: a. The manufacture and/or conduct of the necessary measures for the manufacture of substances intended solely for export to the European Economic Area, where materials or products containing the product are no longer protected or have not been protected, marking the manufacture with the National Competent Authority, or b. Create and/or perform the necessary actions for the manufacture of the material or medicinal product that contain it at first six months before additional protection. 1.mg. misses, in order only to store it in the country to allow for the establishment of the material or medicinal product containing it in the market after the lack of additional protection. b. Following the reference '- and b-join' to 2nd paragraphmgr. 4 mg. c. Of course I'm not. a-joints are added: at 5 mg So does this modification proposal that I've recommended here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u61	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a new proposal for the interpretation of real estate status reports. ▪ The journal has discussed the matter and had a meeting with Friðrik Ágúst Ólafsson from the Industrial Association, Hallmarsdóttir Herdís, of the House / Mansic Institute, and of Jóhann Þór Magnússon. News came from the Society of real estate sales, Houses and Civilization Institutes, Jóhann Þór Magnússon and Industrial Association. The case was previously given at 148, 149, and 150 C.E. There were reviews from the National Social Association of Iceland, Bjarná ehf., Communicator Realty, Primary Army Corp., National Bank, Iceland's Food Association, The Neighbour Society, Arrowary Ingolfson and Iceland's National Registry. The proposal suggests that the Council of the Council deems to hide the travel, industrial and innovation ministers and the Minister of Justice to prepare and submit a legal bill that includes a review of the law on property sales and ships, No. 70/2015, real estate law, no. 40/2002, and Constitutional Codes, No. 39/1978. The aim of the proposal is to promote improved consumer protection in real estate and to simplify communication between sellers and buyers of housing, as well as landlords and tenants in making contracts and other necessary legalties. Have the reviewers and guests of the Committee largely expressed support for these objectives of the proposal and for the whole proposal. The Commission's review of the case showed that some of the responsibilities of the state reports are being taken from the seller of the apartment, which may be a protection to the individual in certain cases, which have occurred in recent years, e.g. In Norway, increasing the demand for observation and information, but at the same time, to increase the responsibility of seals for the faults to come. By making reports of status when real estate transactions occur and by registration of changes and improvements after events, there will be time for a type of ◯ scrapbook to be used for each housing diary showing key aspects of the building. While such registrations may be costly, they can save a lot of money for long periods of time. The Committee reviewed that the state reports should only be required in the case of used housing, but in the case of new buildings, it is sufficient to aim for data done in the normal construction process. It was also found that there were different requirements for the content of the reports, especially how detailed they should be depending on the age of real estate. The majority agree with these views than with the follow-up of the minister. The reviews also provided a wide range of suggestions on how to consider the details of the proposal. The majority of the items are directed to the minister to accept the tips and terms to be considered in the processing of the bill. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is unlikely that a review of Congress laws would be necessary to achieve the aim of the proposal. So it is suggested that their law be removed, which directly addressed to travel, industry, and innovation to achieve such changes in consultation with the Ministry of Justice will be necessary. Taking into account the above, the more part suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the adjustment presented in the committee's opinion. The hearing was of the matter. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter was absent, but under the opinion of the printed material. Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, who stands here, Smári Mccarthy, Jón Páldor Valdimarsson, Braesur Níelsson's son, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brryfjordótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Bogi Hafliðason the Cape. Mr. President. To further appreciate what this is about, the idea is that by keeping a better eye on the information involved in the maintenance and status of real estate and that selling real estate may be saving a considerable amount of money, especially at the expense of affecting the issues of housing. There would also be fewer problems, fewer hidden faults, and in general, the maintenance history of apartments and real estates would be present so that the situation could be further evaluated. It is hoped that there are a number of arguments that have come up in the past so that problems like molds could not be dealt with more easily. It's all part of it, I think, a lot of improvement, and I can't wait to see a bill that's applying it to the law. I'd like to thank the Economic and Business Committee for taking some action on this matter. It has been fun to win this thing, and especially in view of the fact that several times the matter has passed through the council but has not reached its destination. Of course, the matter itself changed between councils and has grown firm, I think, better at every turn. Now the end is at hand. I hope this will be done from here on out of the council and then go to the next step, which is then the highest-level bill. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u62	President. I'm finally in that place for a second discussion. Just like that. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy noted earlier that it has gone through a few of the curves of the council. One of the rotations is due to the new structure and state reports to follow. The original doctrine was the interpretation proposal in the form it is today. The majority suggest that status reports do not have to include new apartments. However, reports of new apartments and new real estates often found themselves in a bad situation. As agreed here, it would be reasonable to assume that all data would follow through with new structures that would actually be the role of a state report where appropriate. I'm glad the case ended at this place, and I'm looking forward to seeing a Minister's payment on it. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is unlikely that it would be necessary to review the Constitution laws in order to achieve the objectives of the proposal, and it may well be, changes in plagion law have just passed through the council, i.e. about their electronic activity. There's more to this than the law could possibly cover, like contracts and the like. But if the law covers them too and starts making them electronically, it's just the best. I'm glad this place has come to this place because it's been a real problem. As in the synoptic arrangement, she has, from the time she was first submitted until now, e.g. to help with matters that have been approved at the council for reimbursement of a valuable tax due to improvements in housing and the like. This could be listed as a maintenance diary with receipts and thus on corpses and could automatically be reimbursed in terms of paying due taxes instead of having to go through a fairly complicated process with the tax for such reimbursement. It is not necessarily the most transparent or most accessible device to get its rights in this regard. Simply passing through the Senate description process or a maintenance diary that would happen automatically if all were available and in an appropriate process. If you said that a house was upgraded, that was done, or something like that, and the receipts had been submitted, it would be reimbursed, and the merit tax would be reimbursed. This would make it easy for so many things if the process of buying and selling property and holding up property, and the activities that the Parliament often put in motion to help them, that it is all electronic and accessible. I think it would improve the long-term housing market in Iceland quite enormously and give us much more information on the state of the entire real estate. What we have here is a second discussion and then a vote on the Senate resolution of real estate status reports. The next step will be to complete the law around this and the implementation of that law so that we can start doing better things here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u63	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Commission on billing measures against market fraud. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and received a memo on certain aspects of the case from the Ministry. The bill suggests that the regulations of the Council and the Council (EU) No. 596/2014 on marketing. In chapter 7 of an article with the bill, there are direct comments that the Ministry received from the bill as published in government consultations as well as that of the Ministry Department. The committee, however, did not get any reviews on the subject. Changes made by the majority of the part are turning, including to 3rd pars. The bill. According to the 22nd floor. The Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council for marketing fraud must be identified by Member States as competent authority, which ensures the implementation of its laws. In the 3rd. The bill tells us that the SEC is a legal authority under the law and that it is being followed. A similar provision can be found in the second primary measure under consideration by the committee. A bill can be submitted to a set of key information documents due to certain investment products for general investors. In its review of Iceland's Secret Bank and the Department of Economic and Economic Memory on this matter, it is discussed whether it is the right thing to specify Iceland's Secret Bank or the SEC as the legal authority after the union of the institutions, but, as most of us know, the SEC has become part of the Federal Bank today. So the committee feels that the Scrollblad is this legal authority, as well as the other earlys that test it. There are some other changes. A financial and economic memo to the Committee since April 25, 2021 suggests some changes in the bill that the greater part has passed and makes its own. These changes are mainly technical, for correction and for increasing clarity. Even so. increasing clearly is added to 2.g. The bill referred to the decision of the Land Court, where certain regulations of the procedure have been instituted. Other than that, the majority refer to the Ministry's memo on exposé of change. The majority also suggest that the value of the bill will be September 1st, 2021. All the other changes the greater part suggests are technical and not intended to have material influence. In view of the above, the more part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Under this opinion, literature is added to my background. Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Hjálmar Bogi Hafliðason, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u64	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program with a greater part of the employment committee's legislation on the change of travel law. The question has been discussed and consulted by Sigrún Einarsdóttir and The Heimir of Skarphéðinsson the son of the Professional and Neon Department, Elías Bj. Gíslason from the Travel Office, Gunnar Valur Sveinsson from the Group of Tourism and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, chairman of CREEP Board. The committee received reviews from a travel agency, U.S. National Institutes, Peritoneal Protection, Traveller's Association, and Director Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. The bill presents a change in travel law, No. 54/2020. A reimbursement is being made, with the time of new travel, with a quarter of 5,000 dollars coming from June 1, 2021 to 31 August 2021. Travel laws went into effect on June 23, 2020, but based on these, individuals who met conditions 1.mg. 1st par. The law of digital 5,000 bucks. Member States which can be used to provide services from version day to date and by 31st December 2020 in the enterprises as defined in 2mg. 1st par. The law. The duration of this travel was extended to May 2021, sr. the changes in the content of 31 December 2020. The first version of travel by June 1, 2021, is expected to fail. In view of the above, it is important that there is a clearer understanding of the time and timing of the older one's visit and the changes in the materials. For the Committee it came to the view that the duration of the earlier travel and the new might be extended. Travel had a positive effect on tourism, and with extensions, those working in travel services at high hour would be allowed room for the use of their new move. The Commission agrees on the importance of tourism now more than a year after the crown virus began. The restoration of travel during the summer period is a factor in increasing domestic demand and therefore an important part of the tourism demand. The committee also says, as a bill report shows, the extension of the time period is announced to the EFTA monitoring agency and subject to its consent. The committee suggests that the period of new travel will be extended in September 2021. Other European Commission proposals are technical and not intended to have material influence. The changes we have are 1st par. put it this way: 5 mg. 1st par. The law adds a new sentence, as follows: The exact period of travel is 2021 between June 1 and September 30. [...] Following the word "reorganization " in 2mgr. 2.g. come: or be taken into account, or have gone for bankruptcy. [...] Subjection Article 3 paragraph. Puts it this way: If a travel gift has a time interval until 31 May 2021 at that time. Case one. 5 mg. 1st par. not new for June 1st, 2021, it falls. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson and Ísleifsson Izzekisson, who signed this opinion in accordance with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Ólafur Ísleifsson and Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson are signing this opinion in advance. Under this opinion, write why. Councilmen Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Mnæfjörn Gunnarsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, in advance, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, in advance. This is the opinion presented today. I'm going to request as the executive of the case that the job committee return between the 2nd and 3rd. There is now information that needs to be cleared up by the Committee on the State Rules of ESAs, which may be used for a period of time. We have received information that just fell in, that even though we had received information on the ESA's website about the existence of September 30, the government rules of government support were up to date. So I believe it's the right thing to say as an executive of the case that we call it between the 2nd and 3rd. to get these material things straight. The idea is that we'll discuss in a material way why we should cut on now June 1 and move the funding into a new travel process, 2 as we call it, and use the money we're used to in this. I was studying the travel service levels earlier, and then it seemed, if I remember correctly, I've taken out of the system over a billion but used less than 800 million. Then there is the thought of using this through the budgets we agreed on last year, and financial resources - moving it to our new trip. What will also be evident if we consider that in the past few months, there has been a small increase in the number of people who have made good use of this 5,000 k. travel administration. Some 206,000 people out of 200,000 have taken on their trip, but some 20,000,300,000 have not benefited from it. If I recall, there may be some 176,000 people who have made full use of it, some who have used part of it, and others have not taken anything to heart through Digital Iceland. It's just a memory of what I was reading on the travel board. These things need to be straightened out, especially what is going on with ESA rules and what time limit we can apply to the situation. So I think it's normal, as I told you earlier, as an executive in the case that we get the case back into a professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to get the complete sense of what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u65	President. Thank you. An executive for his chart, and he rejoices that he has taken advantage of the opportunity to bring the matter back into the committee. He correctly explained that we were in need. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson has agreed to this committee party. We're in agreement with this case, we support this case, and that's what our company does, the Central Party. But at least we'd have at least... She wanted to test it very thoroughly whether it was possible for, like a why. A senator mentioned, the state - strength rules to extend the older travel so that it would continue as long as the new one is being considered. So I put in, Mr. President, that I'm having a bit of a difficult to take into the mouth of this word, travel. This case began with a travel check, so I know how to do it a lot better. This, of course, is financed by tax, and tax money is being returned to thepayers' pockets with a view that they use it to buy services from tourism companies. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is willing to support the proposal or the idea that the earlier travel will be extended so long as the new one, provided that we would not be able to interfere with the state - strength directives and that this will be approved at the scene of ESA, the European Commission. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u66	Mr. President. I'd also like to take the case back to the committee to get it straight with the government rules. As mentioned in my case earlier, the 80,000 who have yet to receive a travel trip - it has been very slow during the millions of months, so perhaps it is unlikely that these parties will draw to themselves 5,000 bucks. Through Digital Iceland. When we give the government funds and financial resources, it is reasonable that it is possible for everyone to take advantage of the relevant resources. It is, in effect, being directed in an effort to put it into use for support. As we have seen, it is possible, as we have now, that 650 million used to be used by 1,500 million who were approved for this project on budget one year and in budgets. By getting this into the two travelers, it is more likely that the group who have already taken advantage of their travel will be able to make two uses. It is unlikely that this 80,000 people, or 75,000, or whatever it is now, who have not attended their gift will take advantage of it. I think that's a normal thought. Let's go through this on the committee for a minute. What I'm primarily calling for right now, by getting it back into the committee, is this with the ESA's state-of-the-art policy, the authority on the 30th of September or out of the year, and everything in this matter that has to do with the full set of rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u67	Mr. President. Of course, it is vital that we be able to work within the limits of our international commitments, but the thought behind extending the earlier journey is that much of it is ruined. With the people who were confronted with the efforts of 10,000 bucks. might be an added incentive to take advantage of this, more possibilities would be available. Let us realize that travel is largely a business, perhaps mostly for the most part. It is an example of what our personal enterprise can accomplish. In fact, this article grew up in amazing hours to become part of the country's professional markets, the main source of currency, employment, and income production. When this diagnosis of shock, as we know, occurs because of the sensibilities of the crown virus epidemic, it is only worthy of public opinion that it will be handsome when it is asked to rise up again. Of course, we have very much to blame for the rise of tourism by Icelanders. If this were possible because of the rules of state strength we've been discussing here, this double travel would be a very unambiguous tool for the article. That was for the reasons we had. paritaprevir Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson proposed the adjustment when the first session was approved that it would not be 5,000 k. That's 15,000. - to counter this shock and raise the article so that it could become a groundwork for employment, currency and income production in the country again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u68	Mr. President. I would love to start talking about economics in tourism, this is what you educated yourself, including. Unable to open wpa_supplicant wpa_supplicant configuration. Of course, in 2018, a 42% payout came from tourism, 8.5% of land production. This article is of utmost importance. That 5,000 bucks. You see, we are motivated, but we have done so many other things about traveling, much larger in the context. Above all, it is the motivation to remind you of the possibilities there is. What I was saying earlier about why we didn't just extend the present gift, and then some people might have 10,000 bucks. which they did not have new until September 30, it was that they would identify the 80,000 members of this group. Are these Icelanders who live abroad, who have not been concerned about this, older citizens or whatever? But what comes first to support the tourism, the amazingly important article that I have full faith in rising up high and fast again, is to get this budget out more organized, bringing the funds into the new 5,000 bucks. Involved with people who take advantage of it possibly, making it work out better. We don't know exactly what the number will be about the month. I'm assuming there's a little discussion about this and that those who own 5,000 bucks. In that case, consider getting out and making use of them, going to a restaurant, or staying in a room, or whatever. I think this is more useful by doing this in the way we preach here, there is actually a greater chance that those who may be using it will benefit from the financial resources that are present in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u69	Mr. President. I decided to participate only in this discussion of the renewal of what has been called a traveler. It was interesting to listen to a conversation between them. A chronicler and a member of Parliaments to see whether to extend the time or whether to extend the current gift. Of course, we can have differing views on this subject. I encourage people to take advantage of the rest of May's rest until it expires. I agree with that, and I think it might be a little interesting to hear who are the ones who have not taken advantage of this gift. I have personally heard that people have said: " I don't need this money from a trust fund, I can take care of myself. It's all right, and it's better if they get used to something else. There are all kinds of opinions on this matter, and it should not be forgotten that, of course, part of the explanation may be that we are limited, hardened, and otherwise hardened. After the summer, people may have been moving less, and they can be part of the explanation that the journey was not new. I agree with that, and I think it might be interesting to try to identify who was not using it. I agree that, of course, it's an inspiration. This is a catalyst for faster resistance. There is also a message in not keeping the travel in very long periods of time. It is also good to try to get the money to work in the economy as soon as possible. I agree, though, that it was good to add those months to the point of travel until the end of September. It may be the end of the summer. People's vacations are near the end of September. But I think we'll have to try to think that the faster this goes out, the faster the travel service gets. I believe that now that the vaccination is so successful as it is, it is also part of the fact that we are not likely to experience what happened when the summer was over and we had to put together the sails and service companies and tourism companies had to close again. I sure hope we don't have to face the fact that it will happen again as the summer passes by. What I wanted to include in the discussion - without encouraging people to take advantage of this check and make happy memories with their family, for this is important, 5,000 bucks. importance, don't belittle it, as it has been heard, that it's nothing and little can be done for this - but I encourage companies to do as many did to their last check, to add to it so that there will be an even greater incentive for people to take advantage of their services. There were a lot of companies that did. It would also be interesting to consider, for example. Based on the fact that there is an analysis of the utilisation of the prescriber, whether it is relevant to where people choose to use it. I think that, of course, people may say no or do things differently, and this is an incentive to take advantage of the prescription for some good entertainment, art events, or other things that people may not allow themselves to do from day to day. But at least I wanted to put it in this discussion to encourage company in travel service, and those who intend to accept the move to add it, to invite people to add a little more. Still there are companies who do it with those old ones, that I know. I think it must result in an increase in the resources and visits to the companies it makes. A respectable president. It will be interesting to see what comes out of this with a valid time if there is something that is not yet available, even if it is stated here. A pilot. It is likely that a new government will not be established when the check is due to fail, so it may be wise to extend the length of time. I think it's better to try to get this money into the economy as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u70	Mr. President. I decided to take it personally. This is happening in a very special way. I requested that the case be recorded back into the job committee between the 2nd and 3rd. but the information being received is that if we added and extended to travel one, we would probably need to be authorized by the ESA and the whole process would have been delayed. It's true to keep that in mind in this matter, and that's why I want to call it back. But we need to resolve the matter quickly so that it works at the end of the month. If you had been getting the information you were reading on the phone right now, you might have just finished it on a vote right away. But everything's fine, it's fine to have the case in here. We get the final clear that we don't want to interfere with any ESA warrants that may take a long time. The summer is the time when this activity and the Icelandic tourism will start. So it's a good thing to do, and we're gonna get this thing going. Discussing 5,000K, 10,000 k. Fifteen thousand. is just as she is. I'd probably have been able to discuss this myself with the Committee at the time, whether it could be higher and all of that. But it's just a decision. As I learned from the introduction to the previous talk, a good work has been done, and in general, there is a great and good solidarity in the traveling work that has been done in recent years. We agreed to bring you one first in the budget of March 23rd last year. The process was scheduled for years, but we extended it to the end of May. Well, that's quite a story, then. But not all of this time have made full use of it. I just wanted to take the opportunity to get this information to here in the discussion, but I was and I were. A senator is connected to the travel service and he understands this, I think, all right in the big movie.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u71	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and thank you. A senator for the record. In view of the reinstatement of the case, since information has arrived, I think it should be possible to resolve matters quickly from the committee again and into Congress. I agree that even though there is now a foundation that did not exist last year, there is always a certain preparation. I think we don't have information about why it wasn't more new, as I traced before, and there may be many reasons why. After that, I think maybe this will be an annual event for the next few years, I don't know, I don't necessarily believe it - it'll be one piece of the kickback, like the old. To support the tourism arrangement, a senator traced his background. I think this case, i.e. getting your travel out at an hour's shortest, should be the exit point. I don't think there's any particular reason to extend anything to that. As was also said, it is now all that time, and yet the usefulness is not more that may tell us some story, but not all of it. That's why I hope that right away the work will start trying to get my hands on who's not taking advantage of it. I don't know if it can be done, if you have to do some surveys or if there's anything to follow through on it. Of course, personal protection is rich and difficult to deal with. It would be interesting if there were some groups that could be found that these things were not exactly useful to others. Well, anyway, it's a good thing. I hope we get it out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u72	Mr. President. I agree that an examination of who made this work and who wasn't very interesting. It is really part of this project. In this process, we discussed on the job committee that it was very interesting to see who took advantage of this, the variables exist. What's possible in there is the Personal Protection Act and other things. In fact, it is all that the State is strengthening and promoting and helping that one come from a treasure. Of course, it is good to have a good overview and a transparent view of it all. As an amateur member of travel service research, it certainly made me very interesting to see how these funds have slipped out. That is so much like so many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u73	Mr. President. I won't be much longer. I agree with that, and because the University of Akureyri has been known for its research in tourism through the years, I think this is just the perfect opportunity to try to control these factors. Well, we know which companies they've got this travel check in to, but not who they're using. It's a worthwhile project, and also interesting, I think, for the state funds to see whatever money we're using in this case is going and who it is who has chosen not to use them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u74	Mr. President. I'm going to do a few words on this bill and some committee opinion. In many ways, traveling is a successful idea, not to be denied. She's certainly caught a goal, if you don't mind me saying it. Despite being a very small amount for each person who is going to take advantage of it, an entire 5,000 bucks, she certainly hit the target. Today, governments intend to repeat the game with their successful gifts to taxpayers. That's kind of what I was going to talk about. The reason I've come up here in the platform is because of these gifts, which are wrapped around the payments that have really bothered me. Mr. President. In fact, people are being taken and given their tax money back to each person, as it were, to a citizen's rights or to something like that. They're taking the taxes and bringing them back and calling it a gift. It's natural, it's all the wrong name. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Ishoffas, when he mentioned that first it was called a travel check that I feel is a much more attractive name than a traveler's name, now or a travel strength or something like that of the gift camp that the bill is placed in. It gets on my nerves, I have to admit it. It's been quite successful, and it's put a little life into the country in the last summer, hotels, restaurants, and the people with whom they could use their resources and how good it was to support their tourism. As is the case today, Mr. President, the epidemic is much better to come to an end, but the government, of course, would want to use this good idea and bring the people back to the gift of their money, the money that had just been charged with paying for it. I don't make comments about it. There's still little work to do in the tourism service, and I'm sure it's all right, at least For the next few weeks, perhaps some more until the summer. I expect the epidemic's going to grow rapidly over the next few weeks. What has been the cost? Given the pleasure of this, it has cost only a fortune. There are some 7,700,800 million that the state's budget has gone out for tourism one, i.e. The traveller received last year has been valid until the end of this month. 7700,800 million, which are just pennies, given the attention of the case. 5,000 bucks. does not have large amounts of money. When people go on a trip, buy food in a restaurant, or stay in a hotel, it's just a fraction of the cost. It's not enough for half a night, it's not enough for a meal. That is why I believe in a suggestion that was presented here from earlier on. paritaprevir Ólafur, the son of Ísleifsson is to be accepted back into the committee. It would be good to take it back into the committee and seek to agree that those who did not take advantage of the earlier visit will be extended to this summer so that they can have 10,000 bucks. for a provision in the summer. It would be a long time before a one-night stay at a hotel for the person, and it would increase the use and, of course, also in travel services. So I strongly support it. What prevents this is, as the report says, the EFTA (EU). It depends on their consent. It is so strange that we are standing here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders and setting a law for this country, which will depend on a surveillance facility in Europe whether this gift, 5,000 k, will be extended by three months or four. In Europe it is agreed that governments in Iceland can extend a four - month gift to those who have not used it. Where's the legislature? Is that completely out of hand, Mr. President? That's sad. I like the idea of extending this first gift, ruined a gift. Some 100,000 people are going to take advantage of this trip from last year. About half of the people who received it last year have not benefited from it, so this would increase the quality of tourism, give companies an injection, and put their sails in order to keep their heads through this difficult period of time when visitors have dramatically reduced their numbers. It would just be good, so I'll back it up. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said he would not personally want to extend this, regardless of the reason. Is it because they don't turn to Europe for approval or are they ashamed of it? Of course, it's the monologue, Mr. President, to extend this, that's just obvious. Those who did not have housebound last year and who could not take advantage of the gift, perhaps because of disease prevention, perhaps because they were trapped in self - style, why not let people take advantage of all the amount, double travel, for the summer? Is it because they are so afraid of the power out in Europe, or do they not feel like it's too late? There were questions about who would benefit from this and who would have benefited from it. I'm most worried about where it's new. The figures in the report show that this is new in a very different way around the country. Areas that have been hit, such as the Northern West and the West and the East, are not getting much through this travel. That's what worries me. I'm much more worried about that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u75	Mr. President. It was widely arranged and somewhat fragmented here. To that end, the person mentioned here requested that the matter be accepted back into the discussion committee. I think it happened earlier. With regard to our taxes, what has happened in recent years has been 60, 70, 80 billion. That's 30 billion of them. So it is really the industry itself that has created huge tax pay for the state. No matter how we view it, travel service has been creating 8◯9% of the government's tax revenues. I also came by to make sure that we don't delay it by making further inquiries from state strategist regulations to further extend a trip to one that we extended for the New Year's Eve. Since then, it has been a whole year that the public has been able to take advantage of the move. We would like to contribute to the success of the funding and also encourage the final days of travel alone that the 74,000 people who have failed to take advantage of it may get it to someone else or take advantage of it in some way. It was far and wide, but I wanted to make some rights. For me, it's not a big deal whether it's a tourist or a travel check, I think it's the least of a talk. [[The president calls.]] But it was under heavy pressure by reason of reason. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-17-96.u76	Mr. President. I don't know if there was a question. Senator. Thank you. paritaprevir Yet, Friðbertsson, the Njáll of Trausti, for these ideas and comments. He requested that the case be reinstated. I've declared my pleasure to the extent that it will be done to check the possibility of a trip from the previous end of the trip to the end of this bill. Like what? Of course, a senator mentioned it will be more useful to people than before, as I came to speak in my speech to have 10,000 bars arranged. To one who had the gift destroyed, and to those who used it would have their five thousand also. That's how it's more useful to everyone. It's more useful to the people, it's useful to travel, it's a source of employment and services while we're going through the last steps of this epidemic. We agree on the use and need of this. This has given us a great deal. With the name Traveler or a travel check, I was just pointing out that it was a little crazy. I did not associate this with the tourism services itself and how much they have contributed to the nation's farm, which they have, of course, done for the past few years. It is a huge income that has streamed into national construction for the past few years and in reality completely turned the national economy for the better after the collapse of the bank, so we are in a position quite different now than before and in the position of coping with tragedy like this. [[The president calls.]]
