ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u1	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of documents with a change proposal on behalf of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for key information documents due to certain investment products for the general investors. The short version is that there was only one review, and that was from the Bank of Iceland. The bill suggests that the regulations of the Council and the Council No. 1286/2014 of key information documents for packed and insurance-related investment products for general investors, called the PRIIPs protocol, will be introduced into Icelandic rights. In its review, Iceland's Secret Bank proposes a set-up of the law's values in a special law. By doing so, there will be no doubt about which parties and investment products are involved. It's going to make a lot of difference. It also points to the view that the Navy is the legal authority in the understanding of the Regulation. In this regard, it says that the FDA is part of Iceland's Federal Bank and that the bank is carrying the legal projects entrusted to the UN. Therefore, the SEC is not an institution, rather, a legal reference to the surveillance of the National Bank. Mr. President. This committee then follows the appropriate adjustments made by me, as well as other members of the committee's opinion. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy's signing this opinion in advance, but the rest of the dog. The members of the council shall sign: Óli Björn Kárason, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, in advance, and Hjálmar Bogi, the master's Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u2	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Commission for a panel of members with a bill-changing motion proposal to correct de-mutation laws, central reforms, and consequences, No. 15/2018 (decrease in weight). As in the case I recommended earlier, there was only one report from Iceland's Secret Bank. The Council and Council No. 648/2012, on OTC derivatives, centrally shaped and derivatives, as well as the E MIR, were given legislation in this country by law on de-mutation, central reforms, and derivatives. The European Parliament and Council Regulation 2019/834 on a change in Regulation No. 648/2012 as for the delay of the institutional organisation, the requirements for reporting, the measures for slowing the risk of OTC-derived agreements as a centrally designed strategists, registration and monitoring of the conduct of metabolic records and the requirements for the derivatives, EIRIR Re fats, stratified the change in EMIM to maintain the aim of ensuring a transparent exchange and authority clearance by the Rapporteur, but in some cases, there will be a lack of obligation and compromise to simplify their disposition and report on these costs. The bill suggests changes to the law No. 15/2018 to lead to Icelandic just the changes that result from the EMI Refect Protocol. It's in 2nd gear. The bill is suggested that the SEC be one legal authority in the sense of 22 st. The Regulation, in place of the SEC and the Bank of Iceland. The review of Iceland's Secret Bank shows that it should be noted that the Council is a legal authority in the sense of the Regulation. In this regard, it says that the FDA is part of Iceland's Federal Bank and that the bank is carrying the legal projects entrusted to the UN. Therefore, the SEC is not an institution, rather, a legal reference to the surveillance of the National Bank. So suggests that the Council of Iceland, instead of the SEC, will become a legal authority under the law. In the above, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill by appropriate change. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Óli Björn's Kárason, Jón Steindór Valmar's Valdimarsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Hjálmar Bogdi the Bogi's Hafliðason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u3	A respectable president. I hereby present with the National Committee on the Environment and Transport Committee on Environment and Transport for the European Commission's legislation. The issue of this 151th legislation is the issue of the 9th legislature, so this committee has discussed most of the Parliament's winter, has brought visitors and has reviewed the reports that have been received. The bill suggests that the total law on the Icelandic national capital will be adopted. According to the bill's definition of that term, it includes head trauma, which has directed appeal to Iceland, e.g. . is. The aims of the legislation are, among other things, the aims of the procedure. setting up a framework for the operation of a registration agency which oversees national capital by direct reference to Iceland. The work is now a single registration agency, but the majority of it points out that there is no basis for more registration agencies to take up the job and the job at the same time, since it is assumed in the bill that an attorney can function as a registration agency with certain conditions fulfilled. The nominees are listed on five pages, so I will not review all of them all, but the Committee's review is closed, sealed, and registrated on domains and only dealt with the legal file. I'm going to use the time to review the adjustments and start with the changes made in the provisional regulations to the premium of the state funds. The provision for temporary I in the bill holds that the state's budget should be premiumed to all parts of the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC. An article with the bill will refer to the security and public interests of which the company's services are required for the normal effectiveness of the Internet on the land. Then it is necessary to make arrangements to ensure that the operation has a legal home in the country under Icelandic jurisdiction. This arrangement was found to be somewhat critical and particularly from 72 C.E. onward. The constitution for the protection of property rights. So I'm just going to go into the panel discussion on that subject. Clearly, the premarital rights based on laws look to the limitation of the 72th stremation rights spent. The constitution. The law states that the right of property is holy and that no one should be obliged to give up his property unless the need for the public is greater. If it's a law command you have to do it, and you're going to have a full price. Since there is legal rights and purchases, the purchases of the same terms as the buyer have offered the Commission merely assessed the third requirement, i.e. that property rights should not be impaired unless the need for public interest is required. The majority point is that the registration room is a caregiver who works to register a domain name under a special cover. It is an international agency that is responsible for the distribution of capitals, including Iceland's national capital. Iceland has been assigned one national capital,. is, and at present the Internet is in Iceland, ISNIC, the only person who makes registration, business, and control of it. The oversight and management that the registration agency has at the head leg also includes the conversion of the capital in an IP number, which allows the operation of a DNS to be taken into account. Then the majority point out that the State has special interests in caring for the distribution of domains. The money. Is, in effect, like a certain letter material for Iceland and can affect other Icelandic domains, including the state, if such sites are used in connection with crime, terrorism, or warfare. Other countries have the right to defend them and can easily protect them from harm to the State, to others in society, and especially to trust in Icelandic domains. Based on the above, the importance of national registration centres for the effectiveness of the network in this country is undisputed in the opinion of the greater part. The Internet is among the most important sources of Icelandic society, and it realizes that if its natural function is impaired in this country, it would have unexpected consequences for the industry, the security of the state, and the community as a whole. In view of all of this, the estimate of the greater part is that the importance of public interest is behind the terms of the bill's premium and the conditions of 72. g. The Constitution of public need is thus fulfilled. The committee took a good time to consider this matter, and during the progress of the situation the committee gained a special opinion on the law. It was concluded that it was uncertain whether the arrangements met the target and were made to comment on its implementation. In view of these, the greater part contributes to a change in the arrangement in an effort to clarify and sharpen the legal rights of a state fund. First, it is suggested that the prenuptial right of the state funds also applies to changing control over legislation as owns stocks in ISNIC, i.e. The United States will give the prenuptial rights to its shareholders in ISNIC. This helps to prevent shareholders from avoiding the premarital rights, for example. to hand over their money to private society and then to sell stock in the private part of the company, not the stock that is subject to premium rights, as the bill stated in the bill. At the same time, the owner of the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC, is ordered to report to the national tax; and to the Post and Communications Office directly and indirectly its holdings in accordance with the law on the registration of real owners, No. 82/2019. The majority feel that it is proper to make a clear as to the way the premarital rights should be offered and the length of time for the Icelandic state to answer. Therefore, why not add some of the extra items to the provisional arrangement to make two new paragraphs of the material? It requires that the purchase oer in the company or stock of the parties with a letter in the company should be reported to the post and communications agency immediately, no later than 48 hours after the offer came to the seller's senses. It will then be decided that a contract should be signed by the post and telecommunication agency, under a minister who has a case of communications, on behalf of the premium authorities, for approval. The highest state fund to respond to the premium offer should be 60 days from the time the offer was received by the minister. The majority stress that the seller is therefore obliged to announce all offers to the post and communications agency but the premium will only work when a binding agreement is established. Whether or not an offer has become binding, post-communications agency will request confirmation whether or not an agreement has come up. Regarding the duration of the delay, the greater portion refers to the premium of a 5 mg per month's premium. Thirty-seven. Law on Nature Protection, No. 60/2013. With reference to the rich public and security interests that are prepared, the share will contribute to the purchase of items committed to premarital rights is not being carried out while the continuation of the premarital rightsor is passing, the provision for premarital prices is not yet completed, or judicial hearings about the permafrost is being passed. A similar provision can be found in the 17th chapter. a competitive song, No. 44/2005, the fact that fusion does not occur during the Contesting Board. Finally, a new provision for temporary purchase is provided by the greater part of the bill, which is based on Article 30. August), No. 81/2004. The decision is even aims to deal with it if the seller and buyer negotiate a very high level of tokens in order to dissuade the bidder from entering the contract. If the prenuperator believes that prices are clearly unfair, he can demand a judgment evaluation of normal prices. The majority suggest that cooks be judged in the province of Reykjavík. They determine the cost of assessment and how it works. The majority points out that a review of that decision can be made for judgment, cr. 66. g. Treated Privately, No. 91/1191. Finally, the majority contributes to judicial matters that lead to a conflict of premium prices after the evaluation of prompt treatment according to the XIX guidelines. section of the Treaty on private matters. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and not intended to have material influence, except two that I intend to cross. I have explained the major change that has to do with strengthening the premium and temporary regulations of the bill, but as for the two changes, another is to the Constitution committee. It suggests a change that explains the obligation of a registration agency to operate a ruling committee. Regarding the export, the majority of the members feel that it is normal to look at the rules that INSIC currently operates, so that the committee is appointed by one to three members according to the nature of the case. A greater proportion contributes to a change of material at 8 pars. At the same time, there is a slight change in 3 mg. 10th par. to be consistent. It is also the right and duty of rights in the keeping of mental rights, where it is suggested that the right to use a site is in agreement with the rights and laws to his interests and would not compromise the rights of others, such as the right of mind. This suggests that because of the constant overlap of domains and mental rights, especially product signals, it is necessary to show in the directive that a site registration is unable to counter the intellectual rights of others. In a broad sense, meditation rights should be considered, since other rights other than brands, such as the right of an author's right and the right to a title, may be considered in the use of words or phrases as a site. Then came the issue, the rights, and the duties of rights, of Article 2 and 3. Section 12. where it is stated that the domain name is not to be associated with criminal behavior or to violate law, should conform to Iceland's international commitments and not be killed to damage the country's reputation otherwise. It would not be clear what would be the responsibility of the rightful domain under the directive, but there would be no explanation as to how to interpret the directive in the bill. It would not be clear how this should be carried out, and it would be hard to see how such a site name should be established without its use. The majority agree with these comments and suggest that 2nd and 3rd verses be given. ... goout. Then there is one more change in the closing and maintenance of the registered domains. It is shown in a bill report that for the closing and maintenance of existing sites, this warrant should be used, the domain should be used to promote illegal material or material that encourages criminal action in general penalties and alleged offenses that could be punished for up to two years or more. However, the report shows that for the release to be used, it needs to be serious. In view of this and in the light of the criticism, the greater part contributes to a change in the arrangement, in view of the alleged violation of prison punishment, up to six years instead of two years. It is assessed by the Committee that appreciation for the application of the law, as it is in the bill, will be essentially reversed and the committee puts it to that effect. Changes to the bill have been noted, and as previously said, tiny technical changes were also made. The greater part suggests that the bill will be adopted by the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Under the heading "Lineik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðrisson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, and Jón Gunnarsson, who was absent from the case but who is already a chronicle of 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Then Andrés Ingi Jónsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to have a few words on this other fine subject, which is about the Icelandic national capital. As many of us in Iceland may not know, it's a private firm, a private property, which takes the national capital. is. Not that the Lawgiver would make a conscious decision that such arrangements were best. Rather, it somehow happened just through a series of incidents in his day when Internet use was changing in Iceland early this century. Therefore, I like to see there prenup in the bill, which includes that if INSNIC, that fine company, is ever sold or more of it, the state has the right to premium and has the opportunity to gain control over this site and reach it. That's just the way it is, if we speak Icelandic, to the national capital. is not someone's personal matter. Now there is a technician here who knows the technical explanation behind what. Is, what DNS entry is, what DNS server is and how the arrangement is technical. That doesn't change it. Is in human society a symbol of Iceland. It's the reality we live in, so I think it's reasonable that the state has at least something to say about the arrangement around it. Is-loops. But I also want to say that I can imagine a number of situations in which INSIC, who are now holding this site, could have reacted worse or did less than it is. In fact, in many ways it can be said that ISNIC has been a great responsibility when it comes to how it works for registration. There is one mistake I remember ISNIC made, which it corrected. This was about when Islam's or ISIS wrote down the khilafah domain and held out its disgusting propaganda. At that time, the site was closed off by ISNIC, based on the violation of public law. The person mentioned above began by criticizing this decision on the grounds that if the registration had taken place because of the fact that it did. is simply, it didn't mean saislamic State, it meant Iceland, but then I wouldn't have anything to do with the registration to check, I think it's a perfunctory. However, it was and it is decided that the intention of applying universal law as the basis for registration is to be compromised. The danger is because there are a lot of bans in Iceland that my knowledge cannot lead to automatic deduction. There is also 95 C.E. general penalties dealing with insults to foreign rulers. It was forbidden to dump over here on President Donald Trump of the United States, as did the one here; on Twetter, on Facebook, and in pontu. It is forbidden by Icelandic law, 95 gr. track No. 19/190, general penalties. I broke those laws. I did it on purpose, I did it knowing with full intention and will do it again when I'm through the council, repeated, and I'll encourage others to do it and encourage others to break it when it's necessary, because I think it's important. If I put up a web to criticize the fasse and other brutalitys in that terrible President Donald Trump, I would hardly feel that the domain would be taken away because the cause there was a violation of Icelandic penal law. It's just that in human society, a respectable president, we have to be able to communicate contrary to the will of others, otherwise freedom of expression means nothing. And this is not a stroke that I think is appropriate for ISNIC to take, end, for praise of INSNIC, brought it back, and claimed that after this discussion, it prefers to reassign the registration on the legitimate reason. is simply not supposed to mean a·lislamaloc state, -- is simply not meant to be. - Mm-hm. Then there is more to product fraud or something like that, but it does not touch the right to express itself or to express itself without having this particular domain, the capital. is. That, as I pointed out to them, it takes no national capital to scatter unhappily like the one on this disgusting page. The site can be housed anywhere. Actually, taking down one site is a completely ruined battle to stem the hatred propaganda of the Kingdom of Islam or similar terrorist organizations. It's a lost fight in advance, a respectable president. But, of course, it's not about what's happening in itself. It's about what. is the national capital, its population and what people expect when they use the domain. As you might hear, I feel that there are some rules around this country. But I also think it's important that they don't live on well, and just close a site on the grounds that it violates the law, that's why there's so much against the law, because there's just so much forbidden in Iceland. There are so many people in Iceland who have to be in prison for two years, but they still need to be able to communicate without risking that site to be taken down, regardless of whether it prevents the expression itself or not. Icelanders are supposed to be able to have their own Icelandic web and shit all they want about Donald Trump. It's just a self - righteous part of freedom of expression to be able to say and show a lot of things that most people hate very much. I think it's very important freedom. In this legislation, only what should be done about lawbreakers and b-duty 11. The bill discusses that the police, prior to a court order, require a registration room, including ISNIC, a site closed under circumstances where the site is used to promote illegal material or material that encourages criminal action involving general penalties and alleged offenses may involve imprisonment up to two years or more. Now there are fractures where, for example, I think it's normal for study purposes or to avoid harm, something like that, taking down a domain, e.g. On the basis of organized terrorism or organized violations or child pornography, child abuse, or so on. Then the two - year line of punishment is narrow, including falls there below the 95th grade. The penalties I mentioned earlier in the matter of getting the fuck out of Donald Trump and other Fascist shoals. So I'm glad to see that the committee suggests that this penalty line will be raised for six years. Then there are much more serious offenses than what I mentioned here to offend foreign princes. I think it's a lot more natural, and I'm glad that the committee took those notes. Of course, all of us hope that we will never come to this law. Yes, it is a law that you seldom want to see as a basis for applying. But if this penalty had remained for two years, there is no question in my mind that sooner or later it would be used, and it could have been unsatisfactory and that mine knows there is nothing to be wrong with. It is only to be clear that there is good reason and, of course, that there is a purpose to be considered. That's mostly what I had to check on the bill earlier when we were discussing it. I have to mention one thing, though, just to have mentioned it, which is final part 12. The bill. It further says, with the permission of a president: A site name has to be in line with Iceland's international commitments and not to be killed in other ways to damage the country's reputation. Now I can't claim anything on behalf of the police or ISNIC or the Icelandic government whether anything that they here might put on an Icelandic Web site is a failure to strengthen or not harm the country's reputation. It may well be, for example. that, in the past, my comment on fassian brutal Donald Trump damages Iceland's reputation in terms of someone. When I read this law, I don't feel quickly at all as to what is meant. However, I read it much more in context, e.g. The fact that terrorist organizations like the State of Islam list here. ... and thus damage the reputation of Iceland and the domain. In this respect, I understand these inconsistencies in that context. I'm not really worried about this or anything, really, if I'm saying it exactly as it is. On the contrary, it would be rather intriguing to see how this discussion would be applied if something were placed on a web that would be considered damaging the reputation of the country but would not violate the general law of penalties. This law would then be used to match the registration of that site. That would even be intriguing. But I don't think this is gonna be a problem, but I'd like to have mentioned it, just in case I'm wrong about it, and that one day this is gonna be a problem. At least they'll have at least one One of the senators standing up here notices, at least. Other than that, I have to say that I support this case with the advance notice that I have not ignored the modification proposals or explanations for every provision as it stands at this point in the treatment. I'll back up and thank you. Environmental and transport committees for their work and particularly for dealing with the joint. 1 1. The bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u5	The president has to admit that he is thinking about things that were presented in a sermon. A senator, of course, respects the senator's freedom of expression to speak what he thinks, but he may feel that it is inappropriate to encourage the law here from the council's hearing chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u6	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in the multi property law, No. 26/1994. A moving man in addition to me is a dog. paritaprevir Sæland hareland. In 1st. says 33 C.E. Or in the law of dogs and cats, it was said, The privacy of the cat in the pantry does not depend on the approval of other owners. The housemate can establish more detailed rules about dogs and cats at a meeting with the approval of all owners, as they are normal, objective and equal. The partner may agree with the approval of 2/3 parts of the owners to ban animal control if it causes other people to be severely disturbed, disturbed, and disturbed, and the owner of the animal refuses to remedy it.◯ Two. says: - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, In the 3rd. says: ▪ The following changes will occur in 33 C.E. The code of the law: a. The words "T" and "Thirty-three. " f◯ to 1 mg. ... willpassout. b. Case one. 4 mg. Saying, Now that the owner of an animal breaks much or repeated against his duty and reminders, his housemate is not able to make a decision. Number 10. B-joins 1.mg. 41 st. Refuse animals with approval of 2/3 parts of owners and to remove the animal from the house. In Comb 4. says: Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. a number. B-joins 1.mg. 41 st. The law says, "If an animal is causing significant discomfort, discomfort, and disturbance to other citizens and its owner refuses to remedy it, she does not. " 3 mg Thirty-three. e, or if the owner of a animal breaks heavily and repeatedly against his duty and reminders does not have an effect, dr. 4 mg. Thirty-three. g.◯ And on the 5th floor. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. From earliest times, pets have followed man. Iceland has always been an expensive friend, spending much time on pets. In spite of this, laws over the years have limited the rights of pet owners, many of them deeply troubled. With the turn of 1900 C.E., society changed rapidly, and people moved to more urban areas. Many took pets from the countryside, and as the population grew, such animals grew to urban areas. In 1924, there was a ban on dogs in Reykjavík. The ban was designed to stem the slag disease and to reduce the number of stray dogs on the streets of the city. During the decades that followed, the authorities were busy getting dogs organized, and in the mid - 1950's, dogs were rarely sighted in the streets of Reykjavík. It is old and new that it is easier said than done to eliminate a prohibition. It was not until the 1980's, therefore, that there were exceptions to the ban in Reykjavík so that people could apply for permission to keep a dog. Then, in 2006, dogs were reimbursed in Reykjavík. The bank in Reykjavík is far from an example, but there are certain restrictions on dog and cat maintenance in urban areas here. Fortunately, over the past few decades the trend has been positive, and today dog and cat maintenance is generally permitted. One of the main barriers to dog owners in Iceland is property law. Based on these, it is necessary to achieve approval of a greater proportion of campers for dogs and cats. Most of the time, conditions were more severe and needed the approval of all owners. In 2010, Guðbjartur Hannesson, social and insurance minister, proposed a bill for a change in multi holding laws that included a review of the law on dogs and cats. No change in consent rules was required, and the main emphasis was set on guide dogs. The General General Hjörvar Helgi proposed a change to the bill that included the lower threshold of consent, i.e. the approval of two-thirds of the apartment owners would need to be done instead of all of them' approval. His proposal was accepted. It is of interest to consider the vote because members of Congress did not vote according to party lines and the three senators who voted for a convention from three different council groups. This suggests that they made votes according to their own convictions rather than a group of predominantly cathetic ideals on the boundaries of their home and property rights. The rule of increased parts was a big step, yet it puts a rock in the way of many. It is often very difficult to get approval of 2/3 parts of the apartment owners for dogs or cats. The pet owners who need to move often find themselves in trouble when it comes to getting the approval of their neighbors. Then there are difficult choices. Either they have to accept a home they do not care for or dispose of their pet. This is not only a restriction in pet owners'rights but also the discrimination and access to their privacy and independence. The nature of this is that poor people who have no choice of living in a house or an apartment with special means of living are most likely to suffer. The approval of other apartment owners does not need to be met when the apartment has special access, but if the packaging of the stairways divides, it is necessary to gain approval of 2/3 parts of the owners. It seems that there is only a need for consent because of a pet's migration of stairs in partnership. As a consequence, it may be expected that the rule would be intended to protect the interests of those who are allergic to dogs or cats, or who have a phobia, and to prevent contamination in the community. Nevertheless, it can be assumed that other factors have a major impact on neighbors'decision whether to agree to dogs or cats. Nothing prevents them from rejecting such things according to their own desires. This has resulted in new apartments being used for short - term renting. The owners of such apartments are often opposed to pets. In this way they have the authority to prevent people from keeping a dog or cat in a marquee that they do not live in but only to care for their own interests at the expense of the local people. A home society can forbid animal control if it causes other people to be severely troubled, disturbed, or disturbed, and the owner refuses to remedy it. They do not have to agree with other pets, e.g. Parrots, though they can easily cause as much intensity as a noisy dog. Other measures may be taken to protect the interests of pets who are allergic or sensitive to pets. Keeping people so allergic or phobia is closer to moving to an apartment with a special property rather than grudging for the freedom of others in order to have a dog or a cat in their own home. No doubt it is a small group that can't bear near dogs and cats, even though only on the way down stairs are there, and there are probably more who have sought consent to keep a dog or a cat without success. In this case, local regulations do not prevent dogs and cats from participating in any multi-centre building, even if some residents are allergic to such animals; however, not everyone's approval is required. It is already the responsibility of the inhabitants of the multi property to keep hygiene in partnership, and already there are provisions in the law of the multigains to use against people who neglect such duties. The rule of an increase in the share is designed to increase civil strife and makes it difficult for the owners of dogs and cats to deal with their neighbors. Furthermore, the rule does not protect the interests it is designed to protect except by random means, and it can be reasoned that more interests are offered for my benefit. The rule applies only to dogs and cats, but not to other pets, which can cause allergic reactions and other disturbances, and therefore the rule undermines equality. It took 78 years to allow dog service in Reykjavík. Let's not wait 78 years to allow dog and cat service in the real estate. The bill is simple in format and consists of changes in the terms of the multi owner's house that deal with dog and cat maintenance. It is suggested that dogs and cats will not be subject to the approval of other owners. Nevertheless, a housemate can set rules for pet maintenance, as if they are normal, objective, and equal. In this way, housekeepers can agree on pet maintenance, but such rules are intended to go so far as to actually eliminate petting. It will continue to be permitted to forbid animal control if it causes other citizens to be severe amalga, disturbance, and disturbance, and the owner refuses to repair it, but it is suggested that 2/3 parts of the owner's approval be sought instead of more share. Material changes are not made on 33. g, on the common rules of animal living in the pan-diversity, or 33rd. h, about guide and help dogs. A respectable president. I hope this bill gets a good publicity on a committee and gets in here into a material discussion, and it's going to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u7	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in the terms of terms of contracts, agencies and invalid legislation, the surveillance of the terms of consumer contracts. I will compromise the custom of simply reading from a paper and trying my best to explain it in the so - called human language. A rather beautiful article, 36. par., which is as follows, with president's permission: A deal can be replaced in whole or in part, or changed, if it would be considered unfair or contrary to a good business routine to carry it for itself. Besides, there's more of a song that I think can only complicate the situation. This article, along with others in the legal library, is designed to protect people from unfair terms in contracts. But there is a violation of how these rights of consumers can be carried out. The bill includes monitoring the regulations of this and that of others, i.e. 36 st. and 36rd par. a◯d in the songs I was here reading when it comes to consumer contracts. This is because when a consumer negotiates who constitutes unreasonable terms, he has, in effect, left behind to defend himself except to take the court route. It is expensive, it is complicated, and this is true even when the terms of the contract are not valid and unreasonable. In other words, this is a so-called 'computer's problem, and this bill is presented to fix that problem. By means of the bill and its legislation, the Neighbour Room may act against the stakeholders who violate it. this law that I mentioned earlier, and thus more clearly, the interests of consumers in terms of conditions that have been considered or declared illegal and unreasonable. I'm not going to go over to the technical, respectable President, I think it is better for interested people to read the bill themselves and its paper for detailed explanations of the legal aspects of the case. But most important, I'd like to mention fondly that this bill is derived from the International Economic Organizations Association, which has been a zealous consumer advocate and who is to be thanked and commended for their efforts in this regard and of course thank you for this excellent bill. To say that, I wish that the case would be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u8	A respectable president. I make a different decision here from the home's Haustitic Association of the Aggressive Institute. Visits this bill on changing consumer law, legislation on bans and judicial matters to protect the overall interest of consumers and the laws on quietness, regulations, etc., the justice of consumer protection organizations. Again, I will play the same game as in the case I just finished speaking, rather than going into legal matters that are more appropriate for reading on my judgment and with my experience, I will try to explain the matter in the so - called human language. There is an organization that covers the overall interest of consumers, to form the National Aggressive Organization. No doubt there are others. This organization has had the problem of not having so - called legal interests. It's based on something else. Therefore, as no clear warrant for the complaint from consumers and consumer organizations that are concerned with violating the laws of the consumer sector. This bill is designed to make it possible for institutions to protect these interests to fight against their interests without ever having to put their own fight in the hands of the victims. Now, I'm going to take an example that some may know about, not just this party, but perhaps more, in order to describe the circumstances that may arise in our fine society when it comes to the right protection of people in action, some kind of financial responsibilities. Perhaps the most clear example, though only one example, is a small loan. Small loans are the things we're supposed to be doing here at the council, but unfortunately, there are a large group of people in the community who don't know them well enough to avoid these terrible loans. But without going a lot into the nature of that activity in itself, I'm going to leave it behind that when people who make deals with other financial institutions or other parties always have to fight themselves, they have to fight alone, they can be tired of obedience simply by being strong enough or stubborn enough. Therefore, it is very important for stakeholders, e.g. The domestic eco-efficiency organization, or any such organization, can, by real means, fight for these same interests. This bill and what I described earlier are both designed to achieve such goals, i.e. This is a different so-called 'computer disease' problem. Really, there is no material disagreement as to whether the activities involved here are legitimate or illegal, fair or whatever, but only about what steps should be in place to deal with them. It is not only important that all the squares are legitimate, explain, and predictable, and all that, as important as it is, they also need to be there and they also need to be realistic. This organization, a group of members, and the individual themselves need to have a realistic basis for seeking their rights to sources that are stronger, more stubborn, and prepared to test the moral principles of the other person than on the other hand. I still refer to a report on the subject and its subject text for a legal explanation. To say that, I wish that the case would be referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u9	Madam President. I'm here for a crucial matter, in my opinion, because it's ahead of its time. It'll probably take a few years to talk about a situation like this. This is about measures to increase the supply and consumption of green carnivores, road transport and vegetable foods. The suggestion reads: ▪ In order to reduce disaster, increase animal success, contribute to more responsible resource use, lower food levels, and improve human health. Notice that this tickles in quite a lot of boxes. Then ask yourself, " What is the public's involvement in what we want to eat? ' Yes, the public already does so in various ways, and the public has various responsibilities when it comes to the supply and demand for food. The government now strengthens various food productions by direct and indirect means, e.g. with agricultural contracts of 12 billion per year. But do you know what a great deal of the livestock contracts go into the garden products? That's only 5%. This is an example of how the government has a bearing on food in this country. Similarly, the public has various responsibilities when it comes to teaching about eating food, health benefits, and public health. There are also governments, and they notice this, for many purchases of food, such as schools, institutions, nursing homes, prisons, and even companies. They buy lots of food. The role of the government is also expensive, the friendly one is also in this matter. It should be noted, then, that consumer interests are, of course, on the table of the government in many decisions when it comes to food production itself, brands, customs, and merchandise. Finally, governments play a key role in dealing with natural disasters and climate change. This is the big deal. In addition, the government is in all discussions and measures for the general resource use in the country. According to the movers, all of this goes hand in hand. Therefore, it is very important for the public to consider these collective issues, just as it would be to increase the availability and choice of consumers, as well as the consumption of green vessels, vegetables, and fruits, as well as other things. The European Union of Greenkers has issued a challenge to the government to take action in these areas. It says, by permission of the President: However, one of the most important factors in this context appears to be the case. - i.e. the global warming - ◯ i.e. to reduce the consumption of animal products. The government has not issued any clear message on this element, but agriculture considers 13% of Iceland's emissions relative to the Kyoto Protocol (but 21% of emissions are directly responsible for the government's direct responsibility). Approximately 50% of this agricultural emissions are groundwater emissions from animal farms, but methadone is a greenhouse gas 25 times more damaging to the environment than carbon dioxide. - Which we tend to focus on. Our children have also been sending us a clear message every Friday that we need to take action against climate change, since this is important. Let's all look to the future and just expand the stage, Madam President. For the next 30 years, the human race will increase by 2 billion individuals, think, for the next 30 years. It's like one and a half of China is being added and food is needed to meet this number. A new report by the United Nations Interim Committee on Climate Change specifically stated that Westerners must take more food from plants in order to keep pace with climate change, since meat consumption has become too high. No one's talking about excluding it. We just need to move to the green. We need to focus on green instead of four feet. We see that 20% of all greenhouse gas emissions are attributed to food production and emissions from food production are almost 60% due to animal products. The other day, I read an article in The Economist - a real magazine - and they said: "If cows were land, they would be third of the largest greenhouse gases produced. Imagine, this inexhaustible meat production from various livestock, especially cattle, pigs and chickens, is very damaging to the big picture. That is what the United Nations and the experts have been telling us. If we are to achieve climate targets, it is necessary to reduce the consumption of animal products. It is an encouragement to all of us by the United Nations. It's also just a ◯common sense, Madam President, that's common sense. It cannot be said that 10 billion people today consume meat to the extent that it is being done. It is expensive to produce meat, requiring land management, requiring the depravity of the forest, requiring the use of large amounts of water. The energy we're getting from the meat is huge. So this case is just part of the big picture, part of speaking for responsible resource efficiency, including water and land. Then we will see that another party to this matter is the food waste. Food waste is a large part of carbon emissions, or up to 10% of total global emissions, so as we reduce animal consumption, we need to eat and find ways to make use of animal products. Madam President. Let's go back to Iceland. Because of our geographic situation, we will undoubtedly have to move food a long way. This may mean that the carbon footprint from an imported food is higher than from a domestic level, though it is not absolute. That's why I've called for it, and I've written an article called 'Grand # - a beautiful headline, as it were. There I made a very reasonable suggestion that we should bring in a large sum of vegetables here. Then people may wonder: " How does this come to mind? We live in Iceland. The average temperature in Iceland is 4°, which is the same as in a refrigerator. But that's exactly what Iceland's position on the planet allows us to have largely improved vegetable production, because what does vegetable production need? Water, hot and cold, we got plenty of it, we got enough energy, we got plenty of it, we got plenty of it. This is a wise idea that will address the urgent problems of the world today. This makes up a job, makes things better, helps to improve your health. Again: There's ticklish in so many boxes. Recently, last year, I'm reminded, this government decided to increase the strength to produce vegetables by one-quarter. In my excellent article, I say: It's just too small. We're not supposed to increase vegetables by one-fourth, we're supposed to four-fold it. Think big. We need to grow up out of this crisis, and it is no worse that we can have the increase of green and good and even eat it. This is where I want to look at the fishing road. Iceland is on a global scale when it comes to food exports in the fishing field. Icelandic fish are expensive in the world. I cast out the idea from this chair that we think of the vegetarians in such a way. I'm not talking about exporting some cheap pickles from Iceland, I'm talking about high - quality vegetable production through complex vegetables and into algae, or whatever the market and farmers rely on to get in and export it to a ◯high ended market. Icelandic vegetables we're exporting may be expensive and filled with quality, but we just need to schedule this. The support for vegetable production is in Iceland, but this has been pointed out. Lower the electricity costs for us, reduce the cost of transportation, say garden farmers. We can do all of this in this room, but it's incompetent. The support of vegetable production in Iceland is so quick when the Ministers remember it. I think it should be the focus of Iceland's professional policy to bet on vegetable production. That certainly is a market for it. Let's take advantage of what Iceland has already considered to be energy, earth, weaving and water. That's what we've got enough of. So at the same time, we're supposed to promote vegetable production and to use economic motivations. We economists are very fond of economic motivation. It has been missing when such action is involved, when it comes to green. Apply economic motivation, support, and support where there is a need. Here's a market failure - a different concept of economics - that the government needs. So there are various opportunities. I just get excited to talk about it and I hope somebody listens to this and make it happen after you leave here. There are other arguments with vegan food. Let's go over them a little bit. It is not just measures to prevent natural disasters and to improve the use of resources that recommend the consumption of vegetation. Of course it's the health issue. We all know that eating vegetables and fruit is extremely healthy. And I'm saying that I'm not telling anyone to eat meat. A consumer's freedom of choice is at hand, but since we are on the other hand strengthening food production brings us slowly into the green, aiding farmers who choose to change their productions. I'll support the agriculture, sooner than now, but we need to take more specific steps. We need to increase our consumption of vegetables and fruits here. Increased vegetable production and reduced consumption of processed meat products can prevent a variety of life - style diseases, and the consumption of marine products has many benefits. Then it's the moral argument. I'd like to count it out too. I am a great animal protector, a number of articles have been written, and many times I have mentioned it in this hall trying to direct focus on increased animal protection, often to the deaf. pets around the world, perhaps here in some cases, are not acceptable. This excessive mass production of pigs, on chickens, can we just rethink this? This is all part of the environmental discussion. Environmental issues must not only be about waterfalls, and some wide and rock, but also about animals, Madam President. Then there is the economic evidence, which is also for the increased consumption of green grass, both public and individual. The important thing is that we give our support to the second kind of exercise to increase the supply of green grass. I have three daughters, two of them, and, really, all of them, have been vegetarians for some time, such as ◯on and oversuperfied. They've all said that where they are, there's no more variety of vegan food, e.g. ... inschool. I know things are getting better, but let's take a bigger step, have the meat as an exception, but not the vegetables. It's better for everyone, for the people who eat it, for the economy, for the job life, etc. This is an opportunity, and we must unite in this course. This subject has such exciting properties, from your own health to how we manage population growth on earth and climate change. Can you imagine, there's all that would recommend this case to be prepared for specific measures to increase the supply and consumption of vegan food. I have written here at the end that of course, while consumers have freedom of choice when it comes to eating food, the role of the government is very important in these matters. The increased consumption of vegan food brings benefits and answers to today's modern - day call, whether in terms of climate, animal traffic, or health, to President Mrs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u10	Madam President. I want to thank you. the first official of the case who had given a good account of this in a talk. Perhaps I would rather disagree with him with the fact that this matter is a matter of the future. I think this is the case of the day. This is a case that would have had to run out two years ago, three, four, even. The power of the Kingdom to step into strengthening the state of green grass has long since come. Therefore, I have to express great satisfaction in the presentation of this proposal. It deals with the food market in the broad context, from the production and into the public cafeteria, and from that in between. I want to focus on one aspect of this chain, which is the state and community, which we share as an consumer and how the power of its consumers can have a significant impact on the development of these issues. You might, for example. say that the public cafeteria gives one of the biggest applications we have in climate conditions these days. The government buys food for about 3 billion a year, and if it were to direct it in greener conditions rather than in gray, it would have a major impact on the supply, the state's demand for the supply. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has apparently been predicting these matters about the same time at the beginning of the year because in January I proposed a petition to two Ministers for the cafeteria, on the other hand, the local cafeteria, just to map this market, to see how many cafeterias there are, and how they feed many meals each year, each of their carbon line, and how it works to reduce this carbon line in accordance with climate operations. Similarly, I asked if all meals over a particular size would be offered daily for a green vessel or for a certain part of the day alone. It's, for example. what was announced in the fall of the Danish government was seen with the public cafeteria. It was supposed to be part of a week's green cart, but it was backed up after a bad reaction from the pork lobe, if I remember correctly. These tracts are so big that I thought the next thing I knew was that I'd get a quick answer and they'd be very positive, but I've just got another answer. I submitted the inquiry in January, and I've only received an answer from the secretary of transportation and rural administration on the issues involved in the waste management of rural society. That answer may be the easiest thing to do by saying that there is little to answer. Although we have a climate management plan, a food waste action plan, a national food shopping policy, an eco-efficiency policy followed in 2009, and we have a green start in a full state of business all over society, the basic information that you would have thought would be a small core in all these important policies and should be carried out. However, the response of the secretary of transportation and the local government gave a rough picture of the scale. The rural population has values of more than 20,000 and is expected to have more people doing that work. The rural population operates in 157 elementary schools and 215 preschools, a total of about 65,000 students each day. In addition, rural society is responsible for eating food for a number of service recipients, such as disabled persons or older citizens. If we take all of this together, there may be a high level of 100,000 people every day that schools work on lunch at their country club, 100,000 meals at each active noon, where the community with its policies decides whether it should be red meat, fish, chicken, or environmental protein products on its plates. There is no point in stressing vegan food that there is no policy today because the policy is simply to have an excessive emphasis on food proteins and on dishes in general. Such suggestions are essential if we are to get away from that course. The answer I received from the secretary of transportation and local government also stated that cases may well look for better. By the end of this year, rural society has already set up climate policy, and by the discussion that has taken place on a rural Cooperative Coordinates on Climate and the world's aims, it seems that this will be considered by rural society. However, I do not know what the situation is with the government because the minister of finance to which this inquiry was directed has not yet answered. I don't expect much better answers from there or much clearer. I do not necessarily expect that there have been many steps in this direction, despite such factors. Food shopping policy for citizens approved at 2018, with the core of the policy of shopping citizens of food for the aims of sustainable, good people's health, and environmental awareness. It also says that certain food provided in local meals should be in line with the advice of a surgeon's office on diet, which is simply an emphasis on adding a part of vegan food to a diet. We'll probably just have to wait to get to the top. The Secretary of Economics and Economics will answer these questions to us. In fact, he may make us happy by pointing out that the green process has been updated, so now they are entering their fourth step, reminding me that one of the things to consider as to the green steps is the protein donor in the cafeteria. One step to take as the government runs the cafeteria is to offer an alternative or an environmental option, preferably both. This may be related to the repetitive challenge of Iceland's Greenkers to the rural management of green-fowl food supply in play and basic schools. It was sent last December to all the rural governments in the country, and it received quite a bit of subjugation from them. But it simply centers on whether or not children themselves have a choice as to whether they are using animal products. It's something they've called for themselves. Studies that have reached children indicate that they want this option. Since both are offered a choice, children may choose with their feet so that one sixth of those who eat in the cafeteria will choose the green. Here we may be back to the point I started on because the people who are leading the struggle to increase the offer and consumption of Ágústsson is not an accident, young family members who see through their children's wish for something other than animal products in the cafeteria are not attended by the school authorities, and they want to help their children to live by their decision about what they want to do above. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u11	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for his support, and I know he's a great sponsor for this case. I'm particularly welcome to his emphasis with inquiries about the cafeteria and other factors. I'd like to ask, though. A member of the council who mentioned the conflict of interest groups and referred to the communities: Does he sense a great deal of opposition to this issue? I just agree with what. A senator, even though I have said that this is a future matter, let us, of course, make this the case of our day and agree with it as a matter of course. A senator says that we should have taken these steps long ago. This tick in every positive box, and not at the expense of any one or any other person, notice. But I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator was inclined to support such a case, to bring us more in this direction. Have Icelandic farmers anything to fear? I don't think so. Has a what? A senator had some opposition, or did he sense opposition in individual institutions or schools or rural communities? I'd at least be Surprisingly, it would be fascinating to know that opposition is there. I agree with what. A senator to see that this is a generation matter. The young generation is considerably more positive for such action than the older one, perhaps only normal. It is a measure of self - control that includes all of us as we grow older. However, young people and our children and teenagers and young people are calling for this, as it were. A senator in particular, and we are required to listen to it, and then we are required to use the opportunities we have here, whether it is a domestic agreement or if it is a subsidized charge of electricity or transport costs or, like, below us. A senator made a choice, shop for the cafeteria. Think of it. It wouldn't have to be more complicated than that. Hv. A senator had interesting figures about how much government is going to be on the market. It's a step we can take relatively soon, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u12	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with that as a matter of course. Of course, a senator says, farmers have nothing to fear when we suggest that the emphasis on eating or using just one agricultural product will be on the public rather than on others. People are not talking about eating food that happens in a whole other part of the community than in farmers because of using their natural origin in farmers, like meat. But if I've faced opposition, maybe it's easier to recall that over two years ago I painted it in question style if we should look at some sort of meat tax in this country, putting a special spell on meat that reflected the increased pressures of using that product on the environment and putting it on the health system and all of that, and using the money that would come in the state box to make it easier for people to switch to the green, paying off production, market, and sales and vegetables. The reaction was not so positive because it evidently touched some nerve. We are still in a place where people are connected with their natural food CDs. I have to admit that I don't think I've rarely had such a loud and negative reaction to anything that I've let out of my mind, as to this question, should we consider putting on a meat tax to support the use of vegetables in return?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u13	Madam President. Yes, we need to take this discussion. I agree with it. One senator says, we need to have conversations with people who may be approaching them with a certain amount of restraint or emotional or otherwise. There are those who fear for their own benefit, people who may be involved in traditional meat production. One part of this might be to draw out the possibilities that Icelandic agriculture already have for gardening. Now I'm like a Pirrati, and I'll be here with my computer in Pontu. Here on my computer is an overview of the vegetables produced in Iceland. This is much more than I thought. With President's permission, I'm going to go over this list of vegetables produced in Iceland today. It is cabbages, cabbages, cabbages, clovens, pomegranates, carrots, gratlers, cabbages, cabbages, Iceland salad, ice salad, strawberry, potatoes, cabbages, cabbages, cherryota, rocks salads, cocktails, croquetto mats, paprikas, plumto mats, red cabbages, cabbages, selenium, brocolia, brocoli, cola, mushrooms, tomatoes, tomatoes, and spring seagulls. This is according to a list of gardeners' shoppers. People may be surprised at how vast we are in vegetable production. But I'd like to reiterate that we can be much bigger in production of vegetables in Iceland and go all kinds of ways to innovation, product development, market. This could make a lot of jobs all over the country. This is an opportunity for Icelandic employment, and this is an opportunity for the Icelandic farm organization, for of course we go on this expedition with them, with Icelandic farmers. This is just an environment in which changes in consumption behavior are inevitable and essential from natural disasters and climate change and resource use. Let us be just ahead of this time, although we should have taken this step, this is an opportunity we have to adopt, and the traditional agriculture needs to come with us on this mission.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u14	Madam President. The emotional reactions that sometimes take place during this discussion naturally reflect that the way that the human heart is through the stomach. Somehow this seems to be the best way to let your blood pressure up. But all of this is based on misunderstandings because, as noted in the Sermon on the Mount. That's why we're not discussing taking one or any of the people. We're just giving those who want green-food and those who might want that choice of options and options, freedom to choose rather than to be, for example. eating in the cafeteria, where the protein donor is always from the animal kingdom. They're taking some of the people who want something else. In terms of the type of generation problem, it is also good to review road observations in Iceland that show that there are extremely few people who are road people in Iceland, but they are completely disproportionate between groups in the community. If we look, for example. Only women under 25 years of age are more common in this group than others. Greenkers are becoming most of that group. For example, if we take the example of a large family that goes to dinner, where there are eight people around the banquet and perhaps two or three women under 25 years of age, such as restaurants are excluded. from receiving this extended family if they do not take full consideration of the green cart in the group. There's been an overwhelming chance that there's at least one green vessel in such a combined group. [[The president calls.]] And then just in the end, Madam President, I completely agree with it with what. A senator here is working for Icelandic farmers and Icelandic consumers and the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u15	Madam President. I come up here to support my whole mind with this conjugal proposal that I am an importer, as well as to share many excellent points in the talks of my prefects in the council's hearing on the subject and on the offer and consumption of vegan food. There are many fascinating and interesting aspects of this article. For example, the duties of the public are covered when it comes to supply and demand for food, the government's control of how it can be practiced, and the effect it can have. In this context, I would like to remind you of the suggestion of a greater part in Reykjavík City to offer less meat in the city's cafeteria, a suggestion that attracted much attention, in 2019 and to move on quite many. The last time I knew about it, that proposal had just come up with something. I would also like to mention a challenge to the government from the European Union of Greenkers, where they say that when it comes to its use of animal products, the disaster seems to be low. The board stated that the government has not issued any clear message on this aspect, although agriculture considers 13% of Iceland's emissions relative to Kyoto and 21% of emissions directly responsible for the government's direct responsibility. About 50% of this agricultural emissions are groundwater emissions, as the Greenhouse Association states. Then I'd also like to call attention to earlier recommendations and challenges given to Iceland's Association of Greenkers, which has sent every rural society in the country, along with film schools and elementary schools, to the increased supply of vegetable food in schools. It is a little interesting to link these challenges to the European Union of Greenkers - a powerful organization in which evangelism is introduced, a debate on the availability and demand for green food, information, and community discussion on these factors - about the fact that in the government's work on food policy to 2030 is not mentioned at any given time. There is no mention of increasing the supply of vegan food or directly contributing to the development of plant food. That's a concern because it's just like that. Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson and Andrés Ingi Jónsson have noted this, not a future, but a modern - day issue. Likewise, it is not only the language of a young generation, children, and young people but also of older citizens, as shown by a recent survey, a very interesting study published in the newspaper on the willingness of older citizens to increase the proportion of greener food in their food. This shows that interest in changing eating habits is also seen across generations. It's good, so it's time to celebrate. Another thing I would like to remind you about food policy is that of a service group appointed by the highest rank. In Iceland, there was no representative of the United States Greenmaker's Association. Five delegates were nominated on behalf of the minister, and six were designated by the Society of Industrial Society, the Association of Travellers, the consumers, and other organizations, but no one was found in this task force from the Greenmaker Association in Iceland. They have, that I know, made comments with this, and I agree with them. I'd also like to agree with what's been presented here, and maybe it's brought to the attention that in the restoration and fighting right here because of the pandemic, not only have there been suggestions from the United States but also have it been suggested that governments in our neighboring European countries have lost response to counter - fires. A major factor is food production, turning food production into green, environmental, and climate - changing pathways through creation into food production. There are tremendous opportunities for Icelandic agriculture. This arrangement and dating are not designed to create a conflict between farmers and farmers who want to increase the share of vegan food, or between vegetarians and farmers, but are opportunities for farmers in Iceland to develop as soon as food production comes in the direction of offering more choice green grass. There we have tremendous opportunities, as is also involved in our report on the subject. For example, high electricity prices and high pay costs are one of the points discussed in their recent report on the increase in green - carnivore production. I'd say it's a long time to lower electrical prices to the manufacturers of vegetables and vegan food. I would also like to remind you that we have not seen a recent survey of the nation's consumption except for a major survey of 2011 by the governor of the land, the Food Institute, and a plant in nutrition. In 2011, ten years ago, milk consumption had decreased by 23% since 2002, which was said to be over nine years, and the consumption of meat had increased by 17%. We have seen the consumption and production of meat in this pandemic situation increase as tourism continued. Much of this was attributable to tourists who came here and their consumption of meat. It is also interesting and, in fact, absolutely important to make another major study of food and its development, since there has been both an enormous amount of fermentation when it comes to information and awareness about the benefits of using vegan food, as well as the benefits of reducing the consumption of meat, preferably to reduce it, and the consumption of animal products. I reiterate that this is not to be the case that the farmers'business is threatened in some way. Rather, it is an opportunity to expand and expand and develop agriculture in the presence that consumers call after, except for the commitments we have signed and are bound by the reduction in climate change emissions. There are four market agreements in force between state and farm, that is a contract for cattle farming, costing 7 billion dollars. Last year, that's the sheep contract, which costs 5.2 billion dollars, that's the agreement on vegetable breeding that got compared with 600 billion. K. A year ago it is the so - called frame deal that covers everything that the other treaties do not possess, such as greens and grains and innovations. So the fact is, Madam President, 85% of direct agricultural grants are to produce milk and red meat. [[The president calls.]] Is it not time to revise this strengthening system from society's pleas for increased green food? [[The president calls.]] Yes, Madam President, I believe so. We should not be afraid to take that step; we should not be afraid to heed the call of consumers; nor should we take more drastic steps when it comes to climate change and environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u16	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the lottery law of Iceland's University and lottery law (no game boxes). A moving man is Inga Sæland as well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Change the U.S. High School lottery law, No. 13/1973, with subsequent changes. 1st par. The following changes will occur in Article 1. The law: a. (b) What questions will we now consider? ... willpassout. b. 3 mg He'll be gone. 2.g. The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Ministers shall make a deal with Iceland's University on funding for the construction and maintenance of real estate in the University area. The estimated loss of Acquires University of Iceland due to the closing of casinos in the years 20213/42024 should be balanced with the pay due to the construction and maintenance of real estate in the college area. Il. section Motive Laws, No. 38/2005, with subsequent changes. Section 3. The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Government funds shall be paid to the stockholders of Iceland as a result of the loss of income that a sum of $1 billion each year, in the year 2021◯2024. The pay will be divided so that the Red Cross in Iceland will receive 64%, the Landsbuster Association will receive 26.5% and 9.5% of its population will receive 9.5%. Section 4. This law has already been valid. When implementing these laws, the law of collection boxes falls, No. 73/1994. [...] This bill suggests that gambling machines will be completely banned. Gambling is generally banned in Iceland. General penalties contain regulations that prohibit gambling and gambling. For a long time, though, it has been customary to give an exception to this ban, allowing charitable communities and public welfare companies to run lotterys, stock markets, performances, and machines. The beginning of such a fundraiser was attributed to the so - called paybox that funded assistance for the volcanic eruption in the Western Islands. Lately, there has been talk about gambling machines and whether the activity is really so destructive that it is properly banned altogether. For the past two years, the organization of compulsive compulsive gamblers has been responsible for the campaign of game machines (see boxing). The goal is to call the public and the government to the level of damage resulting from gambling machines. On the Web site, experience stories of compulsive gamblers and their caregivers can be read. They show whites how much damage to gambling is causing society. The campaign has stirred a strong response in society, and it has already worked. Despite the prospect of losing tens of millions of dollars, the U.S. government decided in 2020 to withdraw from Iceland's business. Einar Hermannsson, chairman of the U.S.A., said that they felt that it wasn't worth it and that they didn't agree with the values of the U.S. Plan to be involved in gambling machines and to be a part of Iceland games. He said that self - money is a hundred million dollars - a direct result to HIM - than trust and respect were worth more. At that time, the Red Cross has been called upon by the government to produce a so - called card card. Cards prevent the removal of extra-specific slot criteria at a certain time period. A U.S. survey of public opinion on slot machines revealed that about 86% of Iceland's population want to ban such a business. At that time, 71% of those questioned disagreed that public service was financed by gambling machines. Gamble machines are designed to promote gambling. Unlike lotteries, they return a decision immediately and can be taken right back. As a result, participants are far more likely to develop an addiction than players. At that time, the rate of winning machines is generally higher than the comparable ratio in lotteries, and this can fuel user delusions of the consequences of participation. In spite of a relatively small number of users, slot machines run over a billion dollars each year. This indicates that the main source of the roll is compulsive gamblers, who spend a lot of money on their addiction. It's high time to stop playing machines in Iceland. It cannot justify such harmful activity that profit comes from good works. It doesn't do much good to introduce a so-called card. That method would not solve the financing problem of a good partner or work against the problem of compulsive gamblers. The only thing that'll do is completely off-limits. Then there is no excuse to indicate that Icelanders have access to gambling through foreign Web sites. National card pages are certainly harmful, and further measures are needed to prevent them from being accessed in Iceland. We cannot excuse our own filth by pointing to the ways of others. We should aim to prevent access to foreign card sites instead of using their existence to justify continued gambling machines. At present, two companies have access to machines. Iceland's High School lottery runs a slot box known as Gold Mine and Iceland, a club owned by the Red Cross and the Landsaf Society, also responsible for gambling machines. The bill suggests that there will be a loss of access to gambling machines from the U.S. High School Happiness Act and the loss of collection laws. With the approved bill, there would be no legal authority to operate a slot machines and such activities would be involved in the criminal responsibility. 183.4.g. a general penal law. In order to prevent the loss of income for Iceland's management players, it is suggested that the state funds pay shareholders every year 1 billion dollars. In the year 20213/42024. The profits of Iceland's University have been used to build up on campus. In order to finance maintenance and continued development, a minister is suggested to make a contract with the University for the construction of the region and that a government fund is responsible for funding the development of loans to the University. It is suggested that the estimated loss of income due to the closing of gambling sales will be done in the payment on the contract. Investigated measures prevent sudden loss of income from running machines, it is clear that further policies on funding of the U.S.A., Landsaving, the Red Cross and the University of Iceland are needed. It is hoped that this policy will take priority from the government if the bill is approved. The law clearly states that gambling is forbidden in Iceland. But what do people see here just north of the World Assembly Hall, on Hafnar Street, where there is one of these slot machines? It says a clear letter on the front of the house: Casino, casino. It's amazing that Iceland's University is funded by gambling. I ask: How can it really be possible to be a educational institution where ethics is taught at the same time a certain portion of their houses by slot machines, which only cause compulsive gamblers to hold on to most of the money? This is morally wrong. It is claimed that gambling has caused enormous damage to the compulsive gambler and to his family and friends. It is not merely a financial injury but a mental and physical damage and the terrible conditions of the gambling addict. It can be justified in no way that the State has laws that have fallen into certain member organizations that are doing good things, SÁ, Landsbjörg, the Red Cross, and the University of Iceland, have to rely on compulsive gamblers. It tells itself that it is totally a disgrace to us. The law has now been passed that makes it also that contributions to the public goods are tax derived. As a result, you must further encourage those who want to support that society and thus receive tax relief from them to strengthen and ensure that the state once and for all time ensures that these communities do not have to be financially dependent on the fact that a few sick individuals are laying all - on, their rents, and even their families, even the rest of their homes, as we know of. You just have to say, "Just as it is, we're gonna have to go above the U.S. for getting out of this." I hope that's the first step toward seeing the error of the other people too. We can't, we don't have, and we can't allow that our highest level of education, Iceland's University, is dependent on gambling addicts. In no way can it be justified that our young ones go into that institution to pursue education, even to go to the ethics department to map mankind's morals. Where, then, should this begin? Of course, we start by checking the university budget. Of course, the government and we are to make sure that there is no doubt that any organization like this should not be financed, either an institution like this, Landsbourg, the SÁI, or the Red Cross, with gambling contributions, a gambling box. It's no excuse to say that it goes to another game on the Internet because the machines are very different. They're built up to cause addiction, they're built up to keep people - they're not many people, and they tell themselves that if we prevent them, we're helping a large group of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-05-11-95.u17	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007, the decrepitation of professional pensions. A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. 1st par.: 3rd word. 1.mg. 23rd par. The law says, "So shall the trades of the pensioner's pensions be no less than the pensions of old age." 2. par.: This law translates into force on 1 January 2022 and implements February 1, 2022. The case was previously given at 148, 149, but it did not succeed and is now reassigned. In 31st. track No. 96/2017 guarantees that a hundred thousand will be paid for by pensioners. a special vacation target for employment at the time. 23rd par. Act on social security. This is a special vacation market for senior citizens, which comes in addition to the common law's common budget of $25,000. per month. With law No. 116/2016, changes in social security and other laws, including The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, they had one general budget of $25,000. This is true of all the incomes of a pensioner, regardless of their type. In the past, the default market for social security in pensions had been 109,000 dollars. After the accordion of the law, the change in employment interest was made critical and has been made necessary by the bodies of elderly and other bodies to eliminate the decrease in older citizens' income. Dr. Haukur Arnþórsson, who worked on the financial situation of the elderly in the case of an older citizen in Reykjavík, wrote an article about his study in the Morning of November 23, 2017. It shows that there is no need to include additional financial expenditures, and it may well be possible that financial benefits from the procedure may be being made by the financial expenditure. After council contracts ended in the summer of 2019, the General agreed to have an assessment of the cost if the bill were to be performed. The Department of Social Affairs got Capacent to do the assessment. Capacent returned the assessment early in 2020. According to Capacent, the bill would lead to an increase in government funds of 2.1 billion dollars. This raises questions when two reviews of the same subject give conflicting results. Stockholm's members have repeatedly called for access to what is behind Capacent's findings, but the Ministry has not yet granted access to them. But it is undeniably true that continuing work after the age of sensibilities increases the prospects of the elderly to improve their prowess, especially those with the lowest income. Research has shown that work and effectiveness in later years contribute to better health, reduced isolation, and generally have high social value for older citizens. It is suggested that the payment of a pensioner is not restricted by employment, parr. 23rd par. Act on social security. A respectable president. The bill on this subject is a bill that gives the State income and bill that makes it more possible for older citizens to work while they want to. At the same time, we must also consider those who want to stop working. True, we need to ensure that we do not make acceptable progress, for a large group of people cannot work in their old age and have no health or circumstances to do secular work, making poor progress that there is really no hope of living on it. Basically, though, it is forbidding a person to work, to punish a person for working, an older citizen who may have worked all his or her days and who has good health. Being 67 years of age does not mean that the person is unworkable, so far away, but some are due to health problems or illness. Those who can work should have the right to work without impairment. This in itself means that the State will continue to receive tax returns for the individual. This stands in stark contrast with the future concern that population growth is not enough to live up to our social security system, our nursing system, our hospitals, and everything that we need. It has been suggested that there are now a great number of people around here who have come to think of the need to feed only twice as many children as possible to try to keep what is needed. At the same time we talk about losing and not getting the number of people we need to keep the system up with taxes and jobs, we are forced to try to punish those who want to continue working as older citizens. It tells itself that if we look e.g., the exact same thing is true. on the job of scarring. It's funny to be ready to pay someone a certain amount of money to be in their position and then to force them into some amazing way to not be able to improve their situation even though it is a disaster. It claims that a person who stops working 67 years of age and therefore decides to retire - he could have continued his work and he would have paid half a million a month - that a government fund loses a lot of tax pay. What, then, does it take to get these taxes into which the government funds are missing? Yes, it takes someone else to take over. When we're concerned about it, we've had a little bit of a blow - and that's been the subject of discussions here at the council - who to hold up the system in the future. So all the evidence, no matter how we look at it, falls in the direction that we should not forbid people to work, we should do the opposite, encourage people to work while they want to and can. Unfortunately, we've built up a social security system that is such a butt-scraped monster that it's not really for a wise man to try to figure it out, as it were, that it's usually just a computer that dolls up and says yes or no. It also tells us that we have come to the place where we have a responsibility to reexamine the whole system. That's one part of it. The second part is the micro-employment sector and the amazing forcedness of plans to set a work-by-work assessment on it. It was shown in Sweden at the time that when microchips were allowed to go to work, find a job - they had a tax problem for two years, and just saving themselves - a lot of people got out of the system, and 30% did not get back into the system. We're supposed to have carrots. We should try to encourage people in every way to keep working. It also has many benefits. Not only does it bring financial benefits but it also brings spiritual and physical benefits because it does not work for all to abandon their 67 - year - old parents and retire. Some are comfortable, and we should allow them to do so, and they should be able to do so with dignity and a good life of retirement. It also raises the question of how we treated those who are mostly women and who were not in the job market and therefore have no pension income. They are the result, retired, and have no chance of increasing their income by working. Of course, society is also a disgrace to the fact that the pension is so low that people can't even top it, let alone live with dignity. As the Constitution says, we should see to it. We must never forget that those involved are those who built up the land, those who brought the land to the place where it is today. We should show them honor by letting them decide for themselves whether they want to win. If they want to work, we should not put a stone, let alone the whole living, to prevent them from trying to keep them from working, by simply losing their losses if they intend to continue working. That's why I hope now that the third time I recommend this bill it gets through, and that it will only give us the start of this social security system that is so badly built up today and that it has often been static so often that it tells itself that we're going to be and we're under obligation to simplify it so that everyone can live with dignity, and everyone can decide if they want to continue working or not.
