ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u1	President would like to announce that at the meeting of the European Parliamentary Committee of EFTA and EES held yesterday, December 14, the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was vice president. In addition, at a meeting of the European Security and Cooperation Centre held yesterday, December 14, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Kosin was vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u2	In a letter dated December 14, 2021, the president has requested this, as shown in the 8th number of 1st. 13 grams. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, are reporting on a report by the National Reexamination Committee, number, size and size.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u3	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u4	A respectable president. The status of children who are facing challenges such as attention deficit and/or hyperactivity, and autism has long been bad within the educational system, and the need for them may not have been met in the way that their brain functions. Lack of understanding has been a real challenge, and it has been difficult to get compatible and stability in the instruments and methods we need to use to teach children who are living with such challenges. We're talking about babies with Ferrari brains and rollerblades. They teach us so much. I want to see the education system provide children with equal access to opportunities of education. There is an opportunity to revise how we educate our children, to find their strength, and to allow them to thrive in their fields of interest, to build a strong foundation, and to resurrect their future there. By meeting their needs, offering them different teaching methods, proper support, and a measure of understanding about the challenges children with special needs face each day, I can see that we can feed ourselves with unique and prideful individuals who will become national treasure for a long time, world - wise experts in their field of interest. They have such fun and productive thinking, and we need to grow even further, and I have high hopes that by means of the integration and integrating of child - care laws, we will get so much better around our children. Let's adapt to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u5	A respectable president. It was last night on the 10th national television newscast as the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, answered a reporter's inquiry toward the poor and desperate and poor people now before Christmas. The film was taken outside Iceland's Family Help. Is the most damaging of all to say that. The secretary of finance said that there should be no unexpected error in the system from time to time. It would be a unnatural system that would have many extra payments outside the legal bounds. The quick explanation is this: We should have no specific extra payments but on our system. That's what I'm saying. Secretary of the blues of Covid's blue-smelling inflation, when people get poorer every day and they're coming to Christmas. This same minister of finance has another feeling about the economy in the country. When the system doesn't work, he would say that we have to offer these special extras at least. That's how our Covid operation has been through this epidemic. The company is number one, the people are not there. I say, if anyone gets unconcerned about where the Independence Party's policy already lies, the people of the country and those who are in a bad position to make ends meet, the highest would be. Secretary of finance, of all doubt about that last night's RUS News. After that, I have received three phone calls from weeping people because he struck them completely off the table that they should do anything for this poorest group now for Christmas. [[The president calls.]] This is more important than tears, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u6	A respectable president. Two years ago, I received my approved synonym to hide a health minister's education for the public in terms of histology and to have a review of the order of patient-specific rehabilitation services. Bruising is a long-term disease consisting of a variety of symptoms. About 90% of those diagnosed with this disease are women. It has been difficult to get health authorities to focus attention on the treatment and on the guidance of diseases that afflict women, and women often suffer the majority of their lives from unidentified diseases. One disease that affects women who have had little attention is an enteric polynuclear disease that can be very painful. The disease is often called endothelin in everyday speech, but the term endometriosis was also used. During a 20 - year period, some 1,400 women were diagnosed with the disease in Iceland. It can be assumed, therefore, that if not thousands of women have problems with their disease in this country at any given time, many of them will not be able to recognise the disease until irreversible lesions have occurred. Once diagnosed, women have usually gone through a difficult diagnostic procedure, but there is a lack of general education as well as rejection when they turn to the health system. Over the years, there have been delusions about the disease and the transmission of information misleadingly, but it is not easy to explain the disease. This has resulted in less being made of him than it is. One delusion is that pain is a natural part of a woman's life or menstrual pain is primarily psychological. A respectable president. So I have decided to propose a pact order to hide a health minister's use and to promote education among the public and health workers as well as to promote the services of those who carry this disease. Women deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u7	President. V.E.G. A financial minister recently noted that by forming a new Ministry, more than one, the cost could run at hundreds of millions. He also said that this cost is to be associated with the entire budget and all the Kingdom projects. V.E.G. The secretary of finance falls on his own test. His job is to carry a wallet of taxpayers and to manage the money of the common people wisely. Of course, there is no compelling need, no need, but to increase the number of recruitments so that the percentages of power remain between the parties. The hundreds of millions of dollars are the result of the independence party and forward, agreeing that the left of the green kept three ministers in spite of much monitoring and the cost of the largest category still being allowed to lead the government. Here is the obvious thing that is to say, which is to pay the taxpayers. The public and the companies in the country will take the account, and these funds will not go to other projects. Time and again, you will see the independence party far from responsible and reasonable government. This is the latest. Another example is how the Ministry blows out and that during the last term, this government set up 248 new committees in addition to all those already active. Was there a pressing need for all of them? Then there are some situations in which the need is truly urgent. Senators' E-mails are filling up with letters from people who cannot imagine celebrating Christmas. It seems that the government isn't going to provide micro-terrestrials with special compensation for Christmas, and the letters reflect grief over this. To make sure that no one is missing, that is the government's task, and that is the context that finance minister himself described, and that is the judgment on the priorities of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u8	A respectable president. This year there are 200 children and young people who are on the run in Iceland. They're all in common to have applied for protection in Iceland. Many of them are between zero and two years old, some of whom have unborn siblings. Some of these have not yet been resolved, so they await insecurity and uncertainty over the holidays as long as it is closed. Others have been denied protection, and they fearfully await being dismissed and sent back to flight while the rest of us meet and enjoy each other, gifts, food, peace, and security. Six years ago, we all woke up with a frightening photo of a two - year - old child on the beach who had drowned after trying to escape to Europe. The world around us wept Alan little world leaders throughout Europe, opening their hearts and allowing human kindness to take over for a while. Well, six years later, we've all forgotten about Alan and other children fleeing. We have been governed by unreasonable, inhuman rules. That is why the 200 children who have already arrived in the country pay the dues. Now during the holidays, these children enjoy support, projects volunteers Solaris and their favored sponsors, and receive small winter gifts intended to make their hearts a little happy over the holidays. I encourage the General and the Supreme Court. Minister of the state to follow Solaris's example, honor Alan Kurdi's memory, give real love to children who have come here, and their families the gift of Christmas gift of immediate asylum in this country for humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u9	President. Asking questions about injustice works. All the last term, I asked questions and collected data on why the social security laws and why the people who don't have the right to strike but who have to rely on a forward from the government are not allowed to raise their pensions. In order to make it perfectly clear, the legal principle is that the improvements in social security are changing so that their decision should be taken into account in terms of pay development, although they will never be less than the price of the consumer price. The appeal has been that the improvement by the Organization's national standards for inflation for the next year and for financial prowess of development has increased. The fact is, in the more than 20 years that this arrangement has been legal, the Ministry's predictions have almost always been wrong, always too low. A total of so wrong that pensions would be about 50% higher if they had followed their pay development for the past 20 years. Now, however, the Law interpretation has been changed. It's obviously working to ask questions. Today, the year is coming, and the price development is recognized by a lack of appreciation. The next year's pension is increased by an additional 0.8 percent in order to meet that lack of appreciation. However, there has been a lack of appreciation for the economic development that has been far higher than expected. Suddenly, a new legal interpretation has been performed without a change of law. I've been trying to ask why they're working on the budget for next year's budget, but they don't get any answers. The only explanation is that a new interpretation decision is political. That means the previous interpretation of the law was also political. It is evident, therefore, that the pensions of social security should be 50% higher than the average, due to the political decision of the entire government over the past 20 years, lower. Clearly, the melody was wrong in view of the new interpretation, and the new interpretation is incomplete because it takes only the price of development, not pay. So when pensioners still have to live with political desire for their advancement, we need to ask: Why? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u10	A respectable president. No unexpected surprise for micropunchers. Of course, that could be very dangerous. They could buy something for it, but not this 1% that goes through the system and goes back to the state fund. December's repertoire is 60,189. taking into account the number of months paid during the year. Like other payments for pensioners, desalination is linked to income. What does that mean? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's just the reference number. Most people get nothing. December supplementation of microenergy and rehabary pensioners is 30% of the paid revenue in 2021 and 30% of the paid domestic satisfaction. The compensation is paid according to the number of months paid by the person in charge of government insurance. In view of full-gradation insurance, December 8,881K is supplemented. but in case of household replacement, the additional 16.184k will be added. We. A follow-up will change according to changes in income insurance, which may result in a reduction. What's that reduction? If a child, 20 years old, lives with disability, what happens? $16,000. Gone and not just $16,000. That's 108,000 bucks. every month, well over a million a year. The child will punish his parents. What should the parent do? Send it out for chores, to get a Christmas bonus? The economic violence involved in this system must cease. We must make sure that these groups are in the same place that we receive our reward. There's no one who says that overtime is supposed to cut our Christmas bonus. There is no one who says that our Christmas bonus should be cut off by other incomes. I consider this violation of the Constitution, of equality. This can't be legal, it's at least a hundred percent immoral, taking one group out and saying he gets a Christmas bonus and then making sure he doesn't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u11	Mr. President. This is especially true when it comes to the use of Icelandic culture and art. We attend cultural events and shop beautifully for design in the Christmas package, but a pandemic has played those working in these articles with an amazing gray voice. It was observed by the representatives of the Union of Icelandic artists that from the beginning of the epidemic, the number of American artists has decreased by a total of 19%, about a fifth, Mr. President. That is nearly twice as much as in other sectors. In turn, the number of women in the trade, whether employed or employed, has been particularly reduced. While the government has certainly been behind the government's support, many of the necessary actions in behalf of the most severely hit by the epidemic have been under way, many of these measures now have to complete their course, and it is very important that we here react to them. We also need to remember that it is not enough to allow people and businesses to survive this difficult period, that it is necessary to make sure that very important aspects of employment and human life are not permanently damaged by the situation, including the situation. culture and art. A creative thought will have to play a much larger role in the future economy, as well as a powerful art life that is vital for our self - image. The status of culture is by no means worse than that of a nation's health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u12	A respectable president, 265,000 bucks. --so today is an undeserved micro-energy pension... far below the minimum... five times lower than our monthly salary here in this hall. According to the National Institute of Insurance, more than 7,000 people in disability and rehabilitation need to substantiate their lives at less than 300,000 dollars. a month before taxation. Would we here trust ourselves to live on those terms? I'm not sure. When this is the case, is it surprising that more of the disability needs to be turned down for medical care at expense? It comes as a surprise to us that more than a portion of disability claims that it is difficult to make ends meet at each month, as shown in the labour market report. No, I think we all know how this group has been left behind in recent years. There's always some promise of an overall review. That's what they say every year, every term, total review. But then nothing really changes, and these same vague promises, of a general review into the future, are used as an excuse for refusing human dressers right now. A respectable president. We can do better than that. If we can't combine to correct the huff between pay and pension, if we can't combine with the head of the Union, the senators, the left green and the independent party, we're really that strongly opposed, and if we can't join in raising the market for micrograding as done in older citizens at the end of the year - if we can't do this, let's at least, damn it, if we can't get along by then, let's just get paid one by December and without defect, as it's last year. It's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u13	The president begs members of the Parliament not to use profanity in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u14	A respectable president. The importance of creating a work market for everyone has often been called to the fore. Everything or nothing is a bad business policy. As is the case today, part - time work or flexible work is hardly readily available. Jobs where the work ratio is 20 to 470 percent are very limited. These jobs are about everyone in this community being part of a job market if they wish to. The government's willingness to respond to this is equal to no one. Isolating persons who are not well - versed or unable to do a full - time job is not acceptable in the well - being society discussed and the claims of governments. It is good for the economy that people are at work and important for the physical and mental well - being of individuals. More than 10,000 people were out of work by the end of November, of whom over 4,000 had been out of work for over a year. Let's just talk about social isolation. Socially isolated persons are those who have not been able to communicate with other individuals in a social way. Social isolation increases the risk of physical and mental illness and shortens the lives of people. Instead of giving people the opportunity for active participation in employment and not limit their benefits, the policy seems to be to isolate these individuals so that they are more likely to use in health care. Work is about company, breaking social isolation, working against poverty. The longer people are out of work, the harder it is to get back into a job market. It takes flexibility and a potential for variable employment rates, getting more people into the job without delay because it is for the benefit of everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u15	Mr. President. Last Monday, the train train on Channel 1 reminded us of a number of German and other political refugees who tried to find refuge in Iceland for Nazi persecution at the beginning of World War II. There were families who wanted to take refuge here, settle here, and share their knowledge and skills. These applications were nearly all rejected by the Icelandic government. This shows more than 2,000 documents from the Ministry of Justice and Religious Affairs from 1935 to 1945,1941. Strict applications from desperate people in desperate need. In fact, most of these candidates died in Nazi concentration camps. This is a black chapter in the history of immigrants in Iceland that we have to face. Now someone may say it's a past time. This century is second and Iceland is on the lead in humanitarian affairs of the world. But that's not quite the way it is. This story, however, is different. Each year, we cited a number of refugees from the country. Among them are many who have faced persecution and threats in their homeland, but we choose to send them into an uncertain and threatening situation that we do not wish to admit or face. We do not know what their fate will be or what it will be, but just as we are responsible for the fate of the Jewish families in the past, we are responsible for the fate of the inmates we send out into uncertain and dangerous circumstances. This is where we have to do better. We must act with kindness and cooperation, helping family members and people in need to find peacemakers and futures in a secure land. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u16	A respectable president. It is painful to read e - mails streaming to us generals these days, from the desperate and poor people who fear Christmas. The mails, all with numbers, are calling for help, not just a request for a little help or a little help, but a chilling cry of relief for people who cannot support themselves with the hunger lice that the State will give them. Most people are asking about their Christmas monopoly last year, these were small $50,000, and whether there is a chance the government would reinvigorate them. We stand firm for this, but the government does not, at least. Not so far. V.E.G. The secretary of finance called it a surprise in the media yesterday. I think there's a reason to pause at that term. When our kids get their shoes from Santa Claus it's safe to call it a treat. The little chocolate crumb on the pillow in the hotel room is a surprise. The primary obligation of the public guardian to make sure that people are not starving and that their children are not starving, but exactly, as the word implies, duty. You and I here who put laws and rules and budgets, we shouldn't think that we're in Santa's role and that financing from the mix is some sort of a treat. Our role here is based on our obligation to people. We are not some sort of feastmasters or kindmen who commit silver to accident over the people of the land. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget and the highest. The prime minister will be both concerned about the formation of the social security system. It's a long time, it's too complicated. It is a butts, full of fences, and stretchers that lock people in and trap them into poverty traps. I'm the highest. A minister to remember that there is a debate about a more complex system in the future that does not bring food to poor people for this Christmas. They know that everyone who wants to know that no one today buys Christmas dinner with a pledge in the government's promise of a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u17	A respectable president. The nation and nation's resources are ancient and new. Today, it is windmills that appear to rise in many parts of the earth. I've thought about it a lot when I wear it like that. Together with fish farms on our shores Of course, both of these factors are important, but I'm putting a question mark on how we handle matters in the first place. For fish farms, permission was issued before marine and coastal planning was completed. Today, there is a great hurry to build windmills in many parts of the world. I just want to encourage us who are sitting here to determine a course where nature protection, civil democracy and the interests of a nation and rural areas are the most important thing. We're talking about poverty here. The economy is discussed here. I think we can do much better out there, and I'm just calling out that this will be done seriously and we'll learn from the experience of other nations, that we won't just jump off and then try to fix and cut-throat after.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u18	A respectable president. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir Halling Signý Kristjánsdóttir to focus on endometrial migration or endome tris. I've already asked for a inquiry at the Council to the highest level. Healthcare minister about the disease as well as the condition. A senator went over the past, may cause severe pain and infertility and is believed to suffer from up to 10% of women. Its characteristics vary, they may be vague and individual, so analysis may be difficult and diagnostic more often than many years. The national hospital operates a cross-cutting endometrial movement team, but according to the Entire Conspiracies, there may be a period of waiting for an interview and measures to treat the disease very long and it will be added to a long diagnostic period. Patients in the organization have recently searched the landstones for treatment, and even more are now considering the possibility of this. Endometrial migration can have a profound spiritual effect and can lead to depression and anxiety. When patients finally receive appropriate treatment, the damage has often become severe, both physically and spiritually. For such a large number of patients, it is a serious issue to get the right diagnosis and treatment of disease as early as possible. It is not advisable for the number of patients to wait for years after the correct diagnosis and after the interview and the correct treatment for months. They are pained, helpless, and even inactive in the community and in the commercial market. So I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Secretary of health to the fore. It is the stated objective of a new government to reduce the waiting period for health care and first office entries at the highest level. A minister gives good hope for the rest. So I allow myself to hope that he will use himself here for urgent improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u19	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir finished his talk saying that it was the declared policy of the government to shorten a waiting list, but it does not seem to be when it comes to mental - health service. It is evidence of the strength of every community in the way they treat people who need help, help for illness, or social difficulties. Yesterday we received reports that the Landspians are forced to close a full of ten nests in their psychiatric wards because of a man's condition. Mr. President, there's a tenth of every space. In Iceland, for as long as the oldest humans remember, there has been a emergency in mental - health service. For children and adults, waiting lists are so long that suicides are increasing each year. Those who are at risk for suicide will close their doors and have another thousand children waiting for needed mental - health care. Mr. President. Last year, 46 people in this country took their lives and are just those who receive this registration in a particular medical file. If we were watching a similar loss in car accidents, drownings, or Covid's, the community would be on the side. It would be all the media with the microphone in the face of a health minister to ask: How will you react? Could our prejudice against those facing mental - health problems be so profound that we do not experience the crisis of the mental - health system? WHO, the World Health Organization, warned of these problems when the Covid pandemic came up and said that we had to react and that governments would have to take seriously the consequences of Covid's mental attack. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u20	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2021, which is to be found on deck. 176. All equally, the Generals agree to one budget a year, but because of a pandemic crown virus and the disease prevention procedures adopted earlier in the year 2020 by the General Assembly. So this is a second bill for financial support for the year submitted at the General Assembly. A previous budget bill of the year was submitted in May to provide funds for new and altered arrangements for homes and businesses to face the social and economic consequences of the pandemic. Most of the measures were made in the government's fourth economic package, which was introduced at the end of April of the past, as well as by some of the budgets due to the epidemic's impact. This bill is a custom according to only temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable spending management. The changes in the financial resources of various causes of suffering and lawsuits can be largely attributed to the epidemic, but their progress and influence on the business of the individual institutions became apparent only relatively late. Despite the fact that there were 5 billion in the current budget, it was decided not to go on that record but to request new sources for all the Covid-19 costs in the available bill. This maintained the ability of the reserve fund to meet unexpected expenses that might arise later in the year, such as due to an update in salary and prices within the year, natural disasters, and other secondary costs that may result from the epidemic. The proposals in the bill can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, as stated earlier, proposals for Covid-19 are requested for a total of 23.6 billion associated with consequences and measures related to the pandemic. Most of it is due to health costs, but also due to counter-important measures aimed at the mild social and economic impact of the pandemic. Then there is a request for additional sources of disassessment on the grounds of budgets that have resulted in unscheduled expenditures in addition to some other specific and unforeseen budgets established in 2021. In addition, the changes made in budgets and transfers between lawsuits are proposed, but such changes do not affect the survival of a trust fund. Finally, the bill suggests changes between 5 and 6. The budget for the year 2021, which concerns loans, loans, and state responsibilities, and other sources, such as the purchase and sale of real estate, property, and land that I review afterwards. In preparing the budget bill, it has been emphasized to be acting in accordance with the role of financial contributions, as I have only deemed to be, and it is further defined in the civil law. This means that the law is not intended to meet the expenditures for new projects, increased scope of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits above the set budgets, as it should be referred to in accordance with the laws of the budget for the next year's budget. As in earlier budgets, this bill does not suggest a change in the income side of the budget or any changes in funds and financial resources. On the other hand, reevaluated views are reported in the report on the bill. This will be the main part of the bill for the change in donations made to case classes where increased funds are needed, not reduced by contributions to other legal groups. However, in some cases it may be a matter of spending, to create a transfer, to reduce the financial resources of causes and litigation. A respectable president. I'll lead them to the main subject of the bill. It's here for the financial resources specified in the bill. State funds in 2021 are requested to be increased by 46,5 billion. This is equivalent to 3.9% from approved sources, as approved in 2021. In addition to the previous budget of the year, there is a 5.2% increase from the approved budget of 2021. Of course, this is a significant change, but the scope of the procedure is mainly explained by the provision of the pandemic budget, as stated earlier. They are 2,3 billion, but all other expenditures except those that are rightly said to be 23 billion. Most of the suggestions turn to health care. That's less than 22 billion. There, contributions to the hospital are increased, especially as a result of growing cost of operating in order to cope with the consequences of the crown virus. That is how the cost of a passengerhouse of 2.9 billion dollars is. and costs for cross-border screening and vaccination of 2.1 billion. In addition, contributions to Iceland's Medical Insurance are expected to increase by 5.5 billion due to reassessment of annual expenses. The cost of work and unemployment is then proposed to increase by 7.8 billion, with a weight gain of 6.1 billion due to the effort to start work, as previously noted. At the same time, 1 billion are expected to come as a contribution due to the December suitation of jobseekers. In addition to additional contributions for reimbursement for film making in Iceland, expenses for the reference work are expected to be 4 billion due to purchase of the Hotel History to be used for Iceland's University, as well as to provide additional donations for reimbursement in Iceland's filmmaking projects by an increase of 1.5 billion. Finally, 8.6 billion rise in subject 33 is expected, which is the financial cost, responsibilities, and pension bonds. This is because of a reassessment of interest costs. In particular, these increases are due to improved prices following rising prices, while there are 2.4 billion of the weight growths due to recovery of Istavia. In addition, the bill suggests transfers between causes of suffering and lawsuits and changes in the economic exchange of documents. These are changes that do not affect the total cost and thus the survival of the state funds but can influence both the rise and the decrease in the financial resources of individual causes and the classes. Other points are referred to in more detail as to the spending of causes and issues in the report of the respective causes of heartburn. A respectable president. I would also like to call attention to this in connection with the role and scope of the budget in Article 24. a law on public finances is required on the general budget of the A-part of the State Fund. The requirement for provision from the fund is similar to that of a budget-shaped bill, i.e. The reserve is intended to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. General reserves are designed mainly to meet problems with salary, gang planning and prices pioneers, and largely unpredictable and inevitable expenses, such as natural disasters or costs that are not otherwise allowed. The general reserve should be except at least 1% of financial resources, but financial and economic ministers have a general reserve and they decide on how to proceed from it. The budget of 2021 contains a total budget of 20.3 billion. Of these, there are 5 billion special contributions designed to meet special expenses due to the effects of a pandemic crown virus. We talked about this at the time. When more than 5.4 billion from the general reserve have already been set aside, largely because of a reassessment of the effect of collective agreements, an arid on Seyar prices, and a change in the working hours of shift workers. But now it is assumed that an additional 4 billion will be replaced during the current year because of a number of budgets that are thus not part of this bill. There, 4 billion for changes in shift workers' work hours, paybacks, and an additional 0.8 billion contribution is expected from volcanic eruptions on Smokejanes and about 200 million pay for protection against animal diseases. A further arrangement has not been made at this time and is therefore available for approximately 10 billion allows us to cope with unexpected and inevitable expenses by the end of this year if necessary. Next time, I'm going to file a bill for financial support, a respectable president. It's suggested that we handle a 6th Article. Some new teams will be added. First, there is a warrant for buying at a Hotel History for the University of Iceland. At the beginning of the year, the school requested a search for real estate for the function of an educational field where the present housing of an educational field would be unacceptable. According to the university, it is a fine opportunity to import education into the school's main domain in a relatively short period of time and to create other opportunities to strengthen the work in the focal region, from Watermur, and across the South Coast to Hagatorgi. This adds significant improvements in university housing from 15,000 m2 to 13,000 m2. It is suggested that the land of Central Falls be bought to build further facilities for experiments, education, and innovation in land culture at the National Farmer University of Iceland in the Netherlands. There is also a request for permission to accept a gift given by law or conditions that have or can result in permanent spending for a state fund without the means of financial resources. These are works of art that belonged to Iceland, which will continue to be preserved by the National Institute of England. Clearly, the art collection will fall at the expense of the preservation and storage of these works. Because of this, a special source is obtained because of the bank's donation. Finally, sources regarding increased contributions to development work by the World Bank are proposed and are in line with our Iceland's plan to achieve a certain percentage of national production targets that are being carried out in development. A respectable president. Before I come into my business, I want to discuss a planned survival outlook in the current year, along with the changes that have been made in loans. As I have considered, there are no changes in the income side of the budget or overall changes in the spending side, although the work of the bill has been prepared to re-evaluate the estimated rate of 2021. Despite proposals for a significant increase in budgets according to the bill, visitors are significantly better than previously anticipated plans. If you do, your income will increase more than your expenses. It is expected that the State Fund will be about 9% of gross domestic product, or 9.1%, during 2021, while the budget was expected to be 10.6% angle. Thus, the estimated recovery in 2021 is 32 billion dollars. better than was expected in financial matters. The annual income is estimated to be 851 billion or 26.3% of gross domestic product. It is 63 billion more income than in approved budgets when the change in reimbursement of tax reimbursement to public sources has been corrected. Of these, tax income and insurance costs increase by 51 billion, and this is in line with the changed economic premium. The total cost of the year 2021 on national interest base is estimated to be one 1,144 billion or 35.4% of gross domestic product, which is about 45 billion higher than the budget. When the change in return for reimbursement to government sources has been adjusted, the increase is over 30 billion. Explain the difference. of additional expenditures in accordance with the national fourth course for the pandemic that was approved in budgets during the first half of the year. At that time, unemployment has been found to be beyond the premium of budgets, as well as a higher interest rate, especially because of higher prices. The pay-offs have been taken into account in this financial bill, but, in turn, there are available sources of general reserves and other joints that are expected to be within the year's warrants. At the same time, in terms of the epidemic's annual reassessments, which were found to be less than expected, as well as that of investment expenditures less than expected this year. A respectable president. Funds for 2021 expected a higher debt of state funds and an increase of some 1,519 billion by the end of the year. The loans were expected for 427 billion this year, but because of the lower financial value of the state fund, the loan has been re-evaluated and is now expected to contain some 385 billion. Of these, a national loan of 268 billion consists of the publication of government bonds for about 180 billion and then a loan from IL to 88 billion. In January 2021, the budget issued a bill that amounted to 750 million euro, which corresponded to a version of 117 billion. and had the support of currency reserves. The bond carries 0% fixed interest and comes in addition to the three inexpensive collections of state funds, all of which are 500 million euro. At the time of this controversial euro loan, it was assumed that instead of taking extra loans with the credit card, the better economics, the stronger credit rates, the improved levels of money, and the otherwise government funds at the domestic loan market to the expense market, they have played out that they have not been able to manage these loans, and because of all the loans still going into places in euro, and no risk was formed that were discussed at all in the time that they could have been taken care of. In other words, this has not been tested, no matter what may happen later. As a result, interest rates have increased relatively less than debts. However, the cost of the year will be higher than in 2020, resulting in an increase of 12% from year to year and a debt of 16%. The total financial debt will be about 1,448 billion by the end of 2021 march on these revised plans. The debt rate under government law will then be about 33% of gross domestic product. I have to say, there's something better than you're afraid of. Now we're starting a discussion on financial policy, and in spring we're discussing financial agendas, and inside this discussion, policy and predict the long-term development of these debt ratios. A respectable president. I have now studied the key elements of this second bill for financial support by 2001. I suggest that this bill be followed by a discussion referred to a second. ... andwhat. It's a legal committee that's going to consider the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u21	President. Thank you very much. Minister for review. This is where we're standing and we agree to 46 billion bucks. extras. This morning the government's financier's opinion of finance policy was published, which, under normal circumstances, should be completed before the budget is approved, but we are here covering budgets in two to three weeks. This is pointed out in the review of the financial Council, but it is also, in fact, more important, criticism that is in the spirit of what we in the government stand for, that there is no consistent agreement between the Treaty and the budget of the government to which we now appear. So I want to direct a question to the highest. Minister: Will we see very great changes coming from the government tomorrow? There is talk of 2nd. I'll give you money as soon as next week. The committee needs time to study these suggestions. Can we expect big changes immediately tomorrow, or do we have large funding here in the year?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u22	A respectable president. It is unusual for the government to bring a change to the council by 2nd. ... abundant. I just don't think that's ever happened in my financial office that the government didn't offer suggestions for 2rd. We'll do it now as usual. It is only natural that the matter should be handled in a judicial way, and we will then make suggestions for the financial committee. I expect to discuss these suggestions in the government on Friday, followed by the committee. That's the plan as it stands. But I have to say, I don't think this financial bill is exactly a reflection for normal years and the comments as well. A senator may not be surprised. This is the situation the council has actually brought forth, i.e. elections in the fall give a very short time for budgeting. [[The president calls.]] In fact, it is impossible to imagine how we could have completed financial policies before the financial discussion began. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u23	President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. I wondered, " Will the changes we will then see at the end of the week indicate that financial policy has already begun? ' It seems that the figures we now see in the budget that make up a government law are, in fact, numbers that were approved for our last spring, despite repeatedly being spoken of in the campaign that a financial strategy would be reviewed in the light of the Treaty. The highest. A minister informs us if we will see very much changes in this regard, and can we expect that the financial policy that has been presented will also be very much changed in the treatment of the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u24	A respectable president. I now view matters as taking place in the custody of the council. It is, of course, finally to explain. But I don't see that the suggestions the government brings to the council are to do something wrong with policy as presented here in financial policy. I think there is room for the change in budgets, despite what the policy says, and I refuse that this is some kind of government bill, not at all. It is important that the budget is called on to the work that took place in spring, although it is true that the budget itself will run its course with government and elections. And that's a fact. Here is a new direction from a new government and new financial laws that are not entirely in accordance with the financial agenda before most, and that is not a drawback in itself, it is a convergence, exhibiting a particular combination of practices, which may be a bit new to the council, but not a fault at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u25	A respectable president. On page 18. 49 and 50 in this green book Fundamentally states, with permission of presidents: There is an increase in donations due to unemployment improvements and December supplementation to jobseekers. Great deal. December the jobseeker's supplementation is 92,229 k. in December. Of course, it gets cut like tax reforms, but it never goes down for 23,000 bucks. So it never goes down to zero, as happens to those in the social security system. It's also very good, and it's great that 5,532k is there. supplementation with each child. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget: Now he's not setting $50,000. extras that should've been in here, tax and decrepit, for the disability. But is he willing to do something similar for those in the social security system that is done for unemployment workers in the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u26	A respectable president. First about these improving systems as long as possible. A senator is here, in itself it is not the secretary of finance to make suggestions for changing their systems or on some additional payments. That would be the suggestions that came from the local minister of the seminar that we would consider. I've noticed that platoons are down. A senator has done a lot of work with my words since yesterday, where I said nothing but that I thought it would be unnatural that there would be more than one additional payment as far as the end of a year when people would be waiting and hoping to see, perhaps and perhaps not. It would be far closer for us to face the fact that if we were making such compensations or additional payments each year, the system would not be financing what was intended. They should then become part of the improvement system rather than double the pay paid by the end of the year. That's what I said. [[The president calls.]] I've never claimed that men were overexploited by extra payments. I have said, however, that the system has to be revised, and that is true of the two systems involved in pensions, as well as unemployment improvements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u27	My president of the talk period, which is a statue where many wish to give a reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of finance answered and couldn't agree more with him. I wish that the system was fully revised. But the government had been in the past four years, and it could have been over long ago. You've been for four years, and you always talk about changing the system. Then I'd also like to know, "Why in the world do you have such a complex system, and why do you always stand apart from each other?" Why would you give me 92,000? to jobseekers but 47,000 K. to eggs and 16,000 K. if they have domestic chores? Why on earth are you making this system so complicated? Is it deliberate and deliberate in order not to get those benefits? There's a large group out there that can't get a cent for December, not 1K, is that normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u29	A respectable president. First of all, nothing was changed. I don't think we've seen as much changes in the social security pensions as we've been working on since I took my place in the government. I could mention all the changes in the decrease ratios and standards we started to establish here from 2014, but in addition to the major system change adopted at the 2016 Parliament, these are tremendous changes. It has been changed to a microenergy harvester because it has given so much emphasis on solidarity on the outcome and has not been achieved. But we've been adding. During our last term, we put four new billions into the system to do better here and where. Why are our systems so complicated? That's a good question. To me, the answer to that question is very simple: Our systems are complex because we have stretched so far in our efforts to return the money where they need it. If we do less to control the money like this, a higher percentage of the items are going to be taken into account by those who are less in need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u30	President. First, I want to say no to the top words. Ministers that this is a situation that the council itself has actually brought out, as he said in his reply earlier. It is the government's decision to vote in the fall. Then I'd like to review to the government's decision to start a job that was made after a new release of funds last year and then be given to our budgets at 4.3 billion, 1.9 billion for recruitment grants. Now in this financial bill, it is said that there was a lack of an estimate of 6.1 billion. Where's the respect that the budget is here at the council? President. This is incredible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u31	A respectable president. Whatever. A senator may feel that it is the State or the council that decides when the election is, there is no government that can hold an election without making a decision here at the council. But the point was: If it's chosen in the fall and it takes time to get a government together, then it's hard to see that the rhythms drawn into the official financial law are going to work out completely. This is one of the financial tips of the Council. So rather than direct this criticism to the board or to the council now, we might prefer to ask ourselves, " Should I, in view of this observation, think about when the next regular election will be elected? ' But I agree with what. A senator said that it is very bad that this particular body of donations he referred to were so underappreciated. The positive side of this is that the plan has been new beyond expectations and is thus far beyond what we could expect. [[The president calls.]] Respect for the law is shown here by request.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u32	President. This is respect, and now it's a warrant. But that's behind. They've already paid for it, and now it's time to pay for it. What happens if the council says no? Is everybody who got a contract scholarship just to pay back? How does that even work? It's a matter of the fact that the warrant comes from here. When the government makes a decision to reexamine, it needs to go to the council before it is attacked, not afterwards, that is the case. Because of the election case - if we were to vote regularly in the fall, would it not be natural for us to do what in other countries that choose in the fall and approve of budgets in the spring?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u33	A respectable president. That's a matter of opinion. I'm not very conservative in these things, i.e. I think there's a chance of making some changes in this arrangement. I've been asking myself if it's like that. It's wise to bring in a financial program shortly before the election. The law assumes that today. We can reflect on their qualities and weaknesses. Note, though, what the financial adviser says; they are repeating their joys with the government laws on public finances. That's especially true. In the absence of budgets compatible with expenses, we need to be aware of what would happen if we didn't provide the budget. There is a message to the Minister and to the institutions responsible for the budgeting party taking along with them into the future and making arrangements to get back within the budget. We're probably going to do that, as the budget and budget are, if in some cases, a kind of spending plan in many areas where we're dealing with rights. [[The president calls.]] We're just confirming it with the budget at the end of the plan all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for a clear review. I think he's running a pretty good farm here and reminding me of what I said a few days ago, that we should be grateful for how rich we really are, how well we've been economic in recent years and how much we've had. There's plenty to go around. The priorities are debated. Two of every three e-mails I get are called by people who are very difficult and who have a call here at the council to bring some sort of Christmas bonus, comparable to the poor guys they got last year. It seems to me that of the 20 billion people who are walking off this reserve right now, there should clearly be over 1 billion to meet it, and I'm challenging the top. Minister to make it possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u35	A respectable president. I'm not going to take this delicate matter and do it technically, but you can be sure if it would be in harmony with the purpose of the law to bring such new fees into a financial conversation. That's a matter of opinion. The second is that throughout the years, this was a way of making an independent new decision to bring in so - called December supplement, some of which have called Christmas bonus, and this happened year after year until the council decided to assume this on budgets of the year. That is why December the date of the beginning of the December. However, in 2020 the government made a decision, with the approval of the council, to further bring in other special payments for the Covid situation and the difficulties in the country. The discussion now and all these e - mails as easily as possible. A senator is referring to, and coming to me too, reporting that we should repeat that extra payment. [[The president calls.]] But, by the way, we've been locked up in our December, once called Christmas bonus.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his explanation, but in view of the amount of taxes in Iceland, how expensive the season is, there can be no dispute, and in the view that in every 1,000 cases. the government gets back three fourths of it, I believe that there was a great need and a positive message for those who have the most tough and difficult option to grant this petition to the most needed, and most calls for it. At the same time, some kind of promise and confirmation of what both more things and smaller things seem to agree, that the social security system has to go through over-reaching and debating right away next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u37	A respectable president. All I can say is that there's a reason to revise the systems. I strongly encourage it, and I would like to put it into practice in the government that it will begin soon. I can also say every word, that many people would remember very much about extra pay. We are not in itself discussing this particular matter here on this financial bill, but let's hope that the minister of society responsible for the litigation is listening and being willing to answer what is needed to do in the group as a whole and as a matter of duty. A senator discussed the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u38	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a new proposal, which is submitted immediately to the 1st. Environment, to add a sum of $1.1 billion. so that you can pay for a single payment of 53,000 bucks. to despair now for Christmas, tax and inadequacy. A respectable president. I realize exactly what kind of document we'll discuss here today, I understand the very nature of the sum of money. At the end of the year, what is the scope of the Council for changing expenses? That's a lot to think about. By permission of the president, I quote in the opening section of the bill for the budget 2021: The role and content of official financial laws is clearly defined by branch laws. This means that all predictable arrangements should be made in financial terms. Funds, however, will only be used to deal with expenses that were unforeseeable in the payment of budgets but show that expenses are dropped during the year and that government funds cannot avoid paying them. The question we must ask ourselves is, What can we not get away with these days? The form of law on public finances is important. The problem is that we are involved in politics to make political decisions about what kind of society we want to live in, and these decisions are not always possible with a year's notice. Society will not be controlled solely by a model at the Ministry of finance. In this room too, decisions need to be made. It is the decision to ignore the distress call of 20,000 people and their families now before Christmas. I personally do not like the movement of our welfare community. In that respect, I can say the highest words. The secretary of finance from last night's Kingdom Radio News reports that our improved system should be in place, even though I do not agree to say anything about any mistakes. V.E.G. A minister would consider it unnatural to have many extra payments. I don't want us stopping from the system all the time, for people to be constantly put in the position that from then on they need an emergency call for Christmas exclusive. In that respect, there is a large part of me that understands the nature of the thought behind the box on the budget. It's not supposed to be necessary, that's not how it's supposed to be done. But it is impossible to apply the budget of the most vulnerable groups so limited that there is no room to cope with the rise in prices, inflation, and the external costs that are rooted in a world in which they simply do not live themselves. V.E.G. A financial minister should know best what the effects of increased inflation have been during the year. This year, because of more inflation than expected when these budgets were accepted, the cost of a government budget is about 9 billion. Less than 4 billion will be added to the cost of operating because of the price increase that will increase over the next year and up to 6 billion dollars. at higher financial costs for greater inflation than expected. President. Despite the better financial debt, the budget was expected to be about 15% higher than expected because of excessive inflation. This cost can be found in the budget, for as the law on public finances says, paying it cannot be avoided. But does a government fund avoid paying microloafs now for Christmas? That's what we're asking. These 9 billion bucks. which added directly the financial cost of inflation to the entire population can be attributed to the loss of real estate. The rise in apartment prices explains almost all the extra prices in the country today. It's a high pressure attributed to the government's action and neutrality at an apartment market. This lack of neutrality and the disoriented responsibility have now added to the plight of the most vulnerable group in the country that feels the most pressure to increase the financial value in society. The question is, What are we going to find out? What is inevitable today? Will government funds be prevented from paying microchip for the imbalance created by the government's inactions this year? A respectable president. The motion I recommend here, and set out in the 1st. There should be no need for extra money. Our well - being system should be more organized and more reasonable than it was for a total of 10 days before Christmas. But, in our opinion, the state fund simply cannot avoid paying microsurgents, tax and impairment, for Christmas on the present year's journey in view of repeated disillusionment because of the estimated revision of a non-resurrection system. We'll respond to the desperate distress call. We're on your side. I push and challenge everyone. The members of this body are now supporting this proposal for Christmas. The cost at 53,000K. The single payment we make is over 1.1 billion. The next year's financial bill assumes an equal amount for the rural community to follow up a successful child secretary's bill that finances contact with different systems. We have heard much about the importance of not interrupting children's lives, the formative years of childhood. In the wake of these 20,000 individuals, a respected president, the children of the household are now in the wake of Christmas, in homes where studies show that about 80% of people do not end up in the present process. Here we are talking about funding directly into these homes, to these families. We will discuss the importance of extending a billion - dollar tax rate for maintenance of housing in many parts of the country, all working with the reason that important repairs will be done there, preventing housing and possessions from going down, the foundation getting worse, as well as an exhilarating demand. If this argument sounds familiar, it's because it's being held here to a government party that just emphasized the investment of people in the campaign in the fall. If there is something behind that word, there should be an understanding of the cost of keeping people in despair and financial distress, how health can collapse, the base gets worse, the function of people, the ability to work together, and the understanding that money given to people who spend every single cent that they receive will have a massive mass impact on the demand for the economy. A respectable president. This 1.1 billion is not enough. The gap that has developed, the sparking caused by inactivity in this category for years, has made it seem that there will always be an insurmountable hole in which to bridge and cost money from this inactivity just to increase. But we can take one step now before Christmas. So I witness at the end, by permission of the President, in the review of the financial council from this morning: In contrast with the countries that we usually compare with, the institutions of public funds are strong. Today, many other nations would like to be in our position, and the solutions we face would be called luxury problems to them. There is a strong economic argument behind the increased support of a group of disability today before Christmas. This could be my way back and forth, but some things we should do because it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u39	President. I take my heart to this suggestion. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter. It's very much the way we've been talking about here, and I think, in fact, it's a very lonely thing to do at the council. We will go next week to celebrate the celebration of light and peace and love on the basis of the birth of the one on which Christmas is designed and sanctified. Let's all be conscience's sake, that I think, agree to do this. I challenge the highest. Secretary of the budget to make a recommendation and to give alto the highest order. Minister of Social Affairs if he's available to recommend this. It's about our conscience and heart condition, and I believe it's generally good in this room. I know it's the highest. The minister of finance is a good man, and he will accept this challenge, this adjustment, with an open and positive mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his support. In my opinion, it's a voluntary proposal. As I went over here above, contributions are needed to meet unexpected, unexpected expenses. We have seen a very different situation this year, and we have already seen it in our financial expenses, what is being suggested for costs of costs and inflation, that it is also necessary to place at the expense of other groups. So I encourage it. Senators to support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u41	President. I don't have much to add to what I said before; I'm not gonna waste the time in saying it much. I say, "I agree to do well and to walk to Christmas with a good conscience, with a positive and positive message to those most in need. " I think the rest of the nation will be happy over this and will feel better in the heart if we show this sanctimoniousness, which is not too much.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u42	A respectable president. I come up here to continue the discussion I made earlier today on this matter and the importance of it. But I wanted to mention it specifically, for now we have considerable information in Iceland about poverty on the one hand and in the very poor community. This is one of the largest, since it is such in Icelandic society that there is health and housing status that is largely predicting that people will be in a position to deal with very poor. I agree, as discussed in the preceding articles, that this is a step that is natural, simply because it is the right thing to take. But I would also be interested in hearing a point of view. A senator's return to the community is the money spent on food, food, and other consumptions of these people - whether they too are not any benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u43	President. Thank you. A senator for the question. It is important to note that these crowns all go back in traffic. It's a little different, depending on whom we're talking, whether or not there are certain sectors, a particular industry or social groups, how we look at the economic consequences of the parts. We are very quick to talk about the multiplication effects of certain projects. It is said that investing in people but viewing it as a clean cost to do something like this, when it is possible that we are paying unbelievably high sums of money later in life because of people who get into poverty early. So I think it's possible to say that there's a considerable amount of money that comes back. Calculations that have been made in the financial sector demonstrate that 50 k is high. per 100 k. I'll be back. It's just a direct effect. Now we do not take into account the fact that we are missing out on people very early in life. I'm gonna point my head. A senator on research and detailed analysis that included successful bill at the highest level. child - care minister of his day spoke of the importance of early intervention and talking about the impact of poverty on children. It showed itself to be a black influence on white national ideals, and especially must it be true of Christmas after a time of great inflation, which repeatedly bites on the wealth and expense of state funds. If there's room for budget money to make this up and get money, there should be room for the weakest groups in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just want you to know that I think of it as an additional reason to take this step: it's a dollar that makes a lot of money back in the box. Of course, that is not the primary reason for us to have this particular operation. At the same time, I wholeheartedly agree that there may be a view and reasoning that appeared on the top of the bill. Department of Social Affairs in its own time, on the importance of intervention. Of course, we know that this is where families and children fall. If you look at the matter only from costs and expenses, it might be possible to approach it first from what it returns, but it can also draw close to the social cost of inactivity, not being with people who truly need it. What is the short and long - term effect on families that are sadly affected?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u45	Thank you. A senator for a good question. I'd like to turn on her a little bit, if I get permission to do so, and indicate how much we've seen winding up in the economy now, for example. The inaction of the government's housing practices, which weigh the weight of this group. The economic pressure that now reduces this group's income is the result of inaction at a housing market, which is mainly related to this group, where we see higher inflation rates, mainly because of these forces, so we see the impact of inactivity in many parts of the community. This is one of the things I've been trying to bring attention to now in my first term, the importance of our understanding that the state and the government are not an observer of our economy. These markets in which we work do not fall from heaven. They're created by the people sitting in here and at the government table. That is why it is very important when such situations, such as animal-time, include increased inflation into the system, that we react, and that there are forces ready to make decisions because of the importance of responding to such conditions. This is precisely because much of the group of action can result in high costs later. I think we only see very much of the current government policy that creates a set cost in the system, which is particularly related to this group. This is the result of waiting too long to make a review of this series of subjects. And, of course, ignoring requests for additional support with the excuse that there is something else in the lake is not acceptable for a moment, so I think that it is too important for the council to take sides now and to agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u46	This discussion of the budget legal bill has given much attention to the appeal that we members of the Parliament have received from micropiercs regarding special December satisfaction. In answer to what. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon said the highest. Secretary of the economy that we were not in itself discussing this particular matter on this bill and pointing to the Supreme Court. Minister of Social Affairs. Actually, I think it's a rather unorthodox operation when it comes to making a decision on the budgets of financial and economic ministers, but the Minister continued and said that he was just hoping that the social minister is listening and maybe giving an answer to the call here on the subject of publicity. I want to agree with those words. Financial and economic ministers, requiring that they do so at the highest level. Social Affairs and employment secretary present here at the conference room for this discussion and explain what it's like to do before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u47	President. It's an interesting budget bill we're dealing with here, a lot of billions fell here and there, most because of Covid, which is predictable in some ways, but also simply an underestimate of the circumstances. We are required by the government to request an assessment of the extent of the budget so that we can determine whether or not they are going to overtake us. This is of utmost importance, since the budget is here at the General Assembly. It is here that stakeholders and the common people can come up with reviews about government plans. This is of utmost importance because of democracy, transparency, and all the regulations that we have in the government laws on government finance. Here we have just postages for a very large amount of expenses that could have been better premised, and then the government's special operation starts work. You see, it's okay to overdo, that's okay, that's just bills are returned at the end. It's more beneficial than looking for money afterwards. We have a very good campaign here, just to keep it completely clear, absolutely necessary. V.E.G. Ministers have come here and complained that it was the council who decided that there would be autumn elections and there's so much trouble with budgeting. Of course, it's not accurate, but it was the government and the government groups who decided, not the council, although in the technical rights of the company could be said that way. It's just not accurate, and it's not honest. For this effort, jobs are started as well as necessary as they were in the job situation at the beginning of this year, it is estimated to be 4.3 billion. And the government's announcement, very short after 2021 funding were agreed on, up to 4.3 billion additional projects when they were repeatedly advised that they would have to deal with the unemployment problem, they ignored it completely in 2020, and then said a few weeks later: "We're going to start the job at 4.3 billion and make 7,000 new jobs. This is a new decision that should be, if not in a financial programme, should be there, at least in financial terms, not in financial support as it has been in spring and this fall. And what's the test here? The budget bill says that the end of a contract has been made for 7,400 contracts. The objective was 7,000 for 4.3 billion. What are the costs of these 400 extra jobs? 6.1 billion. This plan is awesome. In fact, it was set up a very fine website that explained who had the right to apply for this; rural society, on the basis of all kinds of income and so forth. It should have been easy to calculate the cost of 7,000 jobs as it was planned. It wasn't 4.3 billion; yet it was what was applied for. The overall experiment is 10.4 billion. This is extremely serious, reflecting what I experience with budgets over and over, that there are various objects in those that are unscheduled. In addition to the lack of income and income, this is somehow designed to make the budget and the outcome seem unsightly, to look better so that once this is so far out ahead of the budget, it can be arranged by a transitional situation because the government sees how income is developing over the year. If income is unscheduled, the budget doesn't look so bad that it's turning into a very bad budget. So the budget looks fine because it's not a plan, e.g. About 6.1 billion here, and then the budget is also all right because it's making money that was unscheduled. This happens repeatedly. However, income should not be determined in any other way. They are derived from a national interest account, which clearly means that there are things being underestimated at all times. It's supposed to be too estimated when there's a crash and an underestimate when everything's going up, and it's definitely happening here. Instead of being honest with the government about how much it really costs, and showing it in its survival, it is unreputed in the charges against it. Probably because a little more minus would look relatively bad for elections. Classic, we're being fooled, that's just the way it is. Consider another example: Drugs. How many billion here? About 5 billion or something in drugs and medical products? That's 2.5 billion extra. It's been so nice these past few years, about at the right couple, because there was a special effort to do it right because it had always been wrong before. It is preferable to underestimate this point, despite knowledge that increased purchases of drugs due to Covid and such. I'll keep up with the fact that various depositers just seem on purpose to be miscalculated and in some cases, such as, for example, in some cases. With regard to NAPA agreements, governments do not bring the right amount to meet these agreements. Funds are now being thrown out 300 million because technically it is a monotonous operation that had to be provided with an additional 300 million for the last budget. Technically, it must be canceled because it was a temporary contribution made by the Council. However, there are contracts that indicate the extent to which the State is involved in the MPA deal. And that is simply not fulfilled. It is the obligation of the government to enforce the laws and contracts and bring the exact amount to the General Assembly. I can quite understand that in these transfer systems, such as job insurance, etc., when things swing back and forth, WOW falls, or there's a crown epidemic, that it goes back and forth. But I don't understand it in the joints like that. The contract costs for the NPA agreements, and I don't understand them on such projects as starting jobs where the target is 7,000 new jobs for 4.3 billion, of which 2.4 billion in summer work for students, when the project is performed at 10.4 billion for 7,400 jobs. This is a problem that is ongoing in implementing laws on public finances. It simply does not follow the letter of the law and hardly even the spirit of the law, e.g. that the expenses being pursued in a bill for financial support should be to address unexpected or unforeseen expenses. There is absolutely nothing unexpected about the work to be done. This was warned in the 2021 financial debate. The decision was made briefly later. It's a huge miscalculation. Despite meeting some goal for a number of jobs, this is an underestimation of about 60%. It's a huge thing, and it reflects this disrespect that the government seems to have for its work, for the financier who should be here in this room with all members of the council, not just with the government council; for the legal rights, where the government's laws on public finance are limited to what governments are supposed to do; and for the role of the council, where the initiative studies of the Parliament are just closed by accounting: we don't think it's acceptable to look at this, end. There is no respect for the council, and this is an example. Even though it's a really good job, you don't do it like this. It's just that way. You do this in the right way by taking it through the council to collect references, to consider: Is it perhaps a better way to achieve the same objective? . Somehow, no one in this government will ever think of asking that question. Their opinion is always the one that blacks, dot. There is never any other way. But that's what we get when we ask a lot of people, when we seek help, when we look for references. Sometimes there are ideas, better ideas, and we should be able to admit it to ourselves: No, my idea wasn't the best. Thus, this government does not win, and this financial bill is an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. He went well over the way everything seems to be underrated by this government, e.g. is a 60% off-program for the project. Then we must also ask: Why is this doomed? Is that deliberate and deliberate? If so, you will also ask: Why do they do this deliberately and deliberately? Then we can also ask the other questions: Do they not know what they are doing? Or, " Do they just care? ' They're just gonna do it in some way? There are also questions that should not be complicated, e.g. Whether or not to use NPA agreements. It should not be difficult to know exactly what is needed. It would be better, then, to plan over than to plan a habit, that one time something could be installed so that it would be in the plus for those who need it but not always in the minus. It's scary, and of course we have to deal with this because we know that there are 144 individuals under 67 years of age in nursing homes. How much of these subjects would need and are they entitled to, on their own?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u49	President. Yeah, it's not exactly the agreements that were made because of the MPA. The rate of the annual contracts was to be increased, but instead the rate is reduced by 300 million. It takes 321 million more to bridge the pay gap and the GDP, etc. to reach at least the same number of people that were in the year, but not even an additional one. It's a go-to-go. One of the best examples is the government's budget for the development of pay, which is used in accounts of all government pay and social security. It has always been too low, meaning that it must always be fixed at the end of the year. Well, there's quite a lot of billions of people going for it, just out of plans. Then you wonder: " If there's always a miscalculation, is that on purpose? It just has to be. You should learn from experience. I may mention that, too, because of the highest. A minister was referring to this 1,1 billion in a surprise as a pensioner at Christmas last year, that it was 1,1 billion already promised. That wasn't an extra happiness. It was like this: I'm gonna give you $1.1 billion here if you agree to change system. There were no system changes. Okay, but here's $1.1 billion, but it's dressed for some Christmas gift. So it is said to give this 1.1 billion twice, which is naturally totally insane and highly classical for the way this government works, and repeatedly commends for the same decision. As with the biographer contracts, all that came out there was, in effect, a appeal to the government to now actively enter the biographies. What they presented was something that had already been decided, as if some new decisions were involved. There's a lot of these cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I can't help but agree deeply with him. If we take this odd case regarding the 1.1 billion that was put in there, it was sort of falling out. The most remarkable thing about this is that when the social security system was changed for elderly people, money was taken from the system for disability. You do not really realize this, but they actually use it as an expression of disability that they refused to go to work and that they were to be forced into it. As a result, the government has drawn its feet to do something about it because as they draw their feet, they do not have to put billions into this system. As a result, they see the need to save themselves some tens of billions of dollars that they already do and can likely continue to do so for the next four years. I don't see how there's going to be any changes. It's also very scary to think that after we have moved out of prison, we have to have someone in the NT who needs help but who needs to work hard to get it out of a nursing home. I ask: What kind of system are we creating if we can just say to a seriously ill person who needs help and has the right to NPA: You're not getting this. We'll put you in an institution with older people where you don't belong and we'll have you there to save money? I don't think there's any more violence to be used.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u51	President. I personally find this very sad, for I worked with this person before, a wonderful man, and quite tragically sad about what happened. So, yeah, it's a disaster. I'll tell you what. My senator believes what this system is like and especially the way the system is about the disability pension, where older people have now become system-changers. Older people get an increase in holiday markets, not disability workers. Why? Because the system changes have not arrived because the system changes have not been approved. It is simply being starving forwards of change. It's as simple as that. They're starving for change. It's being held on a carrot: you'll get 4 billion if you start a system change. And when the answer was that it didn't work, it didn't work like that, there were a $2.9 billion set to reduce a dollar to two thirds of a dollar. Great. But that is a double promise that it had already been promised in the system changes. That leaves 1.1 billion. They say, "Go for a system change, and you'll get this $1.1 billion. It's a measure of oppression. People who are far below the minimum wage actually agree with them to quit at least To starve or starve at least less. It's a promise, but nothing's gonna happen. Then it's a Christmas gift. It's just simple -- I don't know what to use on it. At least I don't think it's polite.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u52	A respectable president. I'm here to ask when we're almost there. A social and workforce minister in a house to determine what to do for the poor for Christmas, like the highest level. A financial minister suggested what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson requested here just a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u53	President. I also find it interesting to have the highest request. Department of Social Affairs here for a speech chair. According to my experience on a financial committee because of asking the entire Ministry, it's such a way that they're being given financial resources. That the secretary of finance comes and says: "Let's just hope that a social minister responsible for the litigation is listening and may be able to answer what is needed to do in the group as a whole about the call as far as possible. A senator was discussing in the previous answers, apparently suggesting that the Department of Social Affairs has control over the financial rights of the seminary I have at least failed in my committee's work. I wondered if this is the right thing to do with the government of the country. We don't have a multi-organized government. Each minister should have self-control over his Ministry and the probable legal proposal for his Ministry. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't happen that way. I can't wait to see a social and employment minister come here and explain it to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u54	A respectable president. I just want to get involved in this discussion about the absence of social security ministers because it's connected to the words that I used to give an answer to an answer. Here's the budget bill, it's my responsibility, and we're here to discuss it. There is no suggestion from the Minister of Social Affairs on this additional payment in December to cover the current supplementary payment. But I'll put it here on the basis of the discussion, on the basis of the motion of the change presented here, and on the basis of a request that the Minister of Social Affairs be here that there is, of course, nothing else for the Congress handling of this matter and in the democratic discussion presented here, but to discuss the requirement presented and to take its stand. This may not happen right here and will not be the bottom line on the budget bill, but in my mind, so clearly, this discussion is not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u55	A respectable president. I cut this off earlier on the case of the Ministry of Social Affairs as the Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance talked about it. After that, you kind of put it down. I thought to myself, " I need a social minister to ask for this, or I can do the highest. ' A financial minister just decided to bring this in himself? I think that's exactly what I'm talking about. There's nothing to be returned from the Department of Social Affairs. Secretary of finance can just say, "I love this idea, this $50,000. I'm just saying that they're just going to put it back on schedule. I'd like that to be what happened next.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u56	Madam President. I love to hear words from the top. A minister for the need to discuss these matters and, of course, that they will be discussed. I don't think in any way that someone in this room feels that this simple exchange is unnecessary or bad. It's about priorities, and it's about some kind of methodology. This is especially the comment that we have discussed. We'd love to have the highest. Department of Social Affairs here in the hall to discuss things. Of course, it's the kind of budget within each Ministry that they're expected to make a joint decision. Then, too, ministers can set priorities within their own boundaries. I believe that it would be quite clear that a new social minister would come and speak his words about that case right here and now because they do not really become more important than this worst class by the end of the year, in the wake of Christmas. So I agree with this request and hope to the highest. A minister sees himself able to attend here and participate in the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u57	A respectable president. We're talking extra money. We've been discussing it today. We've also had a good conversation, and we've used these 50,000. ...employment, tax and inadequacy, should not be included in the budget right now. Why were they inside last year? It wasn't complicated, because of the Covid-19. That was the main reason why it was in the cash registers last time. But what has changed in this year? Has the Covid-19 disappeared? No. Is this group's situation worse than it was a year ago? Yeah, inflation. Inflation is and was much higher than the 3.6% that this group received at the end of the year. As a result, it would have been extremely normal and just a great deal of good if the government and finance minister had now put in those 50,000 charges, tax and inadequacies, because that's the only thing that comes directly to these individuals. V.E.G. Secretary of finance earlier said that December or Christmas bonus, or what we want to call it, is inside the social security system. And that's right, it's inside the system, but unfortunately, the system is installed to set up that December supplement is a certain percentage of income insurance. That would give 47,881 K. and 30% of household supplementation providing 16.184k. to scarring. But there is a problem with everything being impaired. It means in human language that one person can completely get a complete compensation, get 47,000 bucks. Because of income insurance and 16,000 bucks. because of his domestic chores, but another living next to him doesn't get anything. So how can it be said that December supplementation is included in social insurance if it does not return to a large group of people? It just tells us that something's wrong. We should also ask ourselves, " When working people get Christmas bonuses, just as we get Christmas bonuses, why they're not the ones that hurt them, even if we live with our mates or live with other people, they don't cut them off, but if you're desperate, they'll cut them right out of the blue, not just the Christmas bonus, but the household needs. ' I've called this domestic remuneration a bit of a couple tax of $18,000. per month. Two workers who plan to start a home, it's practical for them in every way, but two poor people who intend to start a home, that's impervious in every way to them. If they live in separate places, they'll get a full home share, 54,000 bucks. Each, and if there were no other income, they would also receive 16.184K. For Christmas bonus and even 47.881K. A Christmas bonus for insurance insurance, but as soon as they're going to live together, we're gonna have to be cut off. It's inhumane, and it's also stupid. It tells itself that it is better for society, for all of us, and especially for these two people, that they live together and have one apartment than if they need two special apartments. Of course, it should be of benefit to them. We are, in effect, under obligation to make sure that we are not always showing favoritism just because they are sick or because they are old. Why on earth do we have this system? I'm 100% convinced that this is deliberately and deliberately done because, as I've said many times, they're kissing for this 1%. Imagine, they say 1%, that's what they're gonna do for the money right now, but not the 50,000 bucks. ... whichwewantedin taxation and inadequacy. While they insert this 1%, which they say is 800 million, we do not know that it will. And before then, we were, for example. talking about a dollar to a dollar that went to 65 bucks apiece. At the cost of lowering a crown to 65 bucks across from a dollar, a large group got out worse than any other. Why? Yes, as a result of a chain impairment in the system, this was considered to be an increase in income in these individuals and decreased as a result of the decline. Then they began to cut down rents, special rent payments, and a variety of other compensations. This tells us that it's a crazy system, so amazing that you can't understand it. We must not forget that when it's the highest. The secretary of finance speaks of surprises everywhere, that such unexpected surprises cannot be shared, that at the same time we have to look at all the quirks that have happened to this group. It's not less than 50%, which is a lot of money. It's like a sledgehammer. A senator would never agree that this is true of us as employees, with such absurd violence. There's something else in these budgets that's a little strange, and I kind of began to wonder. It says, under the permission of a president: Its contribution to Iceland's Medical Insurance is expected to increase, including About 2.1 Ma. due to reassessment of costs e.g. Dentist and physical therapy and about 2.6 May. due to reassessment of the cost of medication purchase I ask myself, " Is there any contracts that will be dealt with by a physical therapist in this? You see, it's quite remarkable that you go to a family doctor, and that's zero, you don't have to pay, and the government's got a lot of talk about the health system. But if you go to physical therapists, you have to pay extra. There, large quantities of money have increased, making it possible for many older citizens and disability to go to physical therapists. And why would that be? Yes, because the government refuses to negotiate with a physical therapist, just as they did with speech pathologists. They are forcing physical therapists, such as they do and try to repair disability, to force certain parties to surrender. It is never good to resort to such financial violence, I would say, to try to get people to accept something they don't want to approve of, perhaps getting the reward, perhaps the 4 billion that was supposed to be each year. But we do know that although they're talking to the green government, they're going to rethink this system and they're going to put these 4 billion into it, it's not gonna work. They know well that while they're putting 4 billion into the system, they get most of it right back. It flows through the pockets of those who are going to get this and straight into the state fund again because of the way the system is built up. That's why we have to revise the system. And there's only one way they're going to return directly to this group: Let's stop paying taxes on poverty. Let's put this through the tax system. What's remarkable about it is, of course, that's the best way for this to be socially practical, that's the best way to give it back directly to the people that they get this money. We don't have to go back to 1988 when the pension was tax and poor and the people had 30% left in pensions or other incomes. If it was possible, I'm sure it could be done now. But those who earn the lowest income, those who live in 266,000. for taxes, I'll give you $35,000,36,000. I'll tax you. No one should pay taxes on what he cannot even survive. And to come here again and again and again and state in this chair that these 50,000 can't be inserted. - There's very little money in all context, and compared to the 4 billion people that have been made up every year since they've been made up with older citizens. That 50,000 bucks. tax and inadequacies are small money to put in here. A hundred thousand would be great, but only as a first step. Then we just have to get our shit together and take this system and throw it out, absolutely reset it. It is the only way that they can return what they have to do. It's supposed to be a system holding the person, it's supposed to be a system where the individual is directed, and it's supposed to be so simple that he doesn't need an entire computer system to figure out what he's supposed to get paid and how the system works, let alone that we should still have a system, so that older citizens and microgers need to calculate the future inflation. Imagine the requirement. The most remarkable thing in all of this is that the late bat, ASI, and all the banks and others; no one has been able to do this, but it is required of older people and sick people. We are, for example. by an increase of 0.8% now because even the government could not calculate the inflation this year. What, then, do they do? Yeah, they'll pay later. They'll get this money after. It's got to be some nasty government that can act like that. There's one way I think it's crystal clear if we want to change this system - this government that's been sitting for four years hasn't done it and I don't believe it'll do it for the next four years, we may have to hope it doesn't hang in four years - but it's the people out there that can change it by seeing that the current government won't last long. In the next election, the public must see to it, those who want to change the system, to choose anything other than the ones who are now in power.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u58	A respectable president. I'm going to experience the first time I've spent in Iceland, and at the same time, I'm going to see what's being done with what's called a raise. This is an expanded picture of what I've been dealing with for over two decades or so, with a country partner budget, and then some additional additions that need to be agreed on by the law when budgets fail to pay the expenses required. I'd like to be a little positive first. I feel that I can be happy that the wealth of the state is more than expected. It is also in line with what we are doing in the budget, that there is a profit expected, and that recovery seems to have started this year, thus increasing the income of both the state and the rural society. We must be happy that we are. At the same time, however, we also see that cost has increased less than money. So there's an extra supply at a government fund, and I think we'll be glad we did, that we're looking at it better than predicted. Of course, such large numbers that this epidemic has demanded of us stand out that we need to spend less than 20 billion on additional donations as a result of illness with Covid and a great deal of stress in hospitals and clinics. Of course, this is something that no one could foresee, and it could not be calculated in advance. No matter what economists would have tried to figure it out, it wouldn't have worked. We're dealing with a virus that no one knows where to take us. I hope we succeed in overcoming her at some point. Of course, this is just the reality we are living in right now. That the campaign that started, started jobs, created 7,400 employment contracts must have been considered positive because if it hadn't been done, many companies would have reported it to these people. There was the possibility that people could continue their work or work assignment with regard to their students. They could get jobs that would not have been there. I know it only from my community, there was quite a lot of young people employed for a job that had assumed to be working for the airline or up there at a terminal that was just shut down. But because of these possibilities, they could be filled with the available resources. Of course, it's weird to see the figures there, that this is more than 6 billion. These are so big numbers you can't quite put your arms around. However, the campaign they produced was active in the community. There is no question about it. But contracts made will not be available in the new year. I have to say, I'm concerned that this operation will not be available in a new year, but under the financial bill it will all be taken out. All these support measures are taken into some kind of optimism. I must declare disappointment that it is done. In the type of work that is now involved in the budget, we are talking to many groups, including others. Artists who have not had many salarys for almost two years, musicians who have otherwise lived most of the time on the show of Christmas. We have also been discussing with stage artists who have even staked themselves on opening small theaters and posting them on their own. We hear in restaurants that cannot have open and, of course, cannot hire employees or musicians or others. So I'm worried about what's going to happen. I'd also like to name the group on the unemployment list before Covid struck us, when WOW fell, and as a result, 10% became unemployment in the Southnes. Because many have lost their right to reform, they do not get a December supplement. The only thing they can look for is financial aid from fellow members, so this group is not in good shape. I'm going to state support for the proposal to pay in an invalid way. I feel bad in my heart to read all the mails that have been sent to us recently, from families that can't celebrate Christmas like the rest of us. There's nothing to sit around with when there's no action. We who have been on government payroll need nothing to worry about, we have received our salary from month to month, and we need nothing to worry about. But there are others out here in the community who are not in that position, and we need to be ready to expand our arms and receive such people when they ask for help. We can't let that happen about us and ask that people are in this position right before Christmas and that they really are never. Although we would agree to pay off this so-called Christmas bonus at this time, that is of no use. There are so many things that we need to examine in this system of welfare that is not acceptable so that we do not always create this failure that certain groups are left behind. A respectable president. I'd like to finally mention the loans mentioned in this budget, that they're taking loans to support the currency account. It's kind of cute looking at this. Why are we sponsoring the currency fund? Is it because we're buying abroad, and we need to own a currency account? Or is this because we have such a poor currency that he needs a crutch to support us? Do we need a righteous and holy price to buy and sell a currency in order to keep a worthless currency going? I find this unusual, and I don't understand why in the world it is not always designed to create a stability that exists in the countries around us. To say that, I thank myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u59	President. Hv. A senator here spoke of the effort to start work, and the results of the very unambiguous one. But the question I've cast out here, exactly because the campaign didn't come through a traditional financial process, is, could we have achieved the same success with less money, let alone the situation on the Southnes as it has been? There are only about 9% of unemployment still there. I think it's really strange how decisions are made here sometimes. We are dealing with an amazingly strange position of artists, such as, as I mentioned only at a budget meeting this morning, where contributions continue to be a problem because there are still limitations, and the unpredictable situation is very complex. I just wondered, in the position as we see it, we appear in the budget bill, where governments descend; not with artists, and they don't come to the council with suggestions. They say: Here we have a great idea, start our jobs, solve our unemployment problem in Iceland, it costs 4.3 billion. No, no, I'm sorry, that's 10 point something billions, that's not quite certain how much. It's just... It's really... it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... The result is certainly less unemployment. What happens when this stops? We have no idea. And how is the situation in Southnes, especially bad, affected by the epidemic and still in over 9% of unemployment? How do we really see the government reacting to the problem right where it is, considering what it is? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, when the campaign was started, it was said that this money should be enough to produce 7,000 jobs. That's how it was introduced. I don't know exactly what happened, but I think I'm aware that those in charge of this campaign had something to do with it, I don't know what to say. Of course, that was a warning against the fact that these funds would not be enough. It was said in the beginning that this would never be enough for 7,000 jobs. I think we've been talking about about about 3,000 jobs originally, so it was known that if people were to get this quota, 7,000 jobs, this amount would not work. I think everyone realized that, despite the fact that it was written down like this. But, of course, I'm just worried that these measures are falling down at the same time we're in my hometown of 10% unemployment. It's just scary to think about this situation. Considering that there are 10,000 people out of work in Iceland, half of it is 4,000 and something, long-term work. We need to work out some resources for these groups in the future. It's not just saying, "Covid's over and it's just gone, 'cause there's groups left behind. They have not had the resources they can do for them so that they can get back on their way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u61	President. I cleaned up when the proposal for starting work first arrived here and calculated. I just said that, based on unemployment benefits, the funds, the 4,5, billion that was supposed to cost, would run out of elections. I simply asked them in the fundraiser: "What? Are we really going to have some kind of campaign that runs out on election night? What kind of public treatment is that? It comes out of the question that the amount of money put in it was higher, which makes these budgets seem to last longer, and it just keeps financing over the budget approved by the council. Apparently, my butt book was much more accurate than the Ministry's calculations, and it's proved to be right now. Money ran out of elections. Then three months have passed, and more than that, the amount was raised. So I understand very well that the funds needed for this effort have more than doubled. That is why I find it so important to ask: Can we use more than 10 billion to make more than 7,000 jobs in some other way inexpensive, even more profitable for the future? We were never allowed to discuss it here in this council hall. We never heard of it from geniuses in the community who know how to create jobs, make valuables. They didn't get anywhere out of it. It was just the government pulling this out of their ass without asking a king or a priest, and it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u62	A respectable president. I learned that, although I didn't know a lot about reviews or economics and such, you would underestimate income and plan ahead when you were making a budget. If something went wrong, you'd have a table where you could run. I'm quite aware that if it had been mentioned here in the spring Hall that there should have been a campaign that would have cost 10 billion people a lot of hiccups. Next likely, many would have hiccups if the campaign had cost 10 billion. You're right. A senator points out, an expansion of 10 billion may have been different and should have been different from that one. But this is it. The campaign went well or, at least, there were quite a few people under it. 7,400 treaties, though expensive, were made through this campaign. I think this butt-book thing's got to do. A senator here will do just fine, and I think it'll be better when we get to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u63	A respectable president. The Honorable Capitol World. My name is Tómas, called Tommi, and I'm giving my virgin talk right now. I was born on the early part of the last century, and I would like to quote a man who lived at the time, known from American history, Harry S. Truman, 33th president of the United States, who made the dramatic decision to drop the atom bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima in August 1945. He used to say, "I'm responsible. Not on my watch. That's it. That's it. But he said it like this: He had this on his desk all his presidency. I promised Inga at the time when I joined her that when I was going to give my virgin talk, I wouldn't say, "Isn't everybody in a mood? But I'm still saying, isn't everybody on a roll? See, that's the way I look at it, I used to be a chef for Gold Falls, and it was the first, second and third class. First class people always got the best food, people in second class, they got the food that the first class didn't eat, and the third class people got the food that people in second class didn't eat the next day. This is what our society has now, that we, more than ever, have, get the best. But I don't want to compare this country to a passenger ship. I want to compare it to a lifeboat. If we were on a lifeboat, would we be seated in the stern and benefit and leave the people who have little or nothing to sit on the bow and abandon death? I don't think so. We'd take over, and we'd let the people in the cane enjoy the same things we're doing sitting on the stern. There's always talk about money here. It all costs; it costs it, it costs the other. It's just that way. It all costs something, and some things you just have to buy and pay. There's nothing to say: there's no money. I can tell you that in my own time, then-- I've been through a lot of time doing all kinds of things with no money between my hands, and yet I've got things done. And even if the government's fund is fired with a tilt this year, or actually next year, it's just gonna have to have it. I can't accept that the less fortunate ones, and then I own, for example, the less fortunate ones. To the poor, let not enough to celebrate the holiday. Come on. We cannot be known for that. I came here to the council with the intention of doing good, as does any member of the council. I will do my best, and I hope that you will help me do the same. Then we'll get together, and we'll just enjoy this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u64	A respectable president. During the transfer of a bill for financial aid earlier, I was unable to account for co-spets who are swift. The men of the assembly of Eyjólfur the Ármannsson of Aarver, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Einarsson; and we sit all at rest. It's a legal committee. As you can see, there is a solidarity among these four categories in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u65	A respectable president. Last year, an additional deposit from a government fund was adopted that expected to reorganize social security. At that time, 1.1 billion from the state's funds went to a so - called Christmas bonus, monopolies. This money was paid for Covid. It was last year. To continue this monopolitan payment, the law of change in social security had to be accepted, and the funds were provided for financial contributions. Note at 2 g. The bill on changing social security law, says, by permission of the President: ▪ In view of the specific circumstances now existing because of a pandemic crown virus, it is suggested that these will become tax free and thus not be considered to be earnable pensioners, thus not leading to a decrease in other payments. This year it is only legal December that is available. What's the situation on Covid today? Nothing has changed with Covid. The situation is exactly the same or very similar. We are still in a pandemic, and now these special payments do not come, they are not given microchip. That's too bad. Remember, today's situation in society is worse than it was last year. Covid still has a problem with people, and there is a much higher rate of inflation experienced by the layman. The absence of this special payment without impairment is saying a lot about this government, to say the least. This shows that the basic systems spoken of by the secretary of finance are not working. They didn't do it today, and they didn't do it last year. Speaking of the fact that the infrastructure is now to deal with these issues, it just doesn't make sense. Case reporting at the highest. The minister of finance is paradoxed by what was done last year, and of course this single payment is being repeated this month of December as it was last year. This demonstrates the position of the government on the poorest and the poorest in the community. V.E.G. Secretary of finance earlier asked: Why are our systems so complex? The answer is very simple. They're complicated by the impairment systems. There are poor people in all these reform systems; relief of disability, the elderly, in child reforms, etc. Such a system is not in the North countries, it is not a demarcation system, and it is a simple matter that the income balance is taken through the tax system, not the impairment system. This impairment system is mainly taking the lead in middle income groups, and it is actually defending those with the highest income in society. This is the attitude of this government on the poorest part of the community, on the poorest part of the community, who live with it, in fact, if they want to go out into the workforce, they will suffer a loss. It is extremely important that, like last year, the change in government proposal succeeds with the same payment as last year's, tax and inadequacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u66	President. Only for the conversion proposal first, because that's exactly the same as last one. Last of all, about 1.1 billion rest was the failure to get it to the exact budget due to system changes for disability. So 1.5 billion of those who were to be left properly were present. Then the General simply had to write: It's just one payment. Here you go, this is what you were meant to have. Congratulations. We still promised you something, but we couldn't do it until December. This year we are in the position of underappreciated economic development. What this means is that last year, a decision was made to increase the social security benefits of development or inflation. Inflation was higher, i.e. There was a higher level of inflation. All right. In fact, there was an underestimate, a difference of 0.8%, and that's what the government has decided right now, it's just a political decision to say, "Hey, yeah, we're going to admit our lack of appreciation for our plan for the year 2021 and an update to 2022. However, they do so according to prices, not according to salary development. If this were to be done on the basis of pay development, then there is a 2% chance, even on the top of this 1% extra that the government has decided on, there is a 2% missing. It is also part of the wages the disability have lost in 2021, so they owe it. Again. We're simply saying, "Please." Here's the coin that's legal for you to have, prices development or pay development, whichever is higher. This is a very simple suggestion, and of course the amount may be a little lower, but it's nothing but maybe just having it the same amount as last one. Nothing but to do it. It's just complicated, that's all. Let us remember this when we submit to the challenge of the government, that it belongs to the poor. I wanted to remember briefly again on my assignment. Last time I spoke of this, I was approved in spring, complaining about this amount of 7,000 jobs for 4.3 billion. It doesn't make sense. If you take the amount for unemployment and multiply 7,000 by months, that's enough and the number of months at election. Then there are three months from the three to four months'time, or something that would have worked, such as the student's summer job and implementing the project. It was just a little bit of money. Obviously, half the money was missing. In spring, I literally asked about this. The reason that this is an additional 6.1 billion, not 4.3, is that it was decided to raise the amount. In some cases, the amount of money may be higher than unemployment payable by this project, starting work. So, of course, it takes more than that. I expected that when I was agreeing to this budget, just based on the calculations, the government would stop this operation when financial authority has been completed. That's how you expect the system to work here, where the Council approves a budget of 4.3 billion, so well done, that the government will complete 4.3 billion and say, "Now the project is over. We were going to make 7,000 jobs for 4.3 billion. Done. Great. But no, they continued to do so without any of the approvals of the Generalis, which is extremely serious regardless of how good the strategy is, regardless. We only know that there is a better alternative that would have taken over 10 billion. However, it is a serious matter that the government ignores the WHO in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u67	A respectable president. The system needs to be changed. You need an overall review. It has to, it has to, it has to. This is none of my business. It's in the hands of the council. It's in the hands of another minister. This is, this is, this is. A respectable president. When it comes to securing a decent life, it does not mean to have endless excuses. Excuses don't put food on the table, excuses don't buy Christmas gifts for the children. I am fully aware that the highest. Ministers do not know this environment, live in large houses, and drive large cars that the State pays for them. It is easy to miss the experiences of the people living in this situation, especially when only the delette button has to be pushed to get rid of the email from desperate poverty. With President's permission, I'd like to mention a few phrases from these mails that we've just received: ▪ I am an invalid, a mother, a daughter, a sister, a aunt, and a person, and I deserve to live a decent life despite the desperate situation in life. Why does the ship always live such a humiliating life? Why must we not live as we matter? People are begging for help on Christmas. Whole families hurt, but you don't care. In 2021, children take it to life that it was a difficult Christmas. Many children will find it difficult to cope with the damage you are doing to them. Shame on you! V.E.G. Ministers. People live in poverty and need Christmas. Now stop making endless excuses and show some humanity to ensure that microsurgents are satisfied before Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u68	Madam President. Here, earlier today, I've accepted the call of the highest. Financial and economic secretary to attend this conference at the Assembly Hall and recognize what it is to do for the poor at Christmas. Now he's here, but it's been urgent to inform him that he's not only listening, as some left-green representative has said they want to do in this case, but he's also supposed to say what he's going to do. It does not matter just to listen and say that you control; it is important to show how you will rule. During the council, we do not simply accept their e - mails about their lack of money to celebrate Christmas. No, it's all about us accepting a single payment for them. That's very clear. That's why I hope to the highest. A minister present in the hall not only listens but also talks and even talks in order to support the disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u69	A respectable president. Let me start by saying that this discussion here is that I know very important. We all agree that we need to improve our social security system. We agree that we especially need to improve the quality of those who do not have the opportunity to earn a living and to increase the opportunities of those who are able to earn a living in flexible and in part - time jobs. These are all future assignments. I have also received countless requests from people, and we are listening to what people are saying. The matter has entered the council, and I hope we can continue to discuss it. I think it's important that we listen to what's been called, but I'm not going to tell myself how we could possibly do it. In turn, I would like to remind you that holiday supplements have finally been paid for, and December's supplementation has already been paid. But I am fully aware that the calls are for a tax - free monopoly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u70	Madam President. I'm glad to hear the words that you're saying. A social minister who seems to be taking good care of the government's counterlocation laws, which ensures that this single payment can take place right now at this Christmas. I was counting on his support for the changes that all government groups stood together to do today because it is important that we show it in action rather than in word that we really are with this group that really needs this support incomprehensible. That's what this is all about, that we're not cutting the amount of money we make.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u71	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe the discussion here and in these last days. As a new senator, I must say that reading all these mails that we receive is extremely difficult. I've been thinking about this for a while. There is a lot of effort for each individual to sit down in front of a computer, sit down, and expose himself, sending mail to a stranger, even though he is a member of the General Assembly. Only if he is truly in need or in need will that be done. So I'm just going to hope that's going to work. In fact, I've had a feeling there's been a little talk going east and west. It seems to me that some executives are open to this and would support the change in government vocabulary while others speak the other way. So I'd like to get a little clearer answers, just in general with the management team, where they are exactly in this case, and if all these mails don't move them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u72	President. I come up here in the conference board, although I thought it would be better if I had had this conversation for a few extras. But I thank you very much. Minister for setting up at least the conference board and declaring that he will promote this group, i.e. invalids, get this one-scrap back. I want to agree with those who have come up here, that it's pathetic to have all this e-mails. My box is full of e - mails from people who are painfully tied and are asking for a Merry Christmas. I find it interesting in itself that people actually have to e - mail the senators to ask for money in order to make ends meet. In fact, I think it's just a simplistic recommendation that we have to be on this, that there's probably not a reimbursement that was paid out by the argument that it was still in the community because of Covid. The evidence still applies today. It's still out of covid. (Forseti calls.) Of course it's due to be paid, and of course we don't even have to talk about it here. [[The president calls.]] The government has proposed, and I suggest that the government and the minister promote this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u73	President. I'd like to ask the President and the General Assembly who's making bail for the Department of Social Affairs. According to my financial experience, all the Ministers so-called to say that it's only the Ministry that calculates their sizes: please. Here's what you get for your tribe, so be my guest. It's not my group, it's your tribe, but it's still the financial warrants you get. Now it's clear that it was miscalculated. It's exactly as if this group had been in a desperate struggle and had their pay raise under contracts, but it's just not true. They simply get a lower percentage, and, of course, they have an insistence on getting the difference. This is the essence of the suggestion that the increases in pay that this group received last year are underestimated. Then, of course, it is common sense.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u74	A respectable president. Now that we're speaking under the supervision of President, it's a good thing to do. Minister of Social Affairs amongst us. We have talked about monopolizement, but at the same time, there is an absolute uncertainty as to how disability matters will be behaved for the next few years. The Government Treaty and this already existing budget are both very uncertain in this regard. Secretary of finance has a bit pointed out to the Minister of Social Affairs, or he did it at least. today when we discussed this with him. And because I expect a social security minister to come up here after that, I may be asked, " Is it in line with his focus as a minister of this category that now the income market for senior citizens is to be raised but left behind in the poor, and whether down-temperature contributions, e.g. In the next few years, there is also evidence to indicate that the left movement is developing a more pronounced expression of this category and whether this continued bludgeon offered to us in financial terms is actually his policy when it comes to the social security system in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u75	The President reminds me of why. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u76	Madam President. It was interesting to listen to the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Employment at the moment. He claims to have listened, and he realizes the requirement of disability, and it is very clear, but he does not intend to speak out here at the Senate Hall about how he will react to it. The matter would have come to a council, and he hoped that here we could discuss it further. I find it understandable that when the minister thinks it's just some weak administrative body member to ask him to come to the Senate Hall and face up to the disability of the country, he doesn't think they should get $50,000. One dollar for Christmas. But this is not my idea. The minister was obviously not paying attention to the discussion today when the minister of finance, the head of the social security minister, when it comes to financial rights, said: "It might be nice if the Minister would be willing to comment on what to do about this appeal. [[The president calls.]] That doesn't mean coming up here in the conference board and making some kind of mistake. [[The president calls.]] This includes giving a talk, accepting answers, and being accountable for their lack of self - control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u77	The President reminds me of why. The members of Parliament are again to respect the session of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u78	Madam President. I'm getting up here a little bit in the middle of this case because I wanted to discuss the question in a balanced way. paritaprevir Leví Björn is throwing up here before now, i.e. Who determines the financial authority of the professional Ministers? For this reason, I wanted to review the history of this fine case adopted by the General of the Council by a vast majority on the payoff of psychologists, that it fell under the government's payment. On the contrary, a bold reply was made by the secretary of finance immediately, that the Council might decide, as well as this, but it would be the financial authority that ruled. So there's something going on. And I'm just curious that we should be here at night during the last days of the year, wondering who really is in charge of where the money goes. I think children and young people are taught that it's the General. But it comes in the second day of testing. [[The president calls.]] It's just the most interesting discussion. [[The president calls.]] As a matter of fact, I find it much more interesting than many of the points discussed here under the Generals program, so let her go on as far as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u79	President. I actually think it's a strange situation when the secretary of finance urges us to call on the Minister of Social Affairs to answer for their seminary in the discussion of funds, and then we face the Department of Social Affairs, and we are forced to take the conversation with him under the President's meeting board instead of doing so under the financial contributions program. V.E.G. A minister does not place himself on the rosary, nor does he show any willingness to participate in that discussion. This is where council members have come up and asked questions to the highest level. So a minister has become some sort of emergency unprepared question period, which is understandable when a minister refuses to come up and talk to us. So I'm the highest. A minister to come and explain his class, give a brief talk about what he intends to do to make sure that this group of people who are sending us a distress call can hold here Christmas, that's what we're asking for, and give at the same time. Congress officials have the opportunity to give a reply to a minister and to find answers to their questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u80	A respectable president. I came up here in a pit earlier and declared that I wanted to give strength to those who have no energy, and it was interesting to listen to what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson declares that this coin was owed to the nitor. I might have felt like I was trying to figure out that this money should be moved somewhere else, called an entry, to use it somewhere else. But if this group is involved, does not the General's obligation to pay them out, is it not just the next matter to make this payment? I'm surprised that the minister of social matters that has been asked whether he supports this proposal is very vague in the matter. I stand here and support this suggestion, and I encourage ministers to do it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u81	Madam President. There's a situation, not for the first time, already at the highest level. The secretary of finance is at war, and he directs his responsibility elsewhere. This happened repeatedly during the last term, when the discussion was about a budget for health care and I can testify that he did it repeatedly, that he referred to a professional minister when there were a variety of health care professionals or other health - care contributions. Nevertheless, he is the one to be represented in giving answers when he puts in the budget or budget, and he does so today, in the case of this one payment to the desperate, to point the responsibility of this absolutely to the highest level. Department of Social Affairs, conducted with a group of micro-creatures. So I would like to agree with the many words here given. A minister to state strongly that he will support the government's proposal for this monopolitan payment. I think it'd be best if he did it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u82	A respectable president. I have to say, I'm gonna scratch my mind on what the council's doing. Once again, you're naturally new here, you're studying, and you're getting a divorce, but I thought it was a bit of a conversation. I thought it was about that when it was the highest. A minister is called here to come, but he does more than listen or hold some superficial short talks. This, of course, is an opportunity to go through this discussion with a little bit of energy, to do a little research in the government field, and really is so that we should not have to make big exchanges about whether we are going to strengthen the effort to get this payment that we are discussing here for Christmas. It's supposed to be such a big deal. But since it's not, I feel like the highest. A minister should be put on the rosary and only spoken to us in the government stand on this matter. We see it only on the e - mails we're getting that we have every reason to accept the request of those who send them to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u83	A respectable president. We have been told about the e - mails sent us these past few days because of the plight of those who are desperate. But we'll get more mail too. I wonder what kind of society we've created and for whom. I got mail today, and I'm sure you've all got it, too, from a family staying in the United States because of her child's heart surgery that's had two heart operations. They're stuck in the United States, they don't get to go home because they have to wait for a visit. But the loss of income has been enormous. They must pay expenses, stay, travel costs between apartments and hospitals, and want to celebrate Christmas. I'm asking, "Where is our welfare system? " [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u84	Madam President. I don't see anything out of this picture that here, on the final centimetres of this case, comes some sort of motion on the part of the section, which is going to fix the bad status of this number of people who seem to have forgotten in the document what it looks like right now. Maybe it's just about this traditional style, that most of the section can't be accepted by a new proposal coming from members of the smaller section. In other words, it's form rather than the material that mattered here, unfortunately. Again. Then I'd like to say this: It's nine days to Christmas, and it's important for people who wonder whether they know now or even get the good news late next week whether this call will fail. It's also an aspect that needs to be played into, that we do not somehow make this group an unwilling participants in some game science between most and less parts here at the council. They deserve everything else and better from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u85	Madam President. For good reason, when we think about disability, we think about poverty and we think about poverty when we think about disability. This is because our system is created like this. This is because these conditions have been for many years, creating risk factors for many health problems, mental health problems - just mention it - renting. Theoretically, a person is more likely to cope with it than others. That's why it's amazing to be here talking about some small amount of money, one payment for people who face poverty often and times. We all know that. And we all know that what poor people get in monthly pay is shameful, and we know that if they start working, they can lose their monthly pay, especially if they don't get their own powder. It's kind of sad to stand here and have to talk about it because it's supposed to be okay. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u86	A respectable president. In view of the highest. Social Affairs is still here, and I just want to challenge him to put himself on the rosary, come up here, whether it's under this program or in the debate on the budget later, and eliminate the uncertainty of the people out there to see if there's going to be such a pay-and-a-year tax and indecision as last year. It's just the least he can do. If the highest. A minister can't tell us where the government is going with the social security system, what's going on, for God's sake, spend the uncertainty of the people out there, whether this one will be granted or not. Don't let the people hang like this, wait like this. It's completely unannounced. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u87	A respectable president. Because of the words of the first speaker, who then addressed the Almighty, the president did not charge a swear word as it has been done here when the other half of that couple is mentioned here in the public speaker of the General Assembly. I just wanted to point out that to the president. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u88	Madam President. Linda, Sigrún, Samantha, Linda Rós, Teresa, Margrét, Kristín, Dagbjört, Ingibjörg, Ólöf, Reynir - The First Man - Anna, Guðrún, Inga. This is part of those who have sent me letters in the last days, part of the microchip that have sent me and all of us e - mail with overexcited simple requests: Help us through Christmas. Allow us to have a little peace of mind over our festivals by making a special supplement, as was done last year by Covid. You see, it was Covid this year too. If, in 2020, it was paid supplementation for Covid, why shouldn't it be also in 2021? Is Christmas any different with micro-germs? Have their situation been greatly improved by the one year? No, all these people who have sent us mail can testify to that fact. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, since I'm here in a speech chair with a bang. paritaprevir Last night, Jódís's Skúladóttir, who lives in the President's chair, thanked her for a fine virgin talk, raising the cause of this group here at the General Assembly Hall. By permission of the President, the senator said: I can see and I can hear, and if I could answer each letter and if I could help each person, I would, but I can't. However, I can work hard to handle the issues that come into this council in order to give them a career in order for us to adjust the situation for a longer time. I'll take it in particular, if I could answer any mail, I'd do it, but it's only easier said than done in my daily life. However, it is very easy to help anyone who has sent us mail by accepting this adjustment because their request is just about what is on this little sheet. This proposal is made on the side of the government's opposition to make a contribution from a government fund for the sake of 53,100 dollars. one payment for micro-energy pensioners. The people who wrote this magazine, they listened, and they did something. You see, that is the missing step. Often after listening, this step is missing. It took up the people's side of today's lack of money and formally moved into the Assembly Hall so that we need to take our stand here in our seats. Getting 53,000 taps is a huge coin for one microchip. That's a hell of a bunch of tax reforms and inadequacies. For the State, however, it's not that much. These are 1,200 million, 1.2 billion when taken together. With everything we know, this is a huge amount of 1,200 million sounds like astronomy, but later tonight, we're going to have a suggestion for a growing scheme. It's just a similar cost, maybe, we don't know. The cost of raising the Ministers has not been determined. It's known that a new ministry will be at least 190 million. K. every year. And why are we building a new Ministry? Yes, it is because the left of the green lost much in elections, but it was allowed to keep its minister's throne unchanged against another seat being given to the advance party. So if we expose this, it's an extra office that's actually making up the cost of holding the highest. Department of Social Affairs in office. There were left greens that should have been lost ministers and progressive should have had ministers, but left green gets to hold all three of them, and it costs at least one. 190 million a year, besides all the costs that are added to the changes in budgets that could run into a billion, but we don't know that. So the cost of the State in the office of a social minister and the government's cost of paying one - dollar pensioners so that people can have a good Christmas is probably the same cost over the terms of the season. I know what I'd choose. I wouldn't choose to increase the number of recruitment issues on political grounds, but not professionally, as is now being done. It's not well with government money. Back here today was the highest. Financial and economic secretary repeatedly asked: Why not just do this, pay one-to-one for a donor in disability? In one of their answers, facing what. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon, he spoke as usual about the need to take the system for a complete review. It's classic rhythms when people don't want to do anything, just say we have to do something later. He said he was going to use it within the government. On the other hand, he feels that we should not be discussing this monopoly in connection with the budget bill, even though it was just a budget bill for a year that we used to put this monopoly on disability, he was quite pleased to discuss this specific application in connection with a budget-authorized bill. But what did the secretary of finance say, the Minister of the Management Board of Iceland, is the sole responsibility for the bill we're discussing here today? First he said: "Yes, yes, it's nice to talk about this one, but let's just fix it some other time. So he said, "Don't ask me another question, talk to a social minister, he'll get it done. He's supposed to answer for this. This is not to be heard, Madam President, by permission of the President's secretary of finance being removed from the political responsibility of a case, almost in a sermon, when it is passed, of some other minister, and said, by permission of the President, we shall only hope that the social Ministry, responsible for a case of the press, is listening and responding to what it is to do in the whole litigation and the call as necessary. A member of the U.S. Senate commented on the history of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, which has been published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. In fact, some would have felt that it was a little too cheap to escape from a financial minister to not just answer for his own bill, the frame he puts the social minister into, but good and good, this did him. What happened next? As in the case of the government, we had to, as usual, pick up our arms. Whenever it comes time to fight for justice against government injustice, we had to go up to a conference board and ask for what the minister of finance himself suggested that a social minister be brought into the house to tell us what it is to do. He finally showed up. He's not yet on the rosary, if I see, but he's got time at least until I finish my case here. So if any representative of the left green is listening, the minister can be joined and encouraged to attend and do what the minister of finance urged him to do, to represent him. But what did he do when he came to the house? He responded to our discussion at the government stand on the President's conference board with some concern that the matter was naturally brought to the council and that we could just discuss it here. Of course, it would be important for him to look to that call, but he was not going to tell us how he could do it. You didn't mean to talk about it? What did he think we were asking him to come here for? Just to get some cupcakes and coffee in the cafeteria and then go back home? No, we proclaimed the highest. Social Affairs Minister here in the hall because we want to listen to him, we want to hear why, on the other hand, the question is, "Do you believe the desperate person will receive 50,000 bucks?" tax and demeanable by Christmas? - Yeah. That's not all we're asking for. We're not asking ministers to come here and say, "Well, we're going to re-evaluate the system sometime, and there'll be something later. Or that they come here and say, "I realize this cry, but I'm not going to talk. I hope this will continue. We're just asking for a simple yes or no. Madam President. After reviewing words of the highest order. Social Affairs here at the conference board earlier, I think his answer is no. As he's talking about this, I don't see a man's word that's saying yes to him that the desperate get those 50,000 bucks, but on the contrary, I'm seeing a man who's breathing the answer to something that doesn't really have anything to do with it, and he's shooting at an answer about what's about what's going on. Fortunately, Madam President, the answer is simple. It's documented and about it we can vote for it. Then there's nothing to be confused about some overall review in the future. Then there is no way to confuse the matter with any church treatment that the Ministers act completely apart from them. No, we just have buttons on our table where the options are yes or no. If I were to count correctly, this would probably be one of the first votes of the Supreme Court. Minister of Social Affairs after he was elected here as a senator, and this will be a vote for a hearing, which will be noticed; whether it's the highest. Social Affairs minister claims to listen but then show by his finger that he has not listened to anything when he nudges no to the opposition of the government for the sake of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u89	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his fine speech here. When I took the opportunity to volunteer for the trip, there were some who contacted me and understood nothing in it, this was the right category, how was it that I was running for the right party? You see, there are a lot of people who think that the welfare and the working of well - being are left: If you are a left person, you are a patron. I didn't see it that way. I thus considered restoration to be a group of structural changes, ready to look at changes in society. I'm a little surprised to stand here and fight for this welfare, which we feel is so normal and of course, to know that a band claiming to be left green should not come here and speak plainly in this matter. That's why I'm asking. Councilman: Have not the left just turned green, like the forward party?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u90	Madam President. This is naturally one of the examples that matter who controls which department. That the Independence Party has the keys at the Ministry of finance means that you will likely have to fight for all social improvements. They must fight for anything called increased financial support. But is it fought in this government? That is the natural question we need to ask ourselves: Is it a struggle for this 50,000 k? one-management fee, the government table? Given the highest. Social Affairs spoke earlier, I'm not so sure. Then I think people have just swallowed the pill that they need to refer to some complete reexamination rather than to support the demands they say they're all listening to. But I just want to mention, Madam President, now that I'm back in a pita that I'm here with the micrete file in front of me and I'm paying the highest attention. Department of Social Affairs still hasn't registered to the rosary. Is it really true that the minister whom the secretary of finance urged would come into a house to answer for this position is not going to do it? Because a respectable president is in the same category as the minister, I wondered if it would be possible to shoot messages at the highest level. Ministers and encourage him to register for at least one speech to explain. She doesn't have to be long. We're just calling for a yes or no answer to the question, are you going to back up that the poor get one?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u91	A respectable president. I say like what? paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson: I'm new and I'm trying to learn about this system. I find it special if such a thing is found in a political landscape in Iceland that the guy who has the keys at the Ministry is the control. There has become a strange situation if it is that we are here with a prime minister who is just sitting on the side, that we should be here with a minister who can only be assigned what is convenient for someone, and that we have a council that is unreachable because the person in the Ministry of finance is in charge. In what way, then, are we as a community if this has become the situation: Secretary of finance is in control of everything? This may be the case if people are not prepared to stand by their convictions in trying to improve this community and because they have come to some department, they will sell their convictions for them because the minister of finance is in charge of everything. Is it really that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u92	Madam President. I've been here a little longer than what. Senator. I'm just as surprised at things that come up here, though. But now I think that I have a slight disagreement over what was said in my previous answer because, naturally, the financial minister is in control of the government's financial resources within certain limits. In this matter, however, the minister of finance specifically pointed out the minister of the seminary and said: "Hey, don't ask me. Talk to him. I'm in my opinion about this because it's so unusual. Ministers of finance are understood to be in the discussion of their prime products, just as the Minister of Social Affairs is in the discussion of his bill. If the secretary of finance wants us to be taking the Ministers specifically for them, we can easily dust the arrangement that we have at times discussed financial matters with each member of the Branch Committee and respond to the members of the Parliament's questions about his affairs. But this bill was by no means the ideal, which may also be seen at the highest level. Even a social minister was not at a house when he was referred to. He had to be brought in here, and it had not even been told that we intended him to have some word with members of Congress about what the minister of finance had said he should now have a word with members of Congress. And just like that at the end, Madam President, I still note that the Minister of the Ministry, the Minister responsible for the lack of monopoly is not yet on the rosary. I'm wondering if there's a lack of relationship in a councilroom left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a terrific speech, as is his hope. I'm kind of thinking about all this. During the last term, the independence party and the forwarding party divided the finance Department and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Today, the left movement has entered the Department of Social Affairs, and we see an excessive ugly budget, and in social security, there are many strange developments that are being offered in which there are especially the more efficient groups of older people than the profitier groups, and in many places. Women, especially left behind. We can see this in the way the trend on the market should be under way, and as it is in the case of microbubbles, we can see this harshness. Now we know who it is. A senator better than I am the inside of my left movement a green supply. I'd like to ask you what. A senator believes that some sort of change of policy is going on there, whether to be more aggressive and drive more - well, because we're talking about the right and left - right course of this lawsuit on the left - green watch than was done during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u94	Madam President. I'd especially like to agree with that as a boy. A senator says about the law, even though we're not directly discussing it here, what surprised they were, they're political indiscriminate. It's, for example. The requirement for all types of donations that are not to be maintained has been established. Indiscriminately, contributions were made to the independent media, which was to be only a dollar's grant. This conservative concept is, naturally, just some old Thacheric Šucistity, which most countries have stopped practicing but still exist in the Ministry of finance. However, it is as if there were no criticisms about conflicting political views on emphasis in the bill. It is of concern, of course, when the government is supposed to contain groups that span the political spectrum, that the focus of the classes shines through the signals we expect. Besides, I think these funding laws are very clear examples of that. The fact that this monopolizement is not in these financial barriers, although the situation in society is almost the same as it was before a year when the management thought that it was a reason to put it into the budgets, either suggests that they are getting hard in the right or that they were going to own it as an ace in an ace to play it out in the last yards before Christmas to get good weather for people in the community when they begin to realize how bad this law is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u95	A respectable president. That's interesting. The difference between this and during the last term is also seen that there was now a situation after the election that groups claiming to be socialists could have formed a government. Now, too, there is the situation that even a restoration that has been more likely to be on the right side of the center is actually more socialism when it comes to this finer issue than the left category in the government. I suppose that's what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who had her good virgin talk here yesterday, will support this case, but I hope that there will be more in the left movement of a green bid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u96	Madam President. Yes, it is natural to reveal more and more about how precious it would have been to form a government for something, as it were, than to form a government for chairs. I think this monopolies for disability will be a test and an indication of what will come at the top of the topic field. Minister of Social Affairs. If he can't get through this lousy 50,000-dollar call that the government won't remember, if he doesn't get along with this broad support of government opposition, what real changes can we expect him to make? Nobody.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u97	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the talk is somewhat similar. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, who before answered regarding the vascular system in the left movement, ◯ green foreboding. I'd like to think about that question for why. A senator who knows this class and those under his control, especially when many new senators are aboard, whether it is likely to be, where it is highest. The secretary of finance has now given up the ball and placed the power completely in his arms at the highest degree. Ministers of Social Affairs, assigned part of the money and making a decision on the distribution of funds, to the members of this company, the highest. Department of Social Affairs, who burn for the seminaries, is granted permission to support this fine case. Because not many people are needed to make a greater deal of solidarity with this matter, as it were. A senator came in. There are 25 members of the government here, and there are not many members of Congress that need to be added, just as one of the left movement's members, if authorized, to make this fine proposal of the government that was submitted today. I just want to know what the senator's probability is of getting a warrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u98	Madam President. You see, this is a bit of an interesting situation that we are facing because the ball has been handed over so often that it is at the council. Secretary of finance said, "I didn't, and pointed to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Minister of Social Affairs said, "Not me, it's coming to the council. It must be understood that the council has something to say about this, that there will not be some strict order lines, and that all the government groups will be muffled to resist the proposal of the antiquities for monopolics. And by the first word of many woes. The senators would be strange to me if they were overwhelmed. But this, I think, also, will be the second trial, first of all, if the management teams can break off their mania and agree to a proposal that comes from a government stand, because it has only been the case, and whether members of the administrations can live up to the virtues they worked on Iceland's constitution and vote here according to their convictions on this proposal. It's a test I hope it works.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u99	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm just wondering if I'm gonna get the answers from the highest level. Social and employment secretary. He mentioned that it was really not in his hands but in the council. Today, a minister is in a different position, but he was in the last term because of the Supreme Court. Minister has also become an elected representative today and is the one who comes along to press the button himself and votes here at the council. So to refer this to the council - he is, of course, part of the council and, therefore, must be made up of himself according to his own convictions, the vice president of the left movement, a green bid, whether he will support this group's receiving this money without impairment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u100	Madam President. This line of the Ministers to refer to the council by means of budgeting is also bullshit. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, for example, was diagnosed by the secretary of finance. from the discussion earlier this Friday afternoon, the government will discuss its suggestions as a financial committee can then do their part for the 2nd. ... abundant. It is the Board of Directors that proposes more of the legal committee. The minister said it here in the hall. V.E.G. Also, a social minister cannot hide himself from the council because he has a lot to say as the vice president of the Board what the council does in this regard. And as long as I'm here in my last answer, Madam President, I'd like to assume that it's still the highest. Minister not on the rosary. It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u101	Madam President. I've watched the discussions here today most, as far as possible, try to stay in the chamber and listen. I hope that even if you don't see many members of the council here, they're now in the House or their position to observe this discussion. Of course, there are a lot of things in it, but especially, as this has developed today, about the matters of disability and the pressures they are describing to us in e - mails that we strongly refer to. The reason I'm at least talking a lot about this is, and I just want to do this a little better because I came into it earlier: think of how much people need to sit down in front of the computer and write these letters, and usually these aren't some neutral cold letters by formal request but literally describing the details, serious accidents, reasons why people go out of a job market and can't see for themselves, the children's position, how it's going to get funding to get children's activities and other things. Of course, this is a person's reading and weighting as we go through this week and especially today. Now that we are at last here, we can discuss this materially here at the council, and this is called for the Supreme Court. The Secret Service minister sits here and participates in the discussions, and this is how we're witnessing, and it just seems a little strange to me. I'm not gonna have big words about it, but I'm just a little surprised at it. A minister does not participate in discussions on this matter. When we're talking about these cases and these special compensations that the poor get tax and indecision, over 50,000 bucks. which, of course, would bring many of them over a difficult period of time, we often enter that discussion, and we hear a lot of counsellors, that it is to reevaluate the system even as a whole. They are often referred to in a government contract: We're going to invest in people. The wealth of a community depends on the importance of each one of us, so it is important that all of us have the opportunity to participate. The person is the heart of the system, whether it is children, disabled people, desperate people, or those who are here to participate in Icelandic society. A powerful welfare system is a foundation that ensures that all of us can thrive. Those are beautiful words written in a government covenant, of course, words that all of us can wholeheartedly accept. So says: The microenergy donor's products will be reviewed during the term with the aim of improving the quality of life and quality of life of those with reduced energy. In particular, it will be looked for ways to improve the quality of life and the ability to work, education, and employment activities on their own terms. To be part of a new system, a high priority will be established on individual selections. The United Nations covenant on the rights of disabled people will be legally established and established by a new human rights institution. Improving the benefits of those who actually cannot support themselves is just a basic obligation to each community. I think it must be, especially in the welfare community, such as here in Iceland, where there isn't such a huge difference between right and left as we see in some other places, an agreement on this wide line, that the well-being and common funds run under a flag for those who can't support themselves for some reason. We must also, regardless of how we would define it, agree that we need to find some proper standard, a well - established standard that we can use during the discussion to continue the discussion. And we must also agree that the system we create, if we are going to go on it and support them possibly at the highest level. A government for good in it, if it doesn't get so stocked, full of fences and compensation and impairment. Actually, no user of the system has a proper view of this. It's kind of the worst systems when those who have to use them may not fully understand them. Then there is simply the possibility that people's rights will be placed on a table, just to name it now. We all agree that if there is to be some radical debate of this system and to have those beautiful words written in the government covenant as some sort of reference, we must all be able to apply it. On the other hand, we need to respond to what is happening right now, the position of people who cannot wait for us to improve the system, to accept a social security system, to turn from that bait, even to remaking it, because of the better that comes with it, of course, nothing comes into the books of those who cannot work for themselves, and to rely on public assistance until late and last. Hence, this proposal is put forward as the government side by side to do. That's why I think it's important, because this proposal is to come up right now, to the highest. Ministers of the jury come and make no mistake about it because the message has been out and south as to what the government wants to do only the right to let this group over the hardest thing already to Christmas. Do not ski through the mailbox, and do not read these accounts. It's kind of my message to the highest. The minister and members of the United States speak of this change in government proposal and, of course, just our welfare and well - being thinking as a whole. Here, men have been coming into the right and left politics, and we're always trying something on that discussion because we have a government that extends quite from right to left, of course, with a stop in the middle. I would like to ask them, " What kind of interaction will there be between the classes and the poles? ' What does it do for national management? We must all share in that discussion somehow. You know, people have been wondering right and left in this discussion right now, and as for it, I'd like to say that we can talk about those things completely into the infinite, but when it comes to things like we're talking about here, it's really not a question about the right and the left, it's just super fair. This concept of reasonableness - there is no need to be a possession of it either on the right or on the left. I'm thinking about something markety. I believe that a free market with good and efficient rules makes value. There is no use of that value if it is not used to create a more reasonable society. I think it's a little under in this discussion before we start trying to make an earmark of the right or left in where we sit in it, considering how we're going, for example. ... toimprovethedemwork of these changes that are available here. I've also watched the Senate over the years, and I've noticed it, and it's foreign beyond the General Assembly, that sometimes it doesn't matter where the idea comes from, from where it comes from. Of course, this is well - known, and we have many examples of the fact that it does. Suggestions from a position of government that is not made and that they fall asleep on a committee or they don't get on the schedule or on the schedule, and then, in a short time, the same suggestions came from the conference in the form of a bill or a Senate arrangement, are little different from what had already come from the government position. I've never thought of it as a great blow. That's why I say, and I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who mentioned this earlier: There must be some kind of test on the members of the government today when this particular proposal comes to a vote where their heart beats, that men can throw away the government's robe if government ministers disagree with this proposal, and at least I dress up in fairness, and I'm going to vote on it. I think it's really hard on us at that vote. I agree with all the challenges that have been faced here. I feel like the highest. The minister of the seminar should come here, put himself on a rosary, and go on only briefly over his long - term vision in the group, and so on, that there is no room for long - term vision when we are talking about dealing with any distress and distress that people today are facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u102	Madam President. I decided to return to the platform to give the highest. There's a chance to finish what they're eating right now and come and talk. Yeah, I'm on top of it. Ministers and ministers. Senators are eating, something many poor people even have to deny themselves for the evening and for the next few days so that they can celebrate Christmas. However, I do not place high hopes that something will happen. Ministers have already fled the council chamber without getting to the rosary. When I'm at the highest. A social minister earlier evidently had not listened to what I said about not wanting the excuses: It's necessary, or: This is the Congress's problem. Those words used the highest force. Minister in his brief input to the President's conference board. Yes, people live in poverty in Iceland. People can't celebrate Christmas. There are people who will not be able to eat dinner because they cannot afford it. We here will fight for these people until something is changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u103	A respectable president. I would like to reiterate what I said in my first speech today on the importance of a so - called Christmas bonus paid this year by December. The special reasons for the Christmas bonus last year are still there, i.e. We are still in the Covid situation and a pandemic because of the crown virus, the population is still under attack. According to a financial bill currently available at the General Assembly, the economic situation is better than the prospect of a year ago, i.e. There's a better economic situation today than it looked for last year, so there's money to pay off this Christmas bonus, this monopolizement, tax and impairment, as was done last year. So that's not the point. This group is worse today than last year, and inflation has been added. So it is extremely important that state - we consider it an operation in the Covid situation - to pay this petition and accept the adjustment proposed by the government force. It would be both a step to reconciliation in society and a recognition of the condition of the most vulnerable of the nation. With regard to economic conditions, the government intends to work out with economic growth. The money paid now would go directly into the economy. They would stimulate the economy, so it is of utmost importance that governments, the government, come out of a rudimentary system and agree with the changes proposed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u104	Madam President. This arrangement, proposed in accordance with legal requirements on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, seeks the support of the Council for the proposed change of vows and the number of recruitments in the Council of Government. The change includes that in place of the Department of Employment and Development, Social Ministry, Education and Culture, Department of Transport and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Environment and Resources, members of the Department of Social and Social Services, University, Industrial and Development, Department of Internal Affairs, Food Ministry, Culture and Business Ministry, Education and Children's Ministry, and Environment, Energy and Climate Organization. With the change, there is a growing number of stewards from 10 to 12. Madam President. The proposal's article speaks for itself, and I hope that she will explain the main thoughts behind the planned changes, and I will come back to that viewpoint in the latter part of my speech. First, though, I want to bring up a matter of the Council's organization in general and the content of what has been called Prime Minister's task plan, which has developed recently in the past decade or so and is among the most important aspects of the European Commission. During the time of rapid social change, technological change, climate change, and rapid social development with changing challenges, the importance of clear work management and targeted planning of the Management Board has become ever clearer. Regular reorganization and implementation of projects between the Council's Council of Management is an essential step in meeting new challenges and tasks as such changes may be the driving force for change and progress. According to the general understanding of the design of the role, the prime minister is responsible to ensure that the Council's organization is designed to meet its obligations and is best equipped to implement policies that governments intend to initiate at any given time. By earlier law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, set up in 1969, the basic change was made in the order of recruitment at the Iceland Board of Directories. This is an arrangement we can call the Icelandic arrangement, for such an arrangement does not exist in other parts of the northern world. The transition and the legislation of any law in which the minister should implement it made it possible for the design of the function actually to be moved from the European Commission to the legislation of the legislature, on the contrary to the order of Article 15. The Constitution, which assumes to be responsible for this, is on the hands of prime minister by the president of Iceland. So at the General Assembly, there was always need to be a bill when there was a basis for a change in the work programme within the Board of Directorates. At that time, it was necessary to establish a order of order and order to establish the Council's organization, so to speak, by listing the Ministry to be active in the Council of Government, has served its purpose. This change led to a degree of rupture in the chain of responsibility and to the basic structure expected by the government of the country. The basic rule of the Icelandic government, such as other democracies, is the trinification of the state of state, where the Council establishes law and establishes the basic work of the European Commission. The management board is legally subject to other legal activities of the European Commission and is implementing these activities along with the law. In that work, organization is important and a means of execution that does not have authority over one's own organization is accountable in part. It is the basic rule in the Democratic states that power and responsibility should be combined and the restoration of the work programme with the laws adopted here at Council 2011, for the Management Board of Iceland, was a key factor in the restoration of the Council of Government after a financial collapse. These included: From a report by the General Commission that this role, together with the general lead and coordination role of prime minister, should be developed and made clear by the 2011 Constitution of this effort. It is therefore an uncircumcised role and responsibility of the prime minister at any given time to make sure that the core structure of the Council is such that, at best, the implementation of legal projects, as well as policy development, and the implementation of the priorities of the government. Like any other boy. That was the story, and then it was the supreme. Prime Minister Sigurðardóttir Sigurdarddóttir, proposed this bill to change the Council of Government to sharpen this role as prime minister, but after a considerable debate here at the Senate Hall, where members of the Independence Party and the forwarding party of this colony, the compromise was born that the prime minister should give a interpretation of the order of the council. That's what I'm putting together right now. But this is an interesting lesson that we can draw from the story, and I think it will be interesting in view of the discussion I was expecting here tonight. There are many ways to organise a board of administrations in every state, and Iceland's board of directors is there no exception. I find it important to stress that the organization I am here to recommend is not an organization that I believe should remain unchanged forever, but I do not believe that the Council's organization should be legally bound but that it is the Commission's right to intervene at any given time, to organize its actions in other words, and to ensure that it serves political emphasis and policy purposes at any time. I realize that changing the priorities and challenges of governments that will later come will no doubt call for a change of organization, and I also believe that it is reasonable that future prime ministers shoulder the responsibilities that come with that role and against the Council's organization so that they can get the best of their responsibilities. Because I see now that the time is very short that I have here to measure for this synonym, I will not go further into this prehistory, but it is important for the discussion presented here. However, as I came to my debate, I believe that there is good reason to review the 2011 Council Act and to evaluate the way we believe that they have served their role, whether they have ensured the flexibility they were going to ensure, whether they have ensured in the best way we consider this most important coordination function to the Prime Minister at any time. And as I declared, I will consult with all the members of the General Assembly, because as I have mentioned, I do not view the Council's organization as being made of stone, and it is very important that all classes have a part in our conversation about how we believe the frame should be done. Madam President. Iceland is now facing challenges requiring new thought, creative solutions. I mentioned here, since climate change, energy change, righteous transition, sustainable development, altered community composition and digital transformation, or technological change. These are some of the major challenges that require that the system of government work together as a unit and in increasing numbers provide a multidisciplinary approach to the issues we face. To a large extent, the government's covenant is about these big projects. I can go to more detail than I would like to mention a few of them. I would like to form the mention of the Icelandic language and its position in the international community. Much of the fact that the English language is lifting the special meaning of culture in the Council of Control. It has been required during the past few years that culture gains extra space in the administration, and this is done by suggesting the changing recruitment systems in which culture, trade, and tourism are treated as part of the culture are the creative articles that we would like to talk about when discussing culture as a professional. That's what matters. We also believe that these articles, whether in the creative articles or in the tourism industry, are facing some of the similar challenges now following a pandemic, in which they have taken a major blow. I would also like to mention tasks that require increased coordination of recruitment. In particular, I would like to refer to the policy of sustainable development that will be developed during this terms, as well as to the focus of prosperity and prosperity, which are a project that is initiated on during the last term and that has already produced significant results in evaluating our community from a more broad range of indicators than the economic and thus assessing the results that we provide as a community, not solely from economic standards, but to produce out of spiritual health, how people progress to gain a balanced balance between work and personal life. All of this calls for this improved cooperation. The concept of sustainability and the change of righteousness has to do with this. In other words, the thought behind all these changes is about promoting cooperation with advisers. I know that after serving as the Minister of Ministers in 2009,2013, when I served as Minister of Education and Culture, the greatest challenge I had in being a minister of that Ministry at a certainly challenging times was work that called for collaborating. We've built an administration that is, to a large extent, built up in the silos, and it is, of course, longer discussion and much larger than that, so it's just a workforce between the Minister and Council at the Iceland Board of Management, also a question of how we approach the project as a united government. There is something else that we should discuss on a better occasion when discussing the Constitution and changing it, for to some extent we have a system that is highly dependent on Ministerships in individual recruitments at the same time that we need to have much more coordination and much more cooperation between advisers. To ensure such coordination, it is important that we rely on the experience we have acquired, to form in the reports of the Allied Research Committees, which deal with how we can better strengthen the administration. I would like to mention in this context my report to the Council on Responses to the Allied Research Committee, submitted to the 151th legislation Council. These issues were a great deal in discussion at the time when the Council of Government law was changed. At that time, the mobility of tasks between recruitment practices and the formation of new governments was much discussed in line with the routine for developing Denmark and Norway. The Council of Government would have to be ready to face both changing political and social changes. One of the factors I believe is that when we organize our work to do well, we think of the Council of the Management Board in increasing numbers as a moving workplace, we assume that when we organize our activities, our language groups may move between advisers without causing knowledge to be lost or to become a source of relief. This is one of the things we need to keep our eyes on for such changes. On the other hand, if we do this well, I have strong faith that the European Commission can enjoy being more mobile than it has been so far, that it can create opportunities to bring together, as I mentioned earlier, culture, tourism, business, that it can provide an enormous opportunity to ensure that the introduction of a child's success is in the same Ministry as kindergartens, elementary schools, high school, where our children are learning, where it really matters to reach them in order to ensure that they can enjoy the best welfare services. To put together energy, environment, climate, and nature protection is about how important energy change and energy use are going to be successful, that it harmonizes with our view of environmental protection and to serve our climate targets. This thought was already born in 2011 when we founded the Environment and Resource Ministry, for it was, of course, supposed to be about environmental protection and resource use. We take one step in this process by shifting our energy, an important resource, to the Environment Ministry, and looking at them in order to make it really important to achieve our goals in climate change. The labour market will become more important by lifting them up in the Department of Social Affairs, where the work market has been hosted, because it is important that we add emphasis on how we can, in good collaboration with the labour market parties, work on a more healthy labour market where we are in that position, as we all know who are here in this room, and this speciality has become our market in Iceland, that there is usually a considerable number of contracts available, and, unfortunately, it is not often taken up to the level of contracts until a significant period of time. There's a great need, and it's important to raise this group. At the same time, we will move the continued education into this Ministry because we want to ensure that the work market can deal with the very changes I have to address; technology changes, climate change; because education is one of the most important tools to ensure the mobility of people in the labour market and in life and in society and ensure equal opportunities to cope with these things. I want to say in the end, because my time is extremely short, the university, industrial and innovation department. These lawsuits have been brought together in the Scientific and Technical Council, where we have actually been trying to build these important issues between university, basic science, and technological development and innovation. It has actually been successful since 2009 when the first government law was given to support the innovations. We've seen spectacular developments in this area, where the software is now one of the key exports for Iceland. With this change, we are still strengthening this important export and saying in our future vision of changing the Council of Government that we believe the design of the future is for the Icelandic industry and economy. Madam President. It was shorter than I thought. I apologize for going ahead in time but I hope to have a good discussion about these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u105	Madam President. I want to start by making the most of my time and making the most of it. Whether there are costs to this change, the prime minister remains. What will it cost, and how will the government account for the cost, or budget, of it, and will this be done with the release of a financial bill? It would be good to have that information immediately at the beginning of this discussion tonight. Of course, it is fundamental that we put it in our heads so closely as to which journey we are making. The other question I'd like to ask the highest. A minister on the matter of: When did this idea come about? How long has it been in preparation?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u106	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The estimated cost of setting up two new agencies is about 450 million. K., i.e. 190 million for the cost of each Ministry and then over 50 million, I can't remember exactly the number, 56 if I remember correctly, which is the cost of one additional minister, and two assistants, who's leaving another team. When did this idea come up? Well, in the leading of elections, the left movement was a green supply with certain ideas of leaping up in the Council of Government, looking to more closely link basic research and innovation and changing culture in the control system. If I recall correctly, the forwarding party had the idea that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was to be seen. So these ideas were on the table at least these categories in the leading election, and thus they were being discussed in the administrative business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u107	Madam President. I thank the Minister for the answer. Of course, it's not any change that makes these changes. I realize it costs something, and here it seems to me it costs half a billion to make these changes to the Board of Directors. Another question that I would like to get the answer to here at the beginning, because of the highest. The prime minister says there were some ideas in the debate before election, I remember some and others not, I better remember the discussion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs: Was there some kind of need analysis made in the formation of this government on where the most united people were in the litigation and how they worked best together? I think we all have our own ideas and opinions on how this should be and what we would like to try, but was some sort of primary diagnosis?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u108	Madam President. Yeah, I'm sorry. A senator has not read the campaign focus of the left green as well as she read the campaign emphasis on the Progress Party, but I try to live with it. It has long been our goal to focus on the integration of science and innovation and college, for it is our belief that we will include an enormous means of learning, and on the other hand, we have had a keen interest in promoting culture in the administrative sector. There we have been listening primarily; listening to the alliance of Icelandic artists, listening to the guardians of cultures who have called for this very thing. There is no need for analysis, and I approach this project based on the ideas found in the Management Board on the role of prime ministers at any time responsible for the management board's organization reflecting the importance of the government. It's really the ideologies that I live on that, of course, we go to other northern countries where these changes are frequent. What I believe, however, that we can learn from them is to look to see how we can adjust the Council to become more mobile to the future so that a new government can act on its own matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u109	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for the tour. Now I have to admit that considering the disorder and the cost of all of this, the report that follows this synopsis is not very convincing. This may sound like a follow - up for someone who may have more political power to do than have some sort of professional perspective behind it. There's a lot of stuff here that raises questions. One thing I would like to have a prime minister left is the fact that the law and regulations of preparing a prime minister from the Ministry to the Ministry of Justice are being carried out to the highest level. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson. As a result, all quality control from the government is being transferred to the Ministry of Justice. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, why this is done. I see that there's Denmark reference there, but there's not necessarily evidence in itself. During the last term, did it fail to have this role in the Ministry of Presidency?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u110	Madam President. There are no natural laws in this, and before this was transferred to the Ministry of Presidency, it was here at the General Assembly, so it is very short since this was transferred to the Ministry of Presidency. It is a very well-targeted project, and it is primarily about the reading of a law-employer and ensuring that it meets the views established by the government, but it is not a political policy program. This was previously held at the General Assembly, was transferred to the Ministry of Presidency, and, in fact, a question also arose four years ago regarding where this was best at home. But it is, and it beats me like this when it's too late. A senator speaks of this massive disorder and that it is not a professional viewpoint, that when we consider the story, we can see that the projects do not belong somewhere by physical laws, but it is all about political policy at one time. I'd like to ask you what. At that time, a senator resists how he feels about it, to form the government of his group of sisters in Norway, appoints a new Ministry or the government of his group in Denmark to install a new Ministry. Does he think it's a disorder and unnecessary, or does he consider it to be a sign of clear political policy for the government of his sister party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u111	Madam President. I think it's best to start a new ministry, but you insist that it's convincing enough to back it up. One thing you're wondering is that there's a new superintendent, and the argument is that it can be useful in the infrastructure to unite there a number of cases in a single department. Then I wonder if it's the highest. The prime minister is not concerned that it can weaken his education to tear them apart over many departments, whether this is not the argument that goes on in both directions. Another concern is that in the section on social and workforce, the importance of economic and collective agreements is expressed, while all housing support and housing markets are being provided at the same time, when the key factors are evident in terms of how important it really is. in winter collective agreements that social housing will be effectively supported. How does this work out?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u112	Madam President. I totally understand why. A senator to replace the Ministry of Education. Now I know the Ministry well after I've been there for four years myself. This is quite an enormous service, as it has seemed so far. Perhaps that is why the appeal we have heard from artists and cultural institutions about the greater importance in the administration. Of course, when you're about to set off a tour of the Ministry individually, you look at what is customary in the North countries where basic, dramatic, and high school are just together in one Ministry and University and science together. It is the inspiration that we take into account that these are both very important lawsuits, which certainly have a measure of harmony, but they do not necessarily need to be together in the Ministry to achieve that agreement. As for the Department of wood, we are retrieving a series of inspirations to the North countries where organizational matters, rural affairs and housing matters are frequently met in the Ministry to gain a better perspective on the need for building up. [[The president calls.]] And I could say much more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u113	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister of History. Now I'm not going to go into any ring or any other such discussion, but there's one thing that brings my special attention to this, that's communication. I'd like to begin with a special celebration, since the Department of Transport has been changed to Internal Affairs. I think it's a really good change made by many people with deep knowledge of these sectors for a long time, so I'm happy to. But I don't understand why communication is being taken out there. If the prime minister had any explanation, I would be interested in hearing it, because I am not in the suggestion or in the paper that a single word has to do with communication. I understand they're going to have a commercial, industrial... [[Up front.]] Now there are the names of the senators here on the list, but I think it would be wise for us senators to put in another list here where new recruitment names would be released, so we have some chance to remember their names, this new Ministry. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]] But the question stands, Your Excellency. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u114	Madam President. Yeah, I can say with what. A senator said it is wise to put here a list of Ministers' names while we make practice of these changes. Of course, when it comes to communication, it is key - and I reiterate it, as I said in my speech, that what we suggest about how we manage projects is not the only truth and other governments might conduct them differently. But the reason we put our communications in the Department of Science, Industrial, and Neonography is simply a close link to the changes in technology, which I discussed earlier in my introduction, and that the structure of these technological changes is primarily based on a powerful network of national telecommunications. This led to the conclusion that we wanted to link it to this Ministry of Knowledge, which we could simply call, but the communication is actually the basis for so many things in this department's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u115	Madam President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. The other thing I'd like to try to get my hands on the expansion of the administrative department at this time - the highest level. A minister did well here over the cost of a change in basics. But I would like to ask, " What are the privileges that do not move from other counselors to the new consulting? ' Is there going to be some complete new assignment with this changed organization? And this related task, which would tell of this new assignment, if any, was the one that could not be arranged in the resources that we know so well?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u116	Madam President. I suspect what. A senator speaks of being such a conservative of the bone when he speaks of the old Ministry we know so well of, such affection. But let us remind ourselves that the Ministry is primarily a government tool to enforce policy. That's a pretty big question to ask. A senator brings up the following: What assignments are not being given but are still new projects? Well, I don't dare say that I can answer it completely in an exhaustive way, but I do know that for example in the new Presidency decision of a righteous transition, which is the key of the Treaty and is under the Presidency and Office of Presidency policies, and is involved in integrating the response to these large social changes, whether as a technical change or as a climate change. So it is to form a new project or a new emphasis, we can say. Pre-U.S. Presidential decision also includes a measure of prosperity. It's not a new assignment. It's a project that we started in our last term but mentioned in the Precinct. I hope this will only explain this picture to you. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u117	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Prehistoric proposal for the resolution of the changed order of Council at the Iceland Board of Management, which states that the Council will conclude, with reference to Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, to support the proposed change in the number and vows of the Council of Management Board. I think we're updating the budget from five to seven. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Prime Minister regarding the transfer of employees of the Council between councils: Is that a job begun and will be followed by law on rights and duties of public employees? I'll take it, for example. examples of the Ministry of Presidency that the issue of rights has arrived, probably from the Ministry of Justice. In fact, this is not in the suggestion, but in coordination, I understand that climate issues have also arrived at the Ministry of Presidency. I call attention to the fact that we've reached the climate department. So, what are the climate issues also doing in the Presidency Department?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u118	Madam President. I just want to reiterate it because of my answer to a question why. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son earlier, that no new project can be made by means of a presidency, just part of a project that has been decided to emphasize. Thank you. Eyjólfur The Ármannsson's server. Yes, the rights and responsibilities of the public workers in this assignment will, of course, be taken care of. We've had conversations with the staff of the consultants, and there's quite a problem with carrying out an assignment. In some cases it is simply one office that can be moved with a man and a mouse, but in other cases it is sometimes a job done across the offices or in part by certain employees, which, of course, calls it a conversation with employees and decisions. But I'm going to put the emphasis on all of this, and we've had the best support of the state of Kjara and human resources, are, of course, assured of the rights and ideal staff.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u119	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I'd like to ask about the fact that the proposal for Congress suggests that two of the Presidential decision has already been changed, including the president's section on the switch between the executives of the Council, as well as the switch to the task force. So, when this body of Congress proposal is approved, which I expect will pass, will the President's orders have to be re-edited again? This shows a bit of how much steam this is all about, but November 28th was a changed Presidential measure for the switch between administrations at Iceland's Management Board. We are now up to 13 and are now making significant changes in the Presidential decision. What for? And will this be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u120	Madam President. 12 Ministry, it should be, not 13. There's a 10 to 12, so we got the numbers straight. I'd like to mention it, too, for the first answer. A senator, because the climate situation is listed in two places, it is mainly the role of the Ministry of President to watch integrated climate integration with all other policies in the Management Board, but the very professional climate policy is in the Environment and Climate Ministry. For the sake of looking at a change in Presidential decision, Presidential decision was immediately changed to ensure that ministers would control the classes that are due to be heard. However, we cannot change our resources unless we receive support and agree to a greater part of the Council with adjustments in the budget. This means the nature of the matter, according to the fact that we could not increase our problems without first going to the Generals. That's the law on the Council of Control. However, it is possible to change the decision of the president and bring the segregation between classes. Will the Presidential decision change again? Yes, I don't feel that there will be any minor changes when this recruitment process is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u121	Madam President. I come up here to discuss a proposal for Congress as the highest. Prime Minister has now recommended, of the changed order of recruitment at Iceland's Management Board. The proposal will then be referred to the management and monitoring committee after a previous discussion. I would like to do this talk primarily to review the general reaction to the changes that are being suggested, but I may not go deeply into a material chapter. That's what they'll do on the Committee. The suggestion will, of course, be very careful there. I think, Madam President, the question we need to answer is, are these changes strengthened by the administration and the Board of Directors? Are these changes designed to improve the effectiveness of the advisory and the work of the Council? I'm not going to rule out that it is, and in itself I don't argue with the ideas of a combination of schemes, although there are things where I want better explanations when we start researching the suggestions better. I think, however, that keeping our eyes on what we're doing or what the government wants to change the Council of Government--and then I'm just gonna put aside the growth of Ministers, three categories of cooperation and all the politicians that obviously lie there. However, I would like to assume that the proposal is proposed to improve control and to achieve better results. Of course, this is how all those who have worked in the board know that there are several of the sour hearings and that they do not always work right between them. And from the material changes presented here, I believe that a major project is to break down walls and promote cooperation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's necessary. But it's also about Iceland's board of directors and that the government of Iceland is not a multi-organized government, but I'm not going to have that discussion tonight. However, we do know that the Council is not one work force. There are many jobs, many departments, many offices. This alone often makes the partnership difficult or harder than it should be. And just to review it, it was so clearly revealed by the introduction of an equally paid witness in the Board of Directors that it is not one place of work, but that it had to be done in each Ministry. In fact, it also showed us, without me discussing dresser matters at the Board of Directors, that people are being hired on a very different basis based on which department they are hired. Then I come to the point where I think it's very important that we at the Board of Directors and Observers keep in mind and investigate well. This is not just a question of changing projects, vowing on councils, etc., people's work places are being changed. People who have the right to have opinions of these changes, to take part in these changes, are changing their work places, and are able to adapt properly. Staff transport is, of course, a procedure, but it needs to be handled very well. Another small issue that has been discussed for this reason is the effects that will be seen in the agencies of recruitment. There's a little bit of puzzleing what belongs to where and who belongs to who. It's not something that will be done or finished in one or two weeks. I can see that the induction of these big changes can take months and even miss. I think it is very important that a body of Congress can understand this and the government will understand that these changes will not be made overnight, if they happen. Everybody needs to know where they live. It's not just because I talked about the Board of Directors as the Workplace and, in fact, many workplaces. The board's role is natural service to citizens, services to our community, a service that really runs Iceland. It has to be clear in the general citizen's mind where he or she is to look, who does what. These changes must not become unnecessary, so people may find it harder to understand what is being done in their councils and what services or rights or other activities they can look to. Obviously, actions, quality, standards, and such things need to be considered. V.E.G. One minister spoke of the flexibility of the system, and I wondered if increasing recruitment will increase the flexibility of the system. I don't think there's anything given that's gonna happen. A decade ago, significant changes were made in the Council of Government, with the aim of making the Ministry bigger and fewer, stronger, better, more efficient. Now we're somewhere else. In these organizational changes at the Council of Management Board, we may go a little bit like the pendulum between the ends, but we need to be absolutely clear about what these changes are being made to do. What success does the government want with change? Has it really been put down? Have ministers set aside: Why are we doing this? This group of paintings belongs well with these and this better with the others? But what? Although it does not in itself sound too bad to bring together science and university levels and innovation, it is a long tradition that the whole school system will stick together in the Council of Government, if you can put it that way. We need to know the consequences of this. What does this mean for the cooperation of school levels? What does that mean - as my good friends in the Institute of Science told me the other day, "Wait, have I come to the Ministry of Industrial Affairs?" The university is a university, and we need to know exactly what we're doing this. The fear of independence, of course, is a fear of some way being weighed, and this is not to be the case. These ideas can be understood, therefore, that more talk about bone connection between university and professional life may somehow undermine the original function of the university. But we will consider this well on the committee. V.E.G. The prime minister answered my question about the cost, and we, of course, also go to the sewing of him on the board and on the board of directors. I think it's typical Icelandic in that it's now only time for this. It may be that this is the only way Iceland and I know how to change things, but we're not gonna do anything on a board of administration and monitoring committee. We will consider this matter very carefully, its grounds, its targets, its costs, its possible consequences for the board as a whole, as well as for the people who are working there and how it will come out for them. I'm not going to have any more words on this proposal, Mrs. President, but I expect to cooperate with it with the members of the Board of Directors and Control.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u122	Madam President. I come up first and foremost to thank you. A senator for a very good speech and agrees with the views she presented here to show that services to the citizens are, of course, the key role of the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Sometimes I forget how important this role is, and I completely agree. A senator that no breach can be made in this role of the Board of Directors. Then I'd like to say that, of course, it's being won fast, but I think it's important to go. The Commission and the Commission now have the time ahead of January to address the questions. A senator mentioned here. I'd like to say that this is one of the things I've been thinking about in terms of the academic independence and freedom of college, which was exactly a law in my time as a minister of education and cultural culture, and which is of utmost importance in this context, because at the same time as it's interesting to make sure that we're building bridges between the intellectual workings and the colleges must not be at the expense of the independent scientific and basic research that is entirely dependent on the pursuit of knowledge. I just wanted to come up here because it's a matter that I find extremely important and that I burn. Again, though, I would like to reiterate that the state of the Board of Directorates does not necessarily change these topics that are designed to form a very clear code in the university that was changed in its own time, 2011, if I recall correctly. I just wanted to say the word. Of course, a senator and reiterate that the Ministry of Presidency will be fully prepared for all services. A committee to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u123	Madam President. I appreciate the answer from the highest. Prime Minister. I mentioned the university as an example, and I have no doubt at all about it. Prime Minister stands by the academic freedom and the pursuit of knowledge and basic research. What we need to think is how this mixture works within the Ministry when and if it does, and what that means, and if it means, the emphasis is on some classes over others. Of course, there is something yet to be revealed. Without me going to give myself something about it, it's really big that I think we have to face that they're gonna take time. I think it's very important that at the beginning of the discussion here at the council we decide to be careful, that we decide here that the quality needs to be considered, here that righting staff needs to be considered, here to consider the objectives of the change, because hopefully we all agree that we want to strengthen the administrations, to strengthen the board and to improve the results and cooperation within them. I'm just wondering, just at the end of the day, Madam President, if it's the highest. In this preparation, the prime minister thought about breaking down all the walls of the council and putting the Council on one social security number.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u124	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. With the permission of the President, I would like to refer to this synonym, which states: 'The demand for flexibleness and reactogenicity of the system has become increasingly relevant over the years, along with the rapid changes in society.' And then it says down here: The changes in Iceland's Ministry Council, as proposed above, are aimed at ensuring that the Council of Management is in the best position to address the challenges of community activities ahead of time in line with the priorities laid down in the Government Convention for an upcoming terms. I was told earlier, hopefully I hadn't heard you wrong. A senator, when you asked the highest. Prime Minister of a new assignment, and I could not help but hear the words of the highest. Prime Minister but that she did not know that there was some particular new assignment. Then you ask: What is the point of the change if it is not for a new assignment? To me, it's a little bit like shooting first and then asking. What do you think? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u125	I want less of it. A senator should use a wording properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u126	Madam President. I don't really think it's my job to answer for the government in these matters, I just can't. Of course, it must be that, no matter what the number of recruitments in the Board of Directors, people should be able to handle the tasks they want to do. What is so obvious, though, is, as we have noted, that there are three groups of ideas here, probably. It is appropriate for these three groups of directors to put these together in this way. Some of it makes sense to me, some of it doesn't. I feel that there are some things that I can do. I don't think it's as well explained in the Senate arrangement. So it will only be necessary and necessary to study these and arrange for members of the committee to explain the changes more fully. The proposal has many references to the challenges of new times, the fourth industrial revolution, etc. There are many challenges in the community, and we're all dealing with them every day. But I hope that these changes do not rule out anything in that matter or that some door is shut by the board of directors. Better now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u127	A respectable president. If I'm not using an address properly, I'm still a student here in the first place. I hope the President respects the will for the job. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, who is horrified by experience as a environmental minister - I was now not asking her to defend the government but merely to get her opinion on the subject as such. We see that a new Food Ministry is being developed that includes. is receiving a project from the Environment Department, the agricultural capacity. I think it's special, that land transplant is in the same place as the Department of Agriculture. I would have thought it should be either place, and I feel that land healing is environmental and therefore belong at the Environment Ministry. How does a former environmental minister feel about these changes being made?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u128	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. One of the things I'm thinking about are these changes suggested by creating an environment, resource and energy Ministry, or the Ministry of the climate, and now you have to try to remember what to call it. Yet, many main projects of the Environment Ministry have been taken out of it and put them elsewhere. One thing about organization, construction, and other matters, and then whatever. A member of the United States noted land - healing and forestry. I think the answer to this is simply that it reflects the political emphasis of this government, and of course, this government is free to have the emphasis it wants on that matter. I'm not sure that I agree with them, and I don't quite see what the goals are trying to achieve by these changes. I can't answer that in any other way. But there are some changes I'd at least make They would like to have far better explanations and logical support for them than for the many challenges in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u129	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying, because I can't really sit on, that when I read this proposal for Congress, I'll read that the General concluded to support the proposed change in the country's board of directors and contracts. Then there are five members of the Ministry, saying that this will be the seven Ministry. One of these committees to come is called the university, industrial, and innovation department. When I look at the Presidential decision last November 28, I read in the President's section on the switch of Ministers, which is expected to be the same Ministry as the university, industry and innovations, that says that it's the scientific, industrial, and innovation minister. The minister's supposed to be something other than the Ministry. So it's supposed to have a university, industrial and innovation Ministry, but the Minister's a science, industrial, and innovation minister. I remember it so well that the minister spoke of the acronym VIN. I just don't think this document is available for Congress treatment, I'm just gonna say exactly what it is. We're talking about state headquarters, the republic, and that's a mistake. Iceland's Council is being asked to support the proposed change in mass and hot halls of Iceland's Management Board, which conflicts with the Presidential decision since November 28. As a senator, I cannot accept this proposal. I can't take a stand on this because this conflicts with the Presidential decision from November 28th in terms of the vows. I just want it to come out. It would be very interesting to know something about it. Since I'm just a member of the council, maybe you can fix this, it's now national property to sort things out. But then I turn to the matter in other respects, I see that November 28th was issued two presidents' decision; Presidential decision on the switch of Ministers, No. 126, and the President's section on the switch between executives at Iceland's Management Board, No. 125. In that decision, 10 members of the Ministry have their old name. There's no need to list them here. But if we look at the President's section on the switch of ministers where the scientific, industrial, and innovation minister is, we have 12 ministers, i.e. They divide 10 conferences between 12 Ministers. That's the way it is, they do it like that. So it's all right to do so. It is referred to the numbers on matters of government in the Precinct No. 126, on the switch to the minister's work. In itself, I agree very much that the government of each time can organize its tasks as it seems appropriate. But I do believe that what is presented here is not going to work at all. There is not a single word on the basis of all the advisers, who are the offices. I always thought this would only be done on the basis of the office, that the offices would be moved under the ministers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is being cut into the Council's base unit, which I don't think can be done in such a short time. I don't think it's gonna work out, but that's my opinion. When you look into this, it goes into it, for example. of verse 15. Iceland's constitution, it says: ▪ The President takes orders and releases the minister. He will determine their numbers and switch jobs with them. That's what he's doing in the Presidential decision. It doesn't say that the Allied must bring it, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then we have a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, and I know that there's also a 1969 law that's coming in there. I have not studied a dance command in this regard, but I suspect the Danes will completely eliminate this with a royal decision, the details they do. Why at the World Council of Iceland, when the law says that the President decides the number of ministers and exchanges with them? That's what he does in the Presidential decision. But then we have this strange suggestion, asking that the Council conclude to support the proposed change of mass and hot text. First, the name of the scheme is wrong on the basis of a court order. So I don't think it works. Second, a number of the Ministers have also been appointed in the Precinct. What are we doing? If we look at the text of the proposal, this does not seem to work out completely in this regard. I also believe that the contents are on the same book. I know it's a legitimate law. We're not about to change them now, but I think maybe it's an introduction to the future... to review the European Council's legislation completely from the bottom... and based on what it says in the Constitution that Presidential decision is made, i.e. that the president determined the number of counsellors and exchanges with counsellors. This document is very simple, it's just a number and a name and one name is wrong. Then if we go back to the content of the synoptic arrangement, this doesn't seem to be one or anything. When I read this, I see something about the role of prime minister in 2nd chapter. In particular, I call attention to chapter 2, the Council of Management of Iceland. It says at the end of the first paragraph, with permission from the president: Thus, the planning and implementation of projects between the Management Board can be an essential part of meeting new challenges and meeting new challenges or changing projects according to the needs of the times. This is how this continues a paragraph after a paragraph: The demand for flexibility and reactant control of the system has become increasingly important over the years, along with rapid social change. Then what is taking place? Yes, the collapse of the bank is beginning to happen. Yes, we are still in 2008, over 13 years after the collapse of the bank. So says: ▪ The lessons that are considered in the General Commission report are relevant to all aspects of the activities and role of the European Commission. So we're stuck here in the collapse, totally. And then there's the State Department, and there's one agency missing for the advance party. There should be three, four and five departments. Then we'll go to the collapse. To me, this is a pardon, a respectable president, an absolute stowaway who has come into existence here. It says that there was a multidisciplinary approach and encouraged increased mobility, etc. And it continues to say that changes in the Council of Management are intended to ensure that the best equipped work is to handle the challenges of community activities. That's what's going on, sort of in every paragraph: However, the approach presented here is consistent with the development of a discussion on the issues that call for a equilibrium between innovation and protection. And then, with the President's permission, a completely irreparable sentence at the end: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. What have people been doing in the Council of Government for the past few years? I was a financial employee myself, and there's a lot of knowledge in those conferences. But to get to the Board of Directors in this manner that is being done here and transfer workers to work together to get one of the High Priests in the government -- that's just not going to work at all. And then the Ministry of Presidency. Yeah, yeah, they get the human rights business. Who's against human rights? And get the coordination on climate issues too. Who's against it? There are feathers being decorated in the seminaries - a climate minister is here, but he is not supposed to do the coordination. It is the prime minister who handles the coordination. Of course, the minister of the seminary handles the coordination. That's the way it is. And that goes on for a long time. I see my time is running out. We can see here at last a Ministry, which is kind of my favorite ministry in this chapter, i.e. The Ministry of Culture and Business. It is packed with competitiveness, government support, consumers, trade, service, media, museums, culture, Icelandic language, and so forth. When you read the chapter - yes, culture is big in Iceland, and tourism is an important industry, but it's about to link travel all of a bit with culture. Culture is completely unrelated to travel. It needs to be connected with nature or something, they should be at the Environment Ministry. But I see that time is running out. I don't think this case is available for the Congress treatment of the faults I mentioned and that, in fact, it is not acceptable for the International Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u130	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I feel compelled to come up here to cross a canal. This is three decisions based on one another in a specific order, i.e. for the switch between the Ministry's Office, the switch between the Directorates and finally the switch to the office of Ministers. Hv. A senator rightly notices that in the November 28th Precinct, the Ministry of Science, Industrial, and New Creation is referred to. This suggestion is not an error when talking about the Ministry of University, Industrial, and innovation. Rather, it was our conclusion that after the seminaries had been moved. A new minister had been given the opportunity to cross the stage, and it was her suggestion that the term would be changed to the Ministry of University, Industrial, and Neons. So it's not an error. It's a suggestion. When this proposal is taken out of the way I came to this very brief counterpoint, the Presidential decision will be adjusted accordingly to the agreement of the proposal. I just wanted to emphasize that there wasn't some kind of sad misunderstanding here. A lot of what happened. A senator mentioned this was interesting. I noticed, however, that he specifically mentioned that he was not opposed to the basic idea that the execution of action would change a job as if it seemed best to achieve his policies. He would have chosen to do it differently. That's perfectly normal. I would like to comment, however, that from the thoughts we have in our system, where Prime Minister makes coordinations between consultations, it does not resist the fact that professional ministers are responsible for coordination in order to form the introduction to some form of a transverse course and kuss at the Ministry. That is what the prime minister is for. It's his job. I just wanted to get that look right here, and now I'm sure I'm gonna do it. A senator would agree with me on that interpretation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u131	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Opportunity. When I read the paper with the proposal for interpretation, I read the following, with the permission of a president: ▪ A planned increase in recruitment and the change in their vows is a final factor in the major change in Iceland's Council of Management, which was presented in connection with the formation of a new government at the end of November / s.-I draw attention to: which was presented in connection with the formation of a new government by the end of November - ◯ by the release of the Presidential decision on the switch of administrations in the Council of Directories in Iceland's Council of Directors Council - it is one decision -- ◯ and Presidential decision on the switch of Ministers. There are two decisions, and if I hear the right thing, it'll speak for the best. Prime Minister on three decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u133	Yeah, there's only two here in the report. The report clearly needs information. I just want to state that I completely agree that the government of every time can switch, but it should do so on the basis of the Office. But going to sort things out of my office, that's much bigger. I know it's a faulty system, as I described earlier, and I have my opinions on it on the basis of the Constitution. I don't think it's a document that should be offered and I just hope that the council will deny this, that we don't support this, both because one name is wrong and yes, it's changed the name, but the President's decision must be changed first, I think, and then we'll come to Generals and request approval and support of the number of advisers and the name of the advisers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u134	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech earlier and also the highest. Prehistoric prime minister. It's a pleasure to be loved. Prime Minister is actively involved in the discussion on this subject. This is no small thing, I think, quite for a lot and a great and full reason to pay attention to it, both here at the Senate Hall and then, of course, in the Committee's work and that the Senate will be a bit active in this. I'd like to ask you what. A senator from his speech earlier because he began to mention it with a collapse. Of course, a lot of research started after the crash and tried to figure out how crazy it was for the operator, what we could do, for example. did to fix our operating system, all our devices, in the long run, in order to keep something like this from happening again. I've noticed something when it's the highest. Ministers of the government talk about this case they sometimes refer, and this is actually done in the report as well, but it's a little selective, some being taken and some other things are released. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because he referred to it through the collapse and the research report, and all of it, how he feels, after work at the research report, and the suggestions there were in mind. to reduce and expand the Ministry, to agree with the results we see here in the report and, of course, only in the Council's Order as planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I fully agree with the report of the Allied Research Committee on reducing and strengthening the problem. The Icelandic government is very ill. But now their numbers are growing again, and this is done politically so that the division of ministers between the classes is three, four, five, where left greens, which lost over 4% in elections, do not lose a chair. That's the point. The powers of the Council are not being thought of in any way. Regarding the collapse, I'd also like to point out that there is a great demand for a change in the national administration and to the Iceland Board of Directors. These changes are in no way at any given time. These are political changes between the classes in order to reach one position. I believe it is important that we take seriously what is presented in the report and that the instructions that were provided will be followed. It's just taken a very long time. Today we were discussing the damages. One of the main struggles of the people is that there will be a decrease. They were placed around the collapse, and they are still in effect. They haven't been disabled yet. This, apparently, still applies to what happened 13 years ago, the magnitude of what took place during the first week of October 2008. I'd like to use this past half-minute I have here to say that this document, proposal to be held here after eight o'clock in the evening, I don't now say in the shelter of the night, but it's just totally incorruption that we're wasting time late at night, between eight and 12, to cover this important matter, and that Congress doesn't get more time to cover it. It's totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator before. In his first speech, I decided that he mentioned the switch between counseling and the separation of language classes within the Board of Directorates. I think it's a little interesting to talk about because men often get involved, I'm not saying why. A senator does so, but it is sometimes published that it is absolutely basic that the case groups of one ministerial servant connect in a completely unconventional manner. Then we have the Department of Culture and Business, which I think is not wrong with myself at the Prince's Tip. But it was one of the juglers who mentioned that at last the poem had entered the Ministry of Business, good if it wasn't Bragi Valdimar. So I wanted to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What would you say against the fact that one and the same minister may have two different lawsuits under the same Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. I believe that each office should have a professional relationship to use the knowledge of employees. There is vast knowledge in the government system, and it is very important that such knowledge is in the same place that knowledge of the same subject is not widely distributed throughout the country. I think it's important that the climate minister have climate issues and also handles co-ordination, that it's not being made up of anything, its coordination, and moving to the Ministry of Presidency. That's what I think is very important. I also think it is important, and this may not be related to the small point, that employees of the highest court of the government are allowed only to enjoy themselves, not being trapped in a certain set of issues, that it is the transfer of employees between them, so that knowledge and experience will become useful. I think it's a lot bigger than bringing one of the extra departments. This requires much more time and a much better view. [[The president calls.]] I just see it about the identity change. They decided to turn science into a university in the name of the one Ministry. Why? [[The president calls.]] Yeah, something better fit. I see no particular difference between the words science and college, science in college. [[The president calls.]] But I see time is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u138	The president reminds the senators to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u139	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the body of elders, who was evidently inspired by his once active activity in the Board of Directors. I've sometimes talked about this idea that was developed by stewards and government leaders that it's as if they thought the projects were all on the table of ministers, and therefore they could be assigned just as much as they wish. There may be no need to consider the number of people working within the plot. It whispered to me that an employee from within the council was expected to be exported 200 of the 700 members of the Board of Directors on these transfers. This is how early it seems to me that changes, in which the causes are being presented, are at least 14 and, above all, 24 transfers, I'd like to ask you why. A senator who has been a member of the Board of Directorates at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as he explained himself, how such transport can affect the work within the recruitment process, the staff group, and the perspective and efficiency that take place at such large places as this, hundreds of people at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When consulting issues are being introduced, they also include, if they are also involved in conveying knowledge to the subject, transport to the employee, and this can have a tremendous impact on him. It may be incompatible, it may decide to quit work, knowledge may disappear, etc. Moving issues without transporting the whole workplace - the workplace is an office at the Ministry, where the working team you're working with all day - is to have one employee out of the office in some other environment that they may not be comfortable with, the knowledge may disappear. There is no thought of the knowledge that is there and the workers who are there. I don't know, but I'm going to. I don't think it's too unlikely that any knowledge and experience will disappear. But this may work out as usual. This part of this Minister seems completely overlooked, I think. That was a good time. A senator earlier, former chairman of BHM, who came into this show. It is fundamental and very important that all employees be allowed to enjoy themselves in the work. I now have a new field of activity, and this is a big transition. It's a big transition for an employee to go from one ministry to another. That's a fundamental change. Iceland's management board is not one of the workplaces, it was divided in a workplace that I would think were the offices in the big plots. I don't know what I'm talking about. But this is something that I feel completely overlooked. In the kind of community it is today, it is extremely important to maintain a knowledgeable person and a lot of knowledge. In Icelandic society, the knowledge of the public system is completely underestimated.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u141	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. A senator is quite stuck in the form, and he wants to be careful with this kind of work, I've heard. I've noticed that the highest. A prime minister has spoken of a growing number of schemes from 10 to 12, but during the last term the Ministry was 11 because they were increasing when the Ministry of Health was divided into two Ministryes, Department of Social Affairs, and Health. I wondered, " What does this matter? ' Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator into what appears here, e.g. As for the Ministry of Economics, most of it is unchanged in the Council of Control and not stated anything further, but later on in the Senate resolution proposal, it is said that e.g. State responsibilities are moving on to a new Ministry, now the Ministry of Culture and Business. I think the state-respect case was in the Ministry of finance, as Google search machine shows me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u142	A respectable president. State responsibilities, that they have been transferred from the Ministry of finance. I just don't get it. I didn't notice, but I think it's a big deal because, of course, they're supposed to be in the finance Department. It's the secretary who will write up the responsibility in the end. He's the one responsible for the government's finances, not some other minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u143	The culture and the secretary of business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u144	The minister of culture and commerce. It's the Ministry of travel, the competition and the consumers. I don't understand that transition. I just have to say right now. Of course, the government matters have to be in the Ministry of finance where they live. I just want to come in on the Presidential decision. Well, that's a solid case, my personal opinion is that it's in the Presidential decision alone, not in this council-made arrangement. It doesn't belong there. All we're going to do here is support the proposed change in the number of hot schemes. It's all taken care of. This is done in a court order, and the president decides their numbers and divides them. [[The president calls.]] That's where it's done. [[The president calls.]] There are multitudes, and so do the vows.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u145	Madam President. Thank you, I repeat, to the highest degree. Prime Minister for presenting this matter to us, putting it here. Of course, we have an opportunity to discuss this now. I'd like to mention in particular that I agree very much that the Council of Government is a dinamic, that every time rulers can, and that they have a lot of freedom to transfer tasks as their emphasis leads them to. Of course, it is natural to do so. However, I would also like to be very clear that it does not care how it is done. Then I'm not necessarily talking about what groups of subjects hang out but just the decision-making process. I mentioned earlier that much is referred to at the General's study report but overlooked that one conclusion there is, of course, that there are fewer problems, more to be larger units, and more likely to remain. I didn't see any better on the news the other day than a former chief. Prime Minister Sigurðardóttir Sigurdarddóttir said that these suggestions were actually just a long nose, were giving the study report a long nose with this application. Let us, though, leave some of this choice at its height. Governments already find out what to take from the study report and what not. I have to scratch my head over the sequence of events. This is presented as building a better foundation for fighting for a better world. Of course, fighting against the climate is specifically mentioned, the fourth industrial revolution, the use and activation of these opportunities, and all of it. It's a project that's been available for a long time, but all I can see is that the sequence of events is that it's a matter of government development. Although here and there in the election campaign, and even some groups had it on their policy list, they discussed how we should conduct the Board of Government I can't see better than that this was just discussed at this three-man meeting where the government was forming the government. There has been no consultation or at least anything spoken into the Ministry, just to see if this particular exchange would bring back the goals that are being tried to achieve. What are the benefits? What's the problem with that? What would be the cost? We haven't got to do anything about that kind of work. I kind of feel a little bit sorry about this. The report does not indicate that it speaks highly of what this is to be returned. In fact, there are some fun words in all of that, I'm going to tell you. One word I liked to see is that this is a closer course. I want to see what's behind it. I'd like to see how it was decided, what kind of need analysis was made. V.E.G. The prime minister here mentioned that the rule is very clear, that, of course, is the highest. The prime minister to hold on to this and decide how this should be, of course, with others who make up the government. But there is nothing to forbid the Ministry to go down to, to these guys who are always talking about, and sometimes talk about the need to break up, looking for viewpoints and opinions to see if it is appropriate to do this in this way in our battle against the climate and whether this is the best way to enable the opportunity for the fourth industrial revolution, etc. I feel like it's missing I mentioned in a speech yesterday that every time the state moves, buys something, or goes into some kind of policy or something, there's a lot of work behind it. It's just that way. If we build a house or a marauder, or whatever, there are various kinds of analysis, experts consider how to handle matters and what to do. Then, when we are going to set up the whole Board of Directors for a purpose and with some vision of the future, this analysis will not be carried out. It seems then, because we have not been given to see anything else, that the ideas of three individuals, as fine as they are, the rulers, are put on paper, and so it is carried out. We see that the top law in the councils came from the mountains when it was introduced, and the ministers themselves, who accepted new recruitments, knew nothing and were just getting it directly into their arms when the government was introduced. As much as I'm into the fact that the Council is a virgin and alive, I don't find it comforting, and I'd love to get more information on this if there is, so I'll just mention it in this speech. Who were e.g. When this was still part of the administrative period, did it come into practice? Were there any others besides assistants to the Ministers? Did they talk to the Ministry, experts, or anything like that? I would like to see that very much. Then, of course, such work goes on to try not only to pick out the benefits of doing something but also to try to see the obstacles. Are there obstacles or lions on the road? How will we react? Such work would surely save less than a few centenarians if such lions were then on the road, since we do not yet know. I don't find it comforting to be the highest. The secretary of finance would come in here and just have no idea what this will cost. Although this is explained to some extent in the report, there is much to be known about the cost and since it is not available in a clearer way, it must likewise be possible to doubt that it is given that the benefits of this will be the one being put on. These are perhaps the key points I would like to mention in this talk. Of course, I want to get more details on the following points and then, of course, into the work of the Committee when the situation begins. I hope to the highest. Prime Minister, because I see that she is listening to us and has been having an active part in the discussion, would offer some of the answers I am asking for, and, depending on the events, that some members of the council join in the discussion as well. Of course, that would be a real challenge. I'm not going to keep this further here in my first speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u146	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I took it because he said he'd support Iceland's Council for the Council of Government as a pantheon, but then I called for clear reasons to change the Council of Government. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, in view of the nature of recruitment that is different from the standard of state: The Council is the institutions that take policy as a minister who has more political work behind them, and is it not reasonable that it is the political leadership that makes a decision to change the Council of Government because the Ministry submits to laws other than traditional government agencies in this respect? Then I'd like to point the trigger. A senator will, because he quoted the study report, that there is a great deal in the General's study report that is not stated in the report, e.g. that the staff budget is not determined by the total staff but by the staff's ability to handle the challenges the board needs to meet. [[The president calls.]] And because of what? A senator mentioned the situation that occurred after a collapse when the Council had to be significantly cut down and in all problems, that, of course, it was only natural to attack a reduction in recruitment practice. [[The president calls.]] Happily, though, that situation has been fulfilled in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u147	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer and the Question. Of course, it is a political decision on what the Ministry should look like, and of course, political responsibility is ultimately responsible for what humans will have to answer for, and all of that. But there is nothing wrong with doing so. There is nothing wrong in the middle of a government development process that when you have decided some particular development of projects between recruitment and other things, they may just go down to the Ministry and wonder: " What happens if we do this? What are the benefits? What are the faults? This can be done without any confidential talk about the content of a government covenant or the conduct of a government discussion in other respects. I can't see that there's anything against doing this in this way. I imagine, and I'm just going to allow myself to say that if it hadn't been so much about adding a minister to the parish then this debate and replacement of the Council would have been so that the government had introduced itself and then a few months later, the changes would have been introduced after careful treatment and management. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u148	Madam President. The board of directors is unchanging. The best time to make changes in the Council's project change, I'd say, after being in three governments, is always the beginning of the terms of an elected period. It is best to set off on the road of a new terms with a fairly clear change of work. What I want to ask you is why. The senator on the second contrary is his opinion on the arrangement that was far off here, i.e. to have the Ministry written into a law that, of course, makes all changes more difficult, or the Norwegian system, where the Commission actually makes this decision without the arrival of the council, and we in Iceland now have some kind of interlocking between the old Icelandic and the Norwegian. Does he believe that the Council should state how the Council is divided, or does he consider this to be the subject of the Commission? Would it be in opposition to having an opinion of a change in the terms of the Generals? [[The president calls.]] It's about some of the government's trinities, and I'm curious to hear what it's all about. There's a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u149	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Opportunity. I still don't quite understand where you're going. I'm not critical of the arrangement. I'm criticizing how it's done. There is nothing to criticize that the prime minister and the government will decide that they want to put the climate issues in the way they do and capture the opportunity of the fourth industrial revolution, doing so by this exchange of schemes and other factors. I just think that at this job like all work where public funds are done, where such big cases and important things are under, it's okay to look, analyze, weigh, and calculate, and thus put things on tables for people, rather than saying, "Well, we're going to do this like this, and this is gonna be a huge success, but you won't know why. It's just that I'm talking about. I'm not in a material way criticizing that our arrangements are in this way. I'm just pointing out that the arrangement isn't something that says you're not allowed to do it with some kind of diagnostic and careful procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u150	Madam President. I wondered why the children's issues, for instance, are moved from the Department of Social Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Child Services. Children's task was well performed in the Ministry of Social Affairs during the last term, but since need analysis was not performed, we don't really know why moving it might be better. The fact is, however, that urgent matters are more likely to be in the foreground, and that will be a prospective childhood and family living room, but the academic language may be obscured. I want to ask you why. A senator to see if he will share these concerns with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. All of this together, I'd like to mention that it's part of a certain political rebirth and also a fantasy that, suddenly, we have some special child - care minister. I'm just gonna let myself say it, like there's never been anything for children in Iceland until now only in the last few months. Of course not. Yeah, I'll worry about it. Senator. I'm telling you, with all the ministry and all the orders, that I'd wanted to see a little more work done to argue with it and explain it to us so that it would have been a good thing to do. It's just the very essence of my language here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u152	Madam President. Health Ministry. Why is e.g. Don't you have a special Department of Mental Health? When we consider the seriousness of our mental - health problems, it is clear that the Ministry of Health has not been able to perform the necessary mental - health services. We can see this in child care measurements, and we can also see this in the suicide rates of the past years. So I ask why. A member of the U.S. Department of Health Care Department that changes are not being made? Could it possibly be due to lack of need?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I was naturally taught as a young man that I should be honest and answer honestly when asked. Of course, there are many things in this conversation that, in my opinion, are much more related to the distribution of classes after working together for four years in which things have not worked exactly as planned. Of course, when three classes form a government, there are debates over all kinds of things, we know that. Of course, because the health issues are referred to here specifically, they were a lot of debate between the government classes during the last term, as we all know, and may well argue that the jury suffered greatly. So I think the way the Department of Health ended up had more to do with the storming of the seminary during the season than anything else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I hope that answered the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u154	I'd like to remind the senators to respect their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. One thing that interests me on this matter is the establishment of a special environment, energy, and climate services. It combines various issues to help improve sustainable development and balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. There are various problems that certainly have to do with the battle against the climate, actions against the climate problem. Yet, we do see that projects that are most important to Iceland's low - weighted emissions - the projects, the land transplants, the forest industry, and so forth are being added to the Ministry of Food and Food. I'd like to hear what you're talking about. A senator would think of it, if he would be surprised if he shared it all with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u156	A respectable president. I have no doubt that the government talks, i.e. how it went to divide chairs, even to the point of what the Board of Management looks like, rather than some vision of a better world and all of it. It was just a minister's cable that had to be taken care of. I think that's the biggest reason for all this. Of course, when it comes to the energy and environment, former environmental minister had to be taken from the office he held so that he would not be involved in certain matters, in the opinion of his colleagues. But whatever the reason is that the other one was left behind in the other place, I'm not going to say anything about it. But, of course, there's a lot of things in this, I think, a little random, even though it's put in a really nice costume in this paper.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u157	A respectable president. I don't agree with what. A senator says it's not a very nice costume. I feel that this is a very poor report, and in reality, there are more questions than answers that you will be able to read. Of course, you are wondering if these changes, when it comes to environmental issues, are the main messages that Iceland should address the climate problem by further activation. It may be a small message received from the forwarding party and the Independence Party in this campaign, and it is of interest if the left movement has a little green supply on it. Another concern is this transfer of human rights to the Ministry of Presidency, which is logical, thus reflecting the importance of human rights today. So, then, the other side of it is that during the last term, there has not been enough emphasis on human rights? [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that? During the last term, do you think it may have been a poor time for justice issues to be held at the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u158	A respectable president. I'm going to give the government the fact that although this report is not in particular convincing, beautiful words and beautiful ideologies are in costume, but the argument is missing, as I've traced in these discussions. Yes, I think a combination of the government and this broad line, sometimes called the outer left and the outer right, together in the government, makes it the highest level. Prime Ministers are best qualified to handle human rights. I think that other threads are focused on the fact that they may not have come anywhere else, in the opinion of those on the longest left in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u159	President. At this 1st. Now, I would like to say a few words on the general notes first, but my main focus will be on the amendment of the current Department of Transport and Division and the so-called superintendent... according to the new organization and communications services to the scientific, industrial, and innovation services. Of course, everyone is confronted, as is the case. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson put it so well, that, of course, it was just a minister's desk that had to work out pretty well, no matter what the cost of that operation would be. It seems that when you look and listen better, the talks you've been giving today are that if there's anything more than the first sign, it's just something that you're going to do. I've been looking at the Presidential decision since November 28th, because I'm at the highest level. Prime Minister is now in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u160	I can't wait to hear you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u161	Yeah, I gave it to me. I asked the highest. Prime Minister earlier in what way the decision to transfer communications from the Department of wood to the new Department of Science, Industrial, and Development has taken place. If I understood the best. Justly, some of these decisions have been made before the president's decision is published on November 28th. That's where I see that communications are still under the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs. So I'm kind of asking for a special examination at work. The management board, if it's a good idea. Somehow, I feel that this decision is as random as it was for all of them in the process of transport. I totally understand what you're doing. One prime minister earlier said that it was measured to allow communication to be so strongly related to the development of innovation that it was considered reasonable. But I'm telling you, there's going to be a time when the jury's better living in the new superintendent, which I think is finally becoming programmed to do what is reasonable in that subject, by delivering housing and humanitarian activities on the other hand, and by organizing on the same side of the Ministry. But for some reason, they make the mistake, that I think, to deliver the communications from the Ministry. I think it would be wise to take a special look. Since I was working in this department a while ago and believe that I have a reasonable understanding of its infrastructure and after work on the Environment and Transport Committee during the past term, I think a new department is a very well- form, and if it wasn't for the mistake, I think it's the best thing to do in this department, that I'm moving the radio from the New Intel. Actually, I just want to be specifically examined by the Committee to see if there is any reason to go back with this, because there is not much harm in that. Certainly has the highest. Minister Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, given the so-called Milu-Pursar, but I think the Minister will quite recover, even though this particular group of lawsuits will be brought back to the place where I think he belongs better. The proposal has established, by permission of the president: ▪ Drawn approach to integrating problems in councils also aims to create conditions for new thought and creative solutions. For example, the approach to having energy and natural protection in the same Ministry, a case that at first glances may be different. Have we not had this arrangement for a few hours in the Environment and Resource Ministry that has exactly had these classes, some of which value contrasts, even though they are really very close? I think we've been on this approach a long time ago, but it's not starting to exist right now. The same evidence is given in the matter of tourism, and creative articles, to support each other, of course, in so many other matters. Travel might be justified in the new superintendent. The person standing here was a minister of transportation, when the travel office was founded for the first time in the Department of Transport, 2004 or 2005, reminds me. Then, if I recall correctly, the evidence was that travel services were so well prepared for transportation, whether it were flying, sailing, country roads, or telecommunications, and so on, that the group of paintings was most associated with the language groups that were saved into the Department of Transport at that time. So this is something in one way or another - there will always be an opportunity for one group of subjects to support another. So I don't think there's any particular reason to argue, it's got to be something else. This evidence is usually true among many other advisers. Then I have to allow myself to criticize that there's a terrible sentence here, I think. After describing the integration and support of each class of cases with the other on a long matter, or not too long, it says here, with the permission of a president: ▪ As you can see, these changes in the order of counsel can be considered last but not least to bring down the invisible walls of founded civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors. What the hell does that mean, chief? Prime Minister? This, of course, is some foam that has been beautiful in this context. But what is being said about the success of the past four years under the Supreme Mission? If this is the case, is it necessary for special measures such as these to destroy the invisible walls of civilization and contribute to cooperation, cooperation, and coordination within the board of directors? It's interesting if this is the situation, and if it is, it's done if it's true. But I think it would have had to happen at the beginning of the last terms if it was the highest measure of assessment. Minister with his task force over the Ministers. Finally, because my time is getting shorter, I'm just going to stop at my request to be checked specifically for the better communication issues according to the proposed proposal that they move to the new EU, industrial, and innovation services from the old Department of Transport and the new infrastructure, and that it will be examined with an open mind whether to reverse the decision; for that would not conflict with the President's decision from November 28, 2021. It is evident that this decision was made after that date but for the distribution of the synonym. I'm gonna call it a day and thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u162	Madam President. Thank you. A senator on the tour. There's two things I'd like to ask a question about last year's answer. First, I share the experience with the senator to be an ex - assistant to the minister and a great deal of familiar advice to be added and just about the invisible barrier between recruitment is something that has been said for years and decades to have to be fixed. But I wondered, " Is this part not starting with an end to everything? ' This is a contingency proposal for the switch between schemers. The endpoint is being set up here for something that should be a long process, which should be an analysis of how we solve these walls, how we guarantee the staff rights of the consultants, how we should do the Council of Control to which it needs to be done, which requires a review of the Board of Directors from scratch. Isn't this reverse in the order of action here just a sign that it's not about the needs of the public or of the councils who serve the public, but rather merely the political sanctimoniousness that lies beneath? Then I took a little to myself what the senator said about how strange it was to have these communications torn from other inner areas of society, on some vague reason that telecommunications were the scene, the tools of innovation and the fourth industrial revolution. Could it not be the same reasoning that the seabed, organizational, creative branches, and all sorts of languages are taking place? If that's the reason, why don't we just have one guy in his head?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, all of us know about the Management Board, and there is much to it. It's like here in the past when a police officer's office wouldn't let a car from an adjacent office over a certain line, it was all upset about the speed of driving. They thought they'd be out of the way if they crossed the line between the Acdine and the City Police District. I think it's true that these problems exist, but I'm not in this situation that makes no difference to them. The approach is the same. Of course, a ministry can be baptized at all times. This has sometimes been critical. A few years ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Development, the Minister of Social Affairs, adopted being Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. I remember a fine speech from a former boy. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, since he criticized it and wondered that if the health minister had a particular interest in replacement operations, which has not been the case, if he were to become a health - care minister that would be the elected period. It's just some showdown, it doesn't change how the Board of Management works and whether people can get out of these essentials and approach and so on. I don't see any benefits in this conversation. Doing things in the right order is of utmost importance if the meaning is to achieve real results. But I have doubts that it was at the front of the row rather than that it had to scribble, so it increased by one minister to bring up the cable. - I'll get to the radio in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u164	Madam President. First thing. I'd like to add a little, because it struck me just when we were on an Environmental and Transport Committee called Milu case for discussion that it was the Ministry of Justice. Minister of Sigurður Ingi Jónsson, who had all the expertise and who wrote the story. I think we need to look at this on the Environment and Transport Committee. I'd like to consider, in addition to whether the Senator feels that this is some aspect of the situation, especially because it's strange. Don't you think it's a reason for the management and monitoring committee to consult the environment and transport committee on these issues? Then I had a word here at the highest. The environment, energy and climate minister on the development of the Council the other day, and he reminded me of what was such a primus motor for the Independence Party in opposing the integration of hallmarks during the season 2009◯2013. It was that it was not reasonable for them to think that one of the same ministers would have, as did the Ministry of State. There was now the largest payout for these changes, I suppose, the Department of Health and Social Affairs. They're fine. They're fine. I'd like to ask you what. A senator can enter the fantasy world of lndependence at the table on this point because the size of the little one is being increased, that is not breaking up the units that self-important people on conflict days talk about being too large.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u165	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I am now afraid that some of my friends of the Independence Party have become unduly charged with the expansion of the booth. I think that may be the main reason why everyone here is calm about the cost of a few hundred million for these changes, and there has been no particular opinion of how this is arranged in the scope of the scheme. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson reports that the busiest department is holding. But in this context, I want to recall with regard to the Ministry of Health, which was created in 2009 and led by the rest of the man of Godish Hannesson's vow, that I don't think anyone was paid by the huge Ministry that was formed there, especially the Minister himself at that time. I think this approach, whether it focuses on how Icelandic society is and works or what it is, doesn't make sense for the future, i.e. To create such a giant Ministry. As far as communication goes, it's going to be. A senator merely reviews the question related to it. [[Up front.]] Yes, exactly. I'm just saying that the environmental and transport authorities' views will be sought because, of course, the committee discussed these matters very extensively during the past term in connection with the overall legislation of communications, the communication code called. By the end of our last spring, it naturally sailed into the coast, resulting in the surprise of a lot of people. But I think there's a problem with the need for a management and monitoring committee to seek the opinion of the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u166	Madam President. I must say, I embrace this juicy debate that has taken place here tonight on these ideas of the Government's dissociation at the Iceland Board of Government Council. This is very important. I've felt that tonight's debate is quite practical and very important because we've tried several times since the meeting to answer why these measures are being taken and how much they come to cost. There has really been very few answers. So I'm more informed, I must say, after I have heard these things. With the change, there is a growing number of stewards from 10 to 12. I made comments to this in the past, and I'm sure they were growing from 11 to 12. I realized there have been two Ministers working together under one term, a procrastination and innovation, the entire last term. It seems that during the last term, a ministry minister named the Ministry of Health developed because it was good to have in the department of these exact classes that need to be able to work well together on the contrary. To reduce the number of silos. This refers to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Services, the Health Organization, the issues of the elderly, the desperate and vulnerable groups. That there was an integration and efficiency of strength, knowledge, and expertise. Sadly, though, this did not work out well enough between the Ministers, so it was decided to divide it into two parts. The Ministry of Health and Department of Social Affairs went to the Ministry of Social Affairs with the appropriate cost. When this was done, it was said that only the exchange of this Ministry, which, in fact, had to increase by one government manager, would cost 70 million, and 200 million. K. In addition, the social security issue is being transferred to the Ministry of Presidency. So the price for these changes at the end of December 2018 was estimated - now we have no confirmation of what the real cost was - 270 million just for that move. I remember this clearly, for I was very involved in this discussion. So now this is being done, and then the day comes, one of the Ministers who's going into the Department of prosecuting and innovation was also a minister of the Ministry that was replaced last time. This Ministry is now being recorded, which included two Ministers throughout the last terms, and it is also being replaced. So the Department of Pro-Progress and Development is now going to be the Food Ministry, the former thing called Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministers, and, on the other hand, some things, hopefully we'll get special tickets to try to remember their names. Of course, these vows are not everything, but it is better if we can have them right. Why am I going back to all this? Yes, because I did, at the highest. One prime minister who has been introducing this synonym said that the increase such as this would likely cost 450 million. There's an increase in budgeting from 10 to 12. Then, all the changes that take place throughout the council arrangement, through the entire Council of Government, will be considered, and these are no small changes. In fact, the fact that the Ministry is mostly unchanged is taking out large lawsuits, such as State aid, the State Department is being taken over from the Ministry of Economics and Economics and transferred to the Ministry of Culture and Business. As far as I can see, changes in councils, so quickly looked at, if we don't list all the lawsuits that enter the Ministry of Culture and Business, are at least 14 of them. Then let's go back to 2008. In 2008, a group of legal figures moved from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Presidency. This category of communication cost 200 million - 200 million. We don't know what it really cost, but these were the numbers we were offered here at the Senate Hall. In the talk of the Supreme Court. One prime minister, mentioned earlier this evening, reported that increasing the rate of recruitment cost 450 million. We're here with 14 lawsuits, at least, who are moving between us. We have no idea how much it's gonna cost. Moving 200 of the Council's 700 employees into jobs, finding new offices, finding all sorts of surfaces on the problem that will arise if corpses occur - those who happen to know that it will take about this way. 12◯18 months to recover from this massive system change because preparation is, of course, inadequate. The cost, except for the inconvenience, and other than the damage in public service may be estimated to be high in a billion. Madam President. All to bring such changes is somehow made on a desk after an election struggle at the same time as trying to create a government contract without the highest power. Secretary of finance, not at all. The prime minister, or any other minister, can say in any way what possible cost will come from this or how long this will take, is highly irresponsible, I must say. It's not like we're in the middle of something, Madam President. We're here talking about this being done with so little perspective and a little care at the same time that we're looking at the budgets of the coming year with as much angle as we can see. I see that time is really running away from me, but there are lawsuits inside that I'm very worried about and will discuss better in the second speech and will wish to get back here on the roster as soon as possible. But because it is stated in the synonym that the thought, with all this change, is primarily to increase cooperation and consultation between the case groups, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the matter of children has now been taken out of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which makes it possible for children to become a paediatric minister. The causes of children with disability become a social minister, but the affairs of other children will be with the Children's Minister, or what? We're talking about large groups of languages that are so important that there's some collective agency involved. And because we were working the entire last terms in all kinds of integration, and I'm worried about e.g. This, because I'm doing it at the council concluded that it's very extensive what the Minister of Child Affairs is going to do in his Ministry, but it's really about what we were doing during the last term. At that time, they complained that they were at the highest point. the current social and child - care minister might be possible. to forget a lot of matters that are desperate. This was spoken of, and he was criticized for forgetting that class of subjects. Now's the time. This is 1st of 14 that I'm going to discuss with them in the litigation classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u167	Madam President. I thought there was an interesting passage of some kind. A senator of the experiment with what is sometimes called the superpower Ministry 2009-2013, because this experiment is important and might have been better accomplished, since the superpowers were still only 100 to150 people's workplaces and the right to maintain seawater in their assigned tasks. But I would like to wonder with the senator that at the 139th legislature, when the U.S. Council of Government was adopted, the helpers that the Ministers were allowed to hire in the Ministry were enlarged. [[The president calls.]] They were grown from one up to two to meet the size of counsel and a number of lawsuits. Now we have returned to the small service that was before that. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps it would be appropriate to revise this authority that the Ministers use each time in order to handle two political assistants each time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u168	I'm gonna pray. Once again, a senator will respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u169	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The growth of assistants. I remember that in 2013 the reign of the Government, a lot of fun was made about how many assistants in the Ministry of Presidency back then, and it was laughed in a loud and heartfelt way. But I'm not necessarily sure that the Ministers should have fewer helpers. I'm not necessarily sure of that. I think it's very important that ministers have the best professional knowledge. It may be rather a question of which people will be most familiar with the work. Is this the only one who runs behind, responds to texting, and carries bags, or is this a specialist who can actually support the minister who is not an expert on the issues that the Ministry is about?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u170	Madam President. Compatibility advice and practical use of facilities, expertise, and everything that people would like to achieve together is something that they would not need. The Ministry should be able to cooperate, as people usually do, without formal collapse. But I would like to ask the senator if we were to sail into a better time by this turn that is presented as a way to let the Council work as a team. Let's see, for example. The discussion here in the final case on the program for this, where the secretary of finance was measuring for a bill and when asked difficult questions, he only pointed to another minister and said: Ask him. Then came that minister in the room - not his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u171	Madam President. Will they be united by this change? That may be exactly what I was talking about when I was reviewing the story. How is it that the Ministry of Health had to be split in two when two ministers were discussing these major and important issues? What was the need to split up and create a gap? Why was that not thought to be necessary in the Department of Employment and Development during the last term? Why could those ministers who were there cooperated under one roof? Could it be that creating more and more agencies is simply reducing the possibility of working across phases? I hear all the voices up at the Ministry of Education. The house is making a very clear sound. It's not just that the projects are on the table of ministers, but the entire supporting system is on fire. They don't know how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u172	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga gave the Helgadóttir speech. The talk presented some difficulty. A member of the board's staff who moved between work stations, let's call it, to this review. I was very interested in hearing that there were about 200 of the Council's 700 employees. I can't find this in the case report, but this is, let me make a statement, much more advising the staff of the Board of Directors, than it can be said, in all the introductions and presentations of this case. I want to pray. A senator must go a little deeper into this if possible, where this information is, or if it has been identified, because this must matter when one tries to control the application at least. 14 Secrets between recruitment classes during this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u173	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This figure comes from within the Council of Government, not in public, but from people who are experienced and have worked there for decades. This number has been signed there. Well, I guess I think that's what we're gonna do. The management and monitoring committee that will discuss the matter must take this into consideration and ask about this group of people who will move in on this update.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u174	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Another thing to do. A senator came into this office was so materially that the situation seemed rather bad when it comes to dealing with the Ministry of Education in terms of not knowing, as the next day the officials say, where they should come to work. But just so a joke let go, it seems to be the biggest case in that staff of the Board of Directors. I'd like to ask you a question. A senator of where the possibility of being too advanced in this development of the old Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u175	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I'm sure there's going to be some competition between Ministers on where it's the greatest chaos, but I'm sure it's not necessarily certain that it's in the Ministry of Education, even though it's being handled by the Ministry and distributed to three Ministry of Education, and it's being distributed to another Ministry of Education, it seems to me. As soon as I look at this synonym and I've put this sort of yellow adulation, it seems to me that the Ministry of Culture and Business is the department of the largest mixer. We're talking about the issues of education and civilisation, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development here, but elsewhere it is stated that there is not really any change in the financial and economic services. However, it is stated here that the Ministry of Culture and Business is accepting matters from here. I think it's the winner.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u176	Madam President. Thank you. The senator for a fine talk earlier, the finest review of the matter. Hv. As the discussion progresses, a member of the body may tell you that there will be a number of cases and departments that may be taken into consideration. But I can't quite resist because I know what to do. The senator has been very concerned about cultural matters, and this was a recent ministry. There have been so many references to culture as a sort of a drawer in the Ministry of Education. Then, all of a sudden, we've come to the point where cultural issues are being raised according to this, but the academics are spreading. How does this affect us? Is that something like that? Not only good for cultural matters, so we'll just talk about them, even if they're all in there in the Ministry of Business?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u177	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. That was, for example, what I would like to discuss in my second speech tonight because I am concerned about cultural matters. There is much talk of increasing culture, good if not even in a government contract, and a new Ministry of Culture and Business. There's been a complaint that cultural issues are nuclei, but when I look at the Ministry's major issues, it seems to me that the cultural issues, if you look at them outside of a culture driven by economics, will be up in this Ministry. I think they're gonna get lost. I think they're gonna get lost. There's a lot of talk about filmmaking, promoting filmmaking, that's a great project, that's great. But I'm worried about the culture that we've been so incredibly proud of all our years to let live all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Only to the second in a talk. Just before, this was with the Ministry of Education and the uncertainty that includes employees. You heard clearly from a talk. The senator that he has some information there, and maybe he has more insight than at least I confess I have, directly from inside the Ministry. You wonder, because it's all about increasing efficiency and improvement in flow within the board of directors and others, who can imagine the short - term effect of this. Let us, for the sake of argument, think that the long - term effects may be that there is an increase in efficiency and information flow, and there is a greater ability to work across the departments, departments, and so forth, but what of the short - term effects during this uncertainty? Do not make sure that, e.g. getting answers to business, or getting something past inside the Ministry, will it all be blocked?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u179	Madam President. Yes, there is a danger that everything will be quite blocked. And because we're so lucky to be with people who work in these schemes who have the courage to express themselves - not all of us, of course, but many who have the courage to express ourselves - you can only listen. I was walking across the East Field this week and got an employee inside from the administrative system who described the situation at her place of employment and claimed that it was completely clear with a speech that would be delivered to the Ministry in the next 12 months, that it would be uncertain whether they would be cared for by these presumptuous transfers. It's just a surprise, so everyone's supportive services don't know where she's going, she has no idea. That's more or less in all the problems, except for the possible Presidency Department and the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u180	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra, who gave me the answer because I felt compelled to go up here, for at ease. In his speech, a senator claimed that the transfer of equality to the Ministry of Presidency cost 200 million. I'm just saying, it'd be nice if the equal cases had been given 200 million gifts, but that's not the way it was. They were transferred from the Department of Social Affairs to a new office manager's position. It has to do with it as a Eyjólfur. Ármannsson This is exactly the positive result of this task transport, that employees who handled equality at the Ministry of Social Affairs at the time were transferred to the Ministry of Presidency and prepared for the first time in the history of the Council of Justice, a special office of equal rights. The cost of that was estimated to be 25 million at the time, so I would love to know where it came from. A senator has that number, and how these 200 million have benefited from equality. Then I think it would be interesting for a reason. The management and monitoring committee to have a conversation with those working on equality and to see how this change, as expected by various factors, has been concerned that there would be a significant interference of equality, has been on the case. I thought it would be interesting to know the conclusions of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u181	Madam President. When these conferences were being replaced and brought up by a group of litigators, this was the one that stands in charge of the Council's Board of Directors and Control Committee, which discussed this matter. That committee was given to them a number of visitors and because of the highest number. Prime Minister, then, and present, had given a talk in 1st. that the exchange cost would be 70 million, was asked specifically during the implementation of the committee. However, it was found during a trial that, apart from these 70 million, the cost of bringing equality into the Ministry of Justice would be 200 million more, making this office. This was shown by a hearing given by the Board of Directors and is referred to in this discourse here, as discussed in the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u182	Madam President. I don't know which of these 200 million have disappeared, because on this move a certain number of standard values has been transferred from the Department of Social Affairs and a new office manager. True, an institution, an even-right firm, but it wasn't new funds that went into it, and an equal rights fund was transferred, but it wasn't new funds that went into it. So I think it's important to get an explanation from what happened. A senator, for it would be good if these 200 million could have been used in equal terms. But I'm afraid that this was primarily the one position of the office manager. I urge the committee, I repeat it, to discuss it, because of that. A senator is deeply concerned about the extent of the disorder of transport, the disorder of these transfers in his day, the evolution of the group, and the impact this has had on the level of equality within the system. I predict that the answer to the question will be that it has brought them to the fore. There has been a large revision of the legal case but also a significant improvement for the group as a whole. So changes, even though many may fear them, are not necessarily bad. It often leads to progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u183	Madam President. Thank you very much. The prime minister for later answers, and he agrees that it would be good if the money went into the classes of languages, not just the government itself, and that is exactly what we are discussing here. We are here with a very important group of subjects that could use all the hundreds of millions of people who are going to make arrangements for this move because of their transfer of languages and their gatherings without good authority, without proper perspective, often becomes much more costly. Of course, taking one party of equality and moving it into force is not the same as taking 14,000,520 lawsuits and moving them to the Ministry. This money could be very useful in the lawsuits itself, not management, management, and change.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u184	Madam President. The man standing here was an assistant of the highest order. The Environment Ministers in 2010 or 2011-2013, therefore they enjoyed being present when the resource cases moved into the Environment Ministry and developed the Environment and Resource Ministry. I've always liked the ideas of change and improvement in Iceland's Board of Directors because there's a lot to do there to make this Ministry work better in the interest of the public. Unfortunately, that's not what this is about. This is not a matter of breaking down the silos, as is often said, but of increasing them only, of creating one more silo to install one more minister. If we are really going to break down the silos, we need to set out a much clearer and ambitious plan. Let us consider how the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir dealt with the political changes then made. In the Treaty of that government, more than a page was spent in administrative changes, recruitment, and objective support for the transfer of projects and the unity of recruitment practices. The changes were given throughout the optimal period. Some move was made in the order of the changes that occurred from the original project, but they were at least a plan that people could understand, see, accepted. A Minister's Committee on the Management Board was established that discussed this and the European Commission's legislation was changed in order to achieve this mission moving forward and to enhance the efficiency of employers from the past. None of this is here. This is just a project being made, sometimes just to make them seem to be more interested ministers. Some things work sense, some things just work weird. Of the silos and the documented will of the government, which is shown in the government covenant, and the proposal to break the silos, of course I rejoice. There we find a new note from what we got, for example. reading in reply at the highest. Prime Minister in the inquiry of Þorsteinn, son of Víglundsson, now present. A senator but before the highest. Minister. The inquiry sought answers on how to conduct a equally paid contract on the Board of Directors as a whole. When the council approved a equally paid witness as a law, it wanted the government to set a good example and therefore, in the first session, to be equally paid. The Congress wanted the Council to function even more, and it was not as good as having the amount of pay given by the Ministry for all these different social services, each in its own way, but as unity, because it has the sex pay of the Council of Control, between consultations. It wasn't enough to direct this to the government in the Committee to a greater part of the General and Education Committee, but to legalize it. The law stated that the Council of the Management Board of Iceland should be equally paid as one unit. Then came the answer from the prime minister to ask why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson, and it was, let me say, No, I'm sorry. We're in code, we can't do this, the law says it. But better people live, and I remind them of the question as a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddótttir, U.S.A., said, "Wouldn't it be a good idea to take advantage of this opportunity and put the Iceland Board of Governments to one social security number?" The cost factor and the desperate lack of analysis of these changes have been considered well. I'm not going to put any words into it. But I'd like to mention a very brief group of subjects that are somewhat dear to me, which are the environment. In my opinion, one of the most important changes has been the support of the Environment Ministry of Resources. Ideas were very clear there, but unfortunately, they just hadn't gone far enough. Ideas were about drawing a clear line in the management system between research of natural resources, which should be used by the Environment and Resource Ministry, and the ability to use resources, and the management and usefulness of employment. It's two sides of the same coin that we can't even touch if we're going to keep our balance. V.E.G. the local Environment Minister, Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, wrote in the fall of 2010, with permission of presidents: To me, the research on resources and advice on how to use them is a fundamental factor in the welfare of the nation. Such procedures will mark a major turning point in the history of Iceland's Management Board. Madam President. The strategy proposed here is also a remarkable return in the history of Iceland's Council of Management, where all views affecting energy efficiency have come to one place. It should have been much better here to complete a project that could not be completed 2013 and to take the basic research of other resources and move into the Department of Resources, so that the Ministry of Employment could only be assigned to fish but not assess stock size, assigned, e.g. the rights to use, but not how much each resource can tolerate use. V.E.G. President. This is bad, so I use the mildest word I can think of. So much of the weird spin taken on forestry and land healing. Only seven or eight years have they moved out of the marine road and agricultural department to the Department of Environment and Resources. These are natural protection, climate, environmental issues, which, of course, are in the hands of people who operate in agriculture, of course, but are not and should not be the industry of agricultural production. Landing and foresting are to be tackled, just like other nature protection. We discussed earlier today how strange it was that telecommunications had been split from all other infrastructures in this proposal. It seems as strange to me to see land transplants and forestry disintegrating from all other environmental factors in this transition. And now I'm not even halfway through what I wanted to say. Right to break the bottom of this: A minister said that energy exchange and use of energy are key factors in future climate. However, the facilities and organizational matters have been taken away from the Environment Ministry. [[The president calls.]] We don't have a sound as we do with a picture, Madam President, as we are so trained to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u185	Madam President. It's a pleasure to listen to a talk. Senator. He said that in some places it was obvious that there was a potentially good mind behind, and certainly always a good mind, and it would be wise to put together some things, but in other cases it would be more as if it were the interests of each minister. That's because I have only one Ministry that I like to read about in this council-sense proposal. It says that the main divisions of the Ministry of Culture and Business are - and now I wish they would. A senator listen, these are the main issues of business, including competitive business, government assistance, Icelandic sign language, trade, media, consumers, travel, Icelandic language, collection, art, culture, and tourism. So you're just wondering about this department, which includes the major groups of 12, whether it's to gather the media that most closely connects or possibly interests of the Minister who's supposed to be with this Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u186	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I'd like to give a lot of money for flying on the wall of the yellow ticket meeting, where the mix in the League department was made. Sometimes it is just a matter of controlling the imagination in people's homes. It's completely forgotten. I'm going to meet the senator with a little list myself, a little older, but I'm here with a list of some of the reports under which the transition to the Environment Ministry to become the Environment and Resource Ministry: Change of environmental institutions: Organization and EEA, Controllers, January 2012 Change of environmental institutions: National parks and a peaceful region, Government, January 2012 Musculoskeletal development; Industrial Ministry Report, Management, December 2010. Analysis of recruitment projects and the attitudes of stakeholders, the Ministry of Presidency, April 2011. Marine and agricultural services: Explanation due to evaluation of the potential for further integrating with the implementation of the Ministry's institutions, ParX, January 2010. Long-term policy report for Icelandic crops in accordance with the law onforestation and forestry components, to be published in October 2010. - It was also recommended to transfer the forestry to the Environment Ministry. The transfer of projects from the SlR to the Environment Ministry (UMH), Vel eHf, November 2009. Environment Department: A proposal for founded structure, Capacent, September 2009. You need to analyze things before you do them if you are creating a new board of directors. It's not enough to be on some carpet up in Crimenes at a yellow ticket meeting, where everyone can take the tickets they want and make some combination in a bag minister. That's not how we create our administrations. We have the example, don't even have to go to Denmark or Norway or whatever it is the Ministers are always pointing out. On. They have these reports in the museums of the stewards. They just forget to ask the officials who have gone through this many times before?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u187	Madam President. When you read this, you don't really know if to laugh or cry because I heard the highest. Before long, the prime minister speaks of the wish that the money could go into good litigation. But the energy and money that go on like this - it's like that, of course. A senator spoke of a good way of identifying things, and it is good to have perspective, and it is good to be careful and to do things well so that there is at least some thought. It is also good to be creative, to have a high level of ideas, or to mix different factors, and to see what comes out of it. But at this point, especially in the middle of a pandemic, when we need to think about the money of the state, the money of the public, we need to consider whether we need to be more careful when going on such a mission. It's so ridiculous. When I'm at the highest. One prime minister was asked earlier when the idea arose, or why. Þórunn " Sveinbjarnardóttir was the time for this to happen? " she mentioned that the head of the advance party had once mentioned it in the campaign, and they themselves had even been wondering about something else. But I think it's done, like what's happened. A senator says, at a yellow ticket meeting at an anonymous nesi. It seems, at least, with full respect for such meetings and their importance, that this was not particularly thought of.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u188	Madam President. Yeah, where'd the idea start? Hv. A senator reviews to the highest. The prime minister has previously pointed to the advance party in the campaign campaign and VG in the campaign. I decided that sometime tonight the Minister also mentioned that the idea of bringing energy together with the environmental protection is something that was born in the left administration's time when the Environmental and Resource Ministry was created. But nothing could be far from true. I just want to recollect what I read after that day. Environment Minister, with permission of presidents: To me, the research on resources and advice on how to use them is a fundamental factor in the nation's well-being. You see, it was about a little big interest. This was about the Ministry of Environment and Resources to be the Ministry of the Future Generation of Sustainable Development. What's that word? It's become the Department of Dreams of the Meriad Leagues of the Government. This is the Bots Fortress. The Ministry has cleared up anything that might interfere with all the environment, which could disturb the minister from his basic work. He does not have to think about the organizational matters or housing issues or all of these, which are key factors, for example. The fight against climate change. In Iceland, there is one third of community discharges from traffic. It takes just one thing to fix it. It's a organizational matter. But it is no longer on the basis of the environment. It is now building timbers in the infrastructure that have one of the most gray stories any government might have. I don't think we've ever experienced such a setback in the green business as we did in the formation of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u189	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. He mentioned in his talk about siloin, and then he mentioned that the National Board of Directors for Iceland should have one social security number. I liked to hear from his answers that he spoke of a combination in a bag, but I have my own favorite in a bag, which is the natural cultural and business department, which is the travel department. I'm not going to list all of this, but it's Icelandic Sign Language, Icelandic Language, U.S. government help, consumer business, and travel, which is the largest country's means of employment and is a member of the Ministry of Culture and Business. Who thought of putting them there? I'd like to ask about the silos. My favorite phrase in this paper is about these invisible walls of civilization. It's about how the Council's work is, there's always going to be a set of guys. We can call it silo, we can call it walls and stuff like that. But I think these silos--and it's simple to do so; I know it's done in some places by free choice at work to mix, to get people to meet and talk informally, to communicate. Does he think that these practices that take place in the President's decision and this proposal for the interpretation of a number of schemes are essential, but that these mixed bags are just horny? I think it's more a cry in every department than the rest of those guys really do. I don't know how it got to be in my office. I'd love to hear the highest opinion. Yeah. A senator and his opinion on these silos.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u190	Mr. President. I'm afraid to lose myself in some metaphor in this place, so I'm not going to talk about silos or porridge. [[Tv: What about sauerkraut?]] I'm just gonna talk about how the Board of Directors is 700 people at work, which is divided into 11 - now 12 social security numbers. This means that 12 independent places of the workplace have to have most basic basic services for the operation of their own ways, although the Board of Directors has better able to bring up certain things. It also means, and this is I'm sure that what. A senator is well aware of his time in the Ministry that the ability of employees between social services is much less than he might be. There has long been a law to allow the Ministry to transfer within the Council to another Ministry, but this has been used in very rare cases. Part of the reason could be a pay difference between recruitment practices, since the pay of the Council is not only sex but also limited to the evaluation of the work of each Ministry. And that certainly is a sex friendship, for the feminine tasks are considered less worthy than the manly ones of the Board of Directors. But let's just think if it wasn't 12 social security numbers with 700 employees scattered into small units, it's one 700 Indian workplace where people can work as lawyers in a lawsuit for five years. And then they just get enough waste in the environmental Ministry, and then they can just shy away to something else. Then all they can do is work in culture. Then five years later, it can go somewhere else. It's a system we know in many places. Not necessarily a single social security number, except because experience shows that the system as it does not offer it. [[The president calls.]] It's bad for both the board of directors and the people who work there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u191	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before an answer. With regard to Iceland's Management Board and the only social security number, the National Board of Directors is not a multi-organized government. What we call a government is actually just a minister's meeting, that's a group of ministers. That's what it says in the 17th C.E. The Constitution that a Minister's conference should hold on to new words in law and important matters of government. This was a test for national judgment, an important political issue. I think this is actually going to be because ministers have their power, and then they're changing their administrations, moving them along without being moved into the workplace, because the work of the Management Board's staff is in the office. It would be best to move the office between ministers. Then it's not a transfer. However, you can transfer from one office to another office, which is a transfer. So I believe that wrong methodology is used for this changed order of scheme. For a bag and what we're talking about, to have this on one social security number, I think it's impossible, because it takes a change in the constitution to get this multi-organized control system. I'd love to hear some thoughts. The senator's opinion of whether this combination is in a bag, as he called earlier, harmonizes with his actual view of how to put matters in the board and whether this combination does not just follow the ministers' interests, the poles, the members of the Ministry, who would like to get what, rather than a professional opinion on how to apply the scheme of counsellers. These are much more personal opinions of those who are in control at any given time but who are not based on a professional basis. And I'm sure this is not being examined from the staff's perspective.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u192	Mr. President. Because no deep analysis, or just no diagnosis, seems to have been asked how it would normally be to switch jobs between recruitments, I think that it's just a means that some of the moves are reasonable because others aren't. That's not the way it's supposed to be. The way the Board of Overseers is not supposed to be random. Regarding what the senator said about the trouble of running the Council as a cohesive unit, whether under a single social security number or not, that it would be a problem because the government was not a multi-organized administration, I think there are still very many steps that can be taken to that end. We have an example of the Ministry of Health with two counsellors, or the Ministry of Professional Affairs and Development, where ministers, each with their own case, share the Ministry. But it seems that the political development within the government may not have necessarily allowed this. That's why they got settled. Therefore, there is now a complete winding down of this trend, so ministers no longer need to share a coffee shop, which seems to have failed at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Employment and Development. And although the Ministry is each on its social security number, there are many things you can do together as if they were one and the same, as if this were just one of Iceland's board of directors. In that case, I mention the equally paid contract, which the General required for the entire Ministry as a whole, fully aware of what the Constitution is like - a man would have thought that the specific laws we agreed on were going to go beyond the laws that the government then committed in order not to be involved in this crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u193	President. This is a bit of a good joke, this suggestion. I try to start somewhere, start out where the last speakers ended up; a multi-organized government and its problems with regard to how the Constitution is. This proposal discusses a Ministry that will largely remain unchanged in the order of recruitment at the Iceland Management Board. ▪ For the most part, the wording is very interesting, for what is changing? I have no idea. There's nothing further explained. Is it exactly the same, or is it mostly unchanged? What's going on? This is so weird. But this is the Ministry of Economics and Economics. I've talked about it earlier today on the topic of financial contributions that the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs is not following this constitution of multi-organized government, because the Ministry of Economics and Economics says the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Department of Health: you get so much money. We're the Ministry of finance, and we're in charge of all our finances. Yet, the responsibility of the contractors is on the shoulders of theney. They are responsible for the work and the extracurricular, school, and so forth at the Department of Health and Education and are responsible for the work and, therefore, the legal resources involved. But still the Ministry of finance gets to say, "No, you're just gonna get so much money to run the Land Hospital, please. " Do you need more? No, we don't care about that. You see, we are not a multiorganized ruler. But wait, shouldn't that be so that you don't interfere with other litigators? This is ridiculous, completely ridiculous. It's just that way, like a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson described that this is where he said it's being ripped apart. The big Ministry that's been trying to build up. I think that's because these government groups, government groups, they're simply afraid of a strong professional administration, wanting a weak administration, trying to tear it to the bottom of the ground so that the minister's personal decision is above everything, not professional. Why were changes during the last term if it was so obvious that there were things to do more efficient? Why not start when the minister saw that it needed, what is said here, to bring down the invisible walls of civilization in order to promote cooperation, consultation, and coordination? Why didn't we see it during the last term that ministers came here, ministers who represent the Council of the Commission, to the council, and say, "We'll see here the walls between the walls that make it impossible for us to succeed in building up the proper housing system in Iceland, and we'd like to knock these fucking walls down and do it with your help. No, there was an election that needed not even a word of it, not a word. We get into some sort of surrealism here after the election after two months of conversation about something that no one knows what was, and it's pulled out of the hat. Among other things, the Food Ministry. Where did it come from? It's such an awesome explanation of the Food Ministry, Food Policy, etc, all right, but then the other part of the explanation goes to explain why forestry enters food management. I don't know who eats trees. It's not me. This is ridiculous. I can barely go over this. The only campaign case could be the head of the agency, that was all they said before elections, was a huge campaign case with the forwarding party. All right, you can totally arrange and achieve some practicality there, perhaps not the cost that was dealt with here when the organization determines the environmental issues. It was repeated that during the last term how it all was so complicated, it couldn't be planned because there's always a need for environmental assessment. The complex thing about it was that they simply completely forgot to do environmental assessment when planning matters was being done. This is how you're thinking: Oh, yeah, fuck, we forgot the environment. That's why the natural complaints were complained, the complaints were sent to the NTSB: I'm sorry, the management was supposed to have environmental assessment but forgot, we could, please, fix it. Then it was so organizational because they forgot to do what was supposed to be done. A lot of this kind of amateur stuff going on. The last joke around here, a respectable president, like this, is about the cost. By permission of the President: It is assumed that a final estimate of the costs of structural change will be made at 2nd and after the events 3rd. in the Council on bill budgeting before 2022. This is amazing. It's a eleven-page joke for me on a financial committee. I, of course, would like to suggest that a financial committee be laid down. Why? Because it is really the professional committees, just as I described earlier, who should know how to finance the projects that are being handled by the committees. This is also their role, and they need to be introduced to the cost of their assignments. All committees are to be financial committees, each in his own area. Of course, it's a wonderful proposal for Congress to smell, and I suggest that we just take out the recycling pin, the paperwork, and let it fall there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u194	A respectable president. Perhaps after listening to what I had heard, my questions are becoming meaningless. A senator and his suggestion that we should just put down a legal committee. Maybe that's how you experience it right now. I'll sit down, with a bang. A senator, sweating every day trying to reach out for some $1,100 billion budget to go through between Christmas and New Year. It's hard to get through all of this. It's hard to listen to the reviews people are trying to give about a bill that we're not smart at whether it turns out this way or gay or at least. Somehow it's out and south. This practice, that we are here trying to be careful and to be responsible for financial matters and to cover some package that should then be put forward as a whole - to offer the budgetary committee and to invite a body of Congress on it, because it's supposed to be writing committee opinion on Friday or Saturday, we may get the cost of this on Friday and the committee's opinion of being born on Saturday. I'm asking why. A senator, because he's already tried the budget and he's been sitting there before: Is that how it works?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u195	President. Perhaps I should draw up my Vogona song for this reason, because it is exactly the surrealism that describes how the Vogon, the nightmare of the administration, is so obvious in this matter and how a financial committee and council have had to deal with the government's whims during the last term and clearly at this time. It's obviously so well worked that they don't even know what this cost, and they're going to bring some amount, depending on the events of the 3rd. ... that staysbetweenChristmas and New Year's. There is no time even to get any comments about whether the cost is close or not. I'm freshly reminded of the budget bill today that we're dealing with 60% higher -- no, more natural, this is 60% of the total amount, more than a 100% increase in starting the job. What did the Land Hospital do? How many billion did it cross? 16 billion or something like that have come at an additional cost. And we know it's not over yet. It's really weird to be in such a situation: Yes, we're 16 billion over, that's what we know, and then there's something we don't know, what will be an additional cost. There's nothing in it that's done right, nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u196	A respectable president. There has been mention of yellow tickets and mixed in bags, and there was one service mentioned in the implementation of elections, i.e. ... thewelfare Department of Internal Affairs. They refer to groups of languages that are moving to the Ministry, including the Ministry. Strategic and human activities and organizational matters. It is said that this should improve efficiency and integrate. With President's permission, it says here: The change aims to ensure better coordination with rural society, increase housing stability, and the integration and planning of transport and planning programmes to ensure transport is in the interests of buildings and climate. Today, a news report in the media shows that we could just start building cottages without permission, so we can just go down houses all over kepprets. Is this the integration and efficiency being proclaimed there?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u197	President. I just have no idea, it's no more complicated than that; it's not an idea. We've been complaining all last term about the problem in the housing market, the whole last term. Nothing done, nothing. The report now shows that the objective of public housing policies is to ensure the security of all citizens. - Right. The aim is to ensure proper supply of suitable housing. What did the Covid Government do? She did not start building homes. No. She helped people buy the home that already existed, the price on everything. Why should you believe that it is somehow being done right? I have no idea. They didn't seem to have a plan to do this right in the last place, and according to all your experience, you don't expect to try the same things again and expect the results to be different. There's some definition of insanity according to Albert Einstein or something, which is naturally wrong after all, the Internet lies to us all. But this is really bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his passage. Hv. paritaprevir Guðbrandur Einarsson, who answered before me, came to some of the things I was going to ask, but I would like to have a little more conversation about this. I came to realize that sitting new at the General Assembly would be quite a lesson for me. Work on the budget, the budget, the work at a budget board, and here at the Senate Hall, and other things, of course, there are a lot more complicated and new things for you. But exactly that as it did. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned earlier: It is assumed that a final estimate of the costs of structural change will be made at 2nd and after the events 3rd. in the Council on bill budgeting before 2022. You wonder a little, what position is a man in as a senator? This is, of course, one of the things you have to make a living when these things are done. That must kind of say itself. That's why I might have wanted a little search from a probationary bank. Senator. Is it often that when we're talking about big things--I think this is a very big and important thing, the way we're changing the Council and I think the work we have to be careful, as I went over to my previous speech--is this example of things that men see over and over, that here we might get some key thing that would shape our position on such a big case at some point in the 2nd. and after the events of 3. ... awrong.? Does this mean that there is a cost? Is this just a routine work here at the General?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u199	President. Under government law, all the executives that come to the council will be costing government costs: we are about to make these changes. They are wonderful, though they may cost a little because the benefits they make for the future will be huge. We're making all kinds of cool planning changes and bringing in technology and doing new things, as mentioned here, that we shouldn't be afraid of change, but we can't change the constitution. This is exactly to make our decision, which has the legal authority, the management of public funds, easier to establish which way we are going to go by agreeing to laws on the increased rights of people, which are expected to be at all costs. Are we accepting suggestions that will do something more practical and efficient? That's what this is all about. I have no idea because I don't know what this cost, and I don't know what the profit is going on. Then I cannot weigh whether the cost is long - term. There's just more ministry and silos here, obviously so much problem that they're creating some kind of barriers that I'd expect to pay for longer periods of time. Or is this exactly the most efficient case? I have no idea. First, because I don't know the total cost and second, because I don't know the profit that should be, under government law on public finances, the obligation to inform us about when they make prime remarks at the council. It's never done. The benefits are never shown, the costs at times - but how does this overall affect the financial budget or the long - term cost? Never.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u200	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that answer. Another part mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount was the one mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator earlier. It was this, if I understood the meaning correctly, that this change was actually made, knowingly, to weaken the Ministry, to reduce their efficiency, to increase some kind of Ministerhood, mental decisions, and that the results of this were really just weaker management. I'm not sure that I share the view that this is necessarily the attitude behind it. I think the explanation for this is rather, as I went over, that men were just having a little trouble solving the difference between chairs after the election. I would love to, if I might, direct that inquiry to what. A senator would want to explain this a little bit better, argue it a little more.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u201	President. Happyly. I expect that there will be a certain degree of efficiency in individual language groups, e.g. In terms of infrastructure, organizational matters, etc. That is especially important, and we know that speech. The election was, in effect, a choice. But it's like jumping a pack of cards. You may be a wizard and be able to control only the way the cards jump. You can put all the vanes together, really nice, but the rest is fucked up because you're just focusing on how you get the planning through and you've arranged it. The rest is just ruins. So you throw the cards up in the air and you get the spade, but you have to clean up after the rest. That's not what they're thinking. And there's so clearly a transponder in all these explanations, as is the case with a combination in the bag department. That's what makes the management department sick, when there are small units that can't talk, as have been the case here in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] It produces these invisible walls, which are spoken of as the invisible walls of civilization. They're being made with this. [[The president calls.]] There's a complaint that they're in, that they're the problem, but more agencies and more offices make more such invisible walls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u202	A respectable president. Hv. A senator referred to the surrealism of this synonym. I'd like to state that I don't agree with anything at all. A senator in this regard. Surrealism is a certain art of the subconscious. I don't think so. I believe this is a sadism, which is an conscious review of artistic arts and I believe this is quite dathism rather than surrealism. You know the urinal in modern museums. It's always put in the corner. It's sad. Just to be clear, that's my opinion, and I can be very frank with her late in the evening or night. But what I feel is under there. A senator points out so pleasantly about the Food Ministry - and I take note that the November 28 issue of the president's decision does not mention the Food Ministry. I think it's a marine-surrection and agricultural minister, that his ministry will be Food Ministry, but that forest and forestry and land transplants are not in the environment, energy and climate services, I don't understand. It may well be that people are going to eat the forest or the grass that grows on the land. But I believe these lawsuits show a dadaisman in this, that they are put under the Food Ministry, not by the Department of Environment and Climate at home clearly, we now know the Amazon forests and what they can do for the climate. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator because we are now completely confused and not understanding this: how does he think the public will understand this? It is important that individuals in the community who are less experienced in the administrations and administrations as we are can see the institutions, know society's institutions. I promise you that the public will not know the Ministry and what subjects are subject to the Ministry in the light of these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u203	President. Without further evidence for this, I'm just convinced, I agree with this, it's bullshit. This proposal is just as much a joke anyway. Another example of how well - prepared this suggestion is - irony - that is, irony. That there is the Ministry of University, Industrial and Development, the HIN Ministry. It says, with President's permission, the Department of Science, Industrial, and Neonews... --How about the colleges? Didn't I read it right? So here comes this: a new college, industrial and innovation agency agency's office, not being said to be science and industry? Okay, somebody forgot the lecture here. We now have the highest. Secretary of science, industry, and innovation, but apparently he will be the minister of university, industry, and innovation. There's been a change there and forgot to fix it in every place. This is another example of this, along with the high cost of preparation, the ill - preparedness of the situation, and the ill - manneredness of it all. Ever since those invisible walls of the founded civilization, which are clearly visible now, since they are being tried to change them, there was not something that was being brought to the attention during the last season and starting to prepare and recruit the General Assembly and saying, "This is for us to do great things. No, no, it wasn't like that in my last term. Suddenly, though, they are being tried to make them visible now and that is done by creating more walls. Very clever.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u204	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees that this is a conscious trajectory. But I'd like to use this opportunity to point out that it's very obvious to the top. The prime minister is here fulfilling the obligation of Article 2. legislation on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, No. 115/2011, that's what you're doing. I believe this is an empty law, and I challenge the prime minister of Iceland to promote a reexamination of Iceland's Council of Government, especially 2 g. I believe that the law is empty in that the number and name of the advisors in the existing Presidential decision has been determined. Then it has come and requested the support of the General of the proposed change in population, on points established in the Presidential decision. It's just a twosome. I think it's important to look into this, that we shouldn't be stuck with such a bastard, either in the case or in the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-15-11.u205	President. I expect there will be a further expeditation, for the new Minister's resolutions and so on. It naturally tells us how to prepare for this. These two months of government development clearly did not go into much, at least not preparing for how this should look so that it can be changed right then. I don't know if it's necessary to do this except maybe because the Presidential decision has already arrived. It's all very strange. For me, this plays really hard on this multi-organized administration we're working on, i.e. not multi-organized control. But we could still behave like that. The government could act in such a way that it cooperates so that it operates as if it is a multi-organized government in an effort to destroy these barriers between its advisers. [[The president calls.]] It does not really matter how the Ministry is organized if the government fulfills its obligation to have some cooperation, some coordination. [[The president calls.]] But that's just not the point.
