ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u1	Today, on Tuesday, December 28, Sigþrúður of the Year is taking Ármann place at the General Assembly as a deputy to the son of Bjarni Benediktsson, and Árnadóttir Kolbröndotttir takes up his seat as a backup for Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u2	A letter from the health secretary has been sent to ask for every request in order to provide a written answer to a covering query. 146, of the wealth of the elderly, of the son of Einarsson, and of the threshing floor. 108, about the number of hospitalisations for elective surgery, from Kolbrún Colb Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. A letter has also been received from a social and workforcer requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 106, waiting hours for the State Analysis and Advisory, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Island. There have been letters received from foreign and development co-worker to provide a written answer to a covering application. 134, on the transport of weapons, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u3	A respectable president. The first fiscal worm of the government is frustration. It does not reflect the height of a debate about the application of climates, for example. no definitive action on the income side to facilitate energy exchange. We can't see an injection in the children's relief system. There the government makes as little as it can get away with within the market framework. There is no way to address the weaknesses in the underlying supply of a treasure. Nothing is done to reduce inequities. The priorities in social security are particularly reprehensible. It is not specifically supported by the most lucrative groups but primarily by those who earn more money and mostly by men. It's a bad tape and I hope the government's doing better next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u4	A respectable president. These laws are like the laws of the law, not enough to cope with the challenges that the Icelandic community is facing. Just like what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson came in, but this is not enough to deal with the climate crisis. This is not enough to meet the poor ideals of disability, and this is not enough to earn the money of the state to build up the well - being society we want here. That, of course, is a great disappointment. The Porta Parliamentary Party and the smaller parts are here with a motion of righting the injustice that this tapeworm involves against the unscrupulous market of microorganism. We urge all members of the council to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u5	Madam President. I would like at the beginning of this vote to have a general statement on the behalf of the Central Party's Congress that the Council will generally vote against all the pay and tax promotions presented in this bill with the only exception that we will support the change in terms of remuneration in the light of the high cumulative disregard of the agreement that is on the subject of the church. But in other respects, we vote against all the remunerations and all the tax increases listed here. And because I've got a few seconds, I'd like to say that I'm very disappointed in the way a problem has to do with the people who appear to be involved in a contact car, and I hope they represent the greater part of it at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee will improve between the 2nd and 3rd districts.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u6	A respectable president. What we're about to agree with right now will lead to disappointment because there is one group that's always left behind. The government has already found its breadth of banks - in the elderly. That's the only group that hasn't had a dollar for Covid, not one dollar. The worst-cased seniors always stay behind. The question is why in the face of this government, when always leaving someone behind, there is such a tremendous financial difference. And there's the other one, the senior holiday goal. Yeah, great, it's raising $200,000. What about micro-germs? No, it's still standing, at 109,000 bucks. which should be 240,000 k. if you were right about today. There's always discrimination, and there's another difference between this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u7	President. Somehow, everything in the same book is learned from the plans of the fine government now in power. It's equilibrium, it's chaos, there's stillness in this corrosion like many other things. I'd especially like to draw attention to the fact that this alliance is particularly against the proposals and tips of the Ministry's staff on the effort everybody wins. The minority here is suggesting not to extend it. This is a budget of 7.5 billion, which would be better spent for other things. There's been a warning of an increase in social expansion. At the same time, the government throws oil on that fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u8	Madam President. I'm not going to review all the fine changes proposed in this income policy, but I'm not going to focus on one particular source of a very detailed work done during the last term and aim to reevaluate the income tax system so that there were three-step tax systems, an unconvinced operation in the community by making the tax system more righteous and equal. Now, the final node is tied in to the legal adjustment proposed to indicate that there will be an update of tax incoherent and step boundaries based on the development of an index of consumer prices plus 1% annual production growth. This is an enormously important system change to prevent real taxes, since we have seen that trend in history, usually because tax limits and levels have not followed the same laws, tax taxes have actually increased. Now the end of this development is tied by a reasonable change well planned and at the same time ensures the automatic fluctuation of the income tax system. And because here we go. Senators on the equation, this is one of the most important equations involved in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u9	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the members of the board for what it is. The Economic and Business Committee is very much involved in very good cooperation and job well done. Similarly, I would like to mention the campaign All work that I believe is very important, and I appreciate it. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the words of Skúli Eggert Þórðarson, a state accountant who has spoken about the tremendous success of the campaign in the fight against black employment. When this is said to cost us more than 7 billion, I'd like to remind you that we're only looking at one end, the cost team, but not what the campaign will bring, which, of course, it does in the form of a product sold and paying taxes, and it comes in the box as a tax or other income tax. [[The president calls.]] I'd also like to mention that I'm glad that parishes were raised because we know that religions in the country have been in dire need.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u10	Madam President. V.E.G. The prime minister has already considered the important changes that return to the criteria for development and step - by - step taxation. I'm just gonna go under it and don't spend any more words in it. Of course, this income policy is set in line for the coming year, supporting the proposed material for the budget. I'd like to mention some important things. It is an increase in children's improvements, an increase in the pressures on basic paediatric inadequacy and the changes a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests to reduce the disability rate in the disability system. That's extremely important, including. so that there will not be loss of a crown. [[The president calls.]] So here are many practical and important suggestions for discussing that I will support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u11	A respectable president. I just wanted to say a few words about the new criteria for the development of tax-and-depth boundaries. V.E.G. The prime minister came up here and spoke of this as a big step toward equalizing it. Of course, I agree that wanting to deal with the physical tax system involves efforts to increase the equation, but the way we are going here is far more economic. Of course, if the goal was specifically to increase the equation, it would be compared to a remuneration number rather than production. We're talking about growth in production, not production, let's keep that in mind. Then we're talking about the campaign Everybody wins. The Ministry of Economics points out that there is no diagnostic of what it does to counteract black employment and promote better tax returns. [[The president calls.]] Now more than a year has passed since this campaign began - how is it that no such analysis has been performed that could then be based on our discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u12	President. I just want to come up where it's cool. The head of the Economic and Business Committee speaks of the church's plight and the need for religion, pointing to the plight of the least - to - be groups in the community. Then I'm talking about the disability and verbal debates that are here repeatedly saying that we should raise the microchip from the reduced poverty trap and allow them to move on into a job market. But then we refuse to go up their vacation markets to the level of other community groups, such as senior citizens. This is reverse. This doesn't make any sense. I'm sorry about the sleigh, Mr. President. I propose that we agree that the poor will receive the same perks and can have the same flexibility in the labour market as the rest of the community. Otherwise, there's nothing to mean what we're saying here. By not wanting to raise it, we are clearly saying that disability is not meant to be able to walk to the workforce. What do we want to do here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u13	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and say how happy I am with this little baloney. I believe that he is, in many ways, progressive, in view of the circumstances that we have to eat and what we can do at this point. All the efforts have, of course, been a lot more critical than having done a very detailed diagnostic work on what we have in our hands now, I think we're doing the right thing and we're going into things we can see to do as well. It's not just a bill, we're not just paying fees, we're just going to have to think this further, so I think it's just a very good bill and we're going to support the suggestions it presents.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u14	President. I was just wondering how much more of the argument about the extension of the campaign everybody wins. It seems to me that the conclusion of the greater part is that it is right to stop taking taxes from the nonrequired sectors of taxes. I must admit that this strange message is being sent to the people of the land; if they are doing enough to avoid paying taxes, they simply stopped paying taxes. As mentioned earlier, I think financial and economic recommendations should be made and resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u15	Madam President. We vote here on our proposal in the memory of the less - income market for microestate income to follow the job market of older people at the end of the year, up to 200,000 dollars. This is no revolution in itself. This is not a particularly costly proposal, especially in view of other changes that have taken place in the council during this alliance. By doing this, we would be sending a message that a poor person will not be left behind. This would be the first step in the revision spoken of as standing before us. I think this would be extremely important, and I hope that we can only forget which classes we came from, which are in more parts and which are in the smaller parts, and put some Šre-politian to the side and unite on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u16	President. It's a simple matter of justice. We are here suggesting that the poor get income in line with what the elderly may have, that the poor get to earn on their own without losing their income in return, an enormous amount of money in return. This should be the green tablet I'm looking at. It should not be a matter of simple justice. It's not an excuse, and it's not always an explanation to say that the poor may get some justice tomorrow when the government finally prospers in an overall review of this system. We've had to hear that excuse for way too long. It would be a very simple legal matter for this government to accept this, but it's probably too much to swallow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u17	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a big deal because if we go back ten years in time, this number's put on, like, 109,000 bucks. What does this mean in English? This means that the workforce has been systematically reassigned. Today, this would be 240,550,000. if it was given correctly and a large group would still be working. But when the gain is no one to win, not any, but the loss of the desperate ceases to work. That's what the government does with the left hand. But what does it do with the right? She says: We need to let the cripples work. But she does not want to raise the money, does not want the poor to benefit from their work. No, you lose your job. Nobody works like that. We wouldn't work here if we lost our jobs here. - I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u18	Madam President. You'd think of those votes here that nothing was being done for thesis. That's not true. They were raising their benefits by 1% and it matters. At the vote we're going to here, there's a down-to-date decrease. It's action that will benefit everyone. Let's not mention the Christmas bonus that we voted for Christmas and that's after the bill. There are changes that benefit a great many in this system. The above adjustment will only benefit those who are already the best put into the system. I agree that the system needs to be handled and reviewed, so it's an incentive for a job, but it needs to be done in a complete way so that changes in one place do not occur to others and I have full faith that they will be gone immediately next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u19	A respectable president. I support this change, and I support all changes for the disability and older citizens who benefit them. But these are chicken steps. It's taking a hen step, and if we keep up with this chicken pace for disability and older people, we can thank you for having done something intelligent in a thousand years. We've got to board sleeves and do something decent. We were making a suggestion just now to do something decent. Denial of people to work, e.g. He returns nothing, and is a loss for all; for those who are denied to work, and also for the treasure of the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u20	President. 836 were infected yesterday. We're just about to start dealing with this crisis. What we need to do is that we will need to maintain our government. This is inevitable. It requires difficult decisions, decisions to reduce the indiscretions, decisions that will have a negative effect on some but must be taken if the State is to go through these periods without building debt and for a longer period reduce growth capacity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A financial and business committee or part of it for providing this change in terms of application reimbursement. As I've come on in the past, I've been sitting on a financial and business committee when we were posting a budget bill last time and giving them the meaning that we were permanently correcting this, but it wasn't that temporary rule that it ended up. So I'm celebrating it and vote with the proposal, but at the same time, I'm pointing it to the highest level. Minister that we reexamine the application fees because of course we're not working on this here at every assembly and changing the subject. It's only natural to have the application fees legalized so that we can follow the natural development of parishes each year in financial terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u22	Madam President. By permission of the president, I would like to quote something that was said to the finance of 1944: ◯ I don't want to bend over the more share that kills hospitals but builds churches, so I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u23	Madam President. As we have noted today, this is a difficult epidemic, and difficult decisions need to be made. I'm surprised that this is the time when we're going to start building churches of all things when there are reports of a pandemic suicide epidemic, and we're not going to put more money into subsidies of a psychological service of 150 million, but we're going to do this that I just think it's ridiculous in view of the fact that many of my friends are only falling apart. That's why I can't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u24	A respectable president. This is a delay in the hostship of the so - called superintendent, an important source of income for rural society, about two years. We already know that the local situation is not good, and I don't think this postponement will be of benefit. That's why we're going to vote against this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u25	Madam President. We are here making considerable changes in a approach to public financial laws. I'd like to name it as a dog. The head of the Economic and Business Committee mentioned earlier in the discussion, in the context of all the campaigns, that it must be possible to watch both sides of the coin, as it were; that for us senators come into the laws on public financial capitalism, which will make it easier for us to grasp the secondary effects of legislation so that we can see what income is gained by raising the deposit markets of older citizens or microorganists. In view of the fact that we are initiating these changes now, which are in line with a question of payment, I just want to point out that we have to go to work to either change public finance laws or set independent rules that we senators see the overall picture of the effects of legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u26	President. It must remember about 6 billion in the state's funds, especially in those days, and if any are available and more, it is the banks that have profited about tens of billions of dollars this year, as if every year since the social security after a collapse, as well as spending tens of billions of dollars on interest to their investors each year in the middle of a pandemic and a global crisis. It cannot be too much for an enterprise to pay taxes at 0.37%. Let them show some community responsibility. If the banks rise in interest of many, which seems to be fear - inspiring, it will not be due to a bank tax that does not reach 0.4%. The decrease in bank tax was not effective in reducing growth, which had other factors. The banks will increase interest if they can, but bank taxes will not change anything there. Companies with tens of millions of profits have no reason to raise the charge for their customers, and following it is our and our checker. Let us demand community responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u27	President. I suggest that the whole campaign all work for the next year, not just part of the year, but for the next year. Clearly, in the next year, inflation will become considerable, so many families will be forced to pack sails and reduce expenses. Thus, many projects, often necessary, are likely to fall apart. Thus, there may be no treatment for industrialists who are abstinent. This year's reimbursement would be a source of encouragement to homes that would even be felt, as well as to prevent people from being tempted to buy black jobs to save themselves expenses. The forwarding of work would result in good work on both traders and individuals in a time that is predictable to many. Thus, it is necessary to ensure that the year will have the resources to stand out while we are growing out of the crisis, with a total number of infections being passed yesterday and conditions being in fact no different from those when the choice was made. Thus all will work, as they have been laid up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u28	Madam President. As a member of the Central Party, we agree with the viewpoints presented in every speech. paritaprevir The Ásthildur of Lóa Þórsdóttir just before here. We will support this change proposal to extend the entire work programme to the end of 2022. Although an intermediate has been caught in the work of the Economic and Business Committee, in the context of this extension, we feel that it had been done better, and that many parts of it had been wise because of extending the whole project throughout the year 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u29	A respectable president. If I read this vote correctly, we're talking about extension of the campaign all the employees involved in the Ministry's work that is floundering, no need for this sector, and very costly. This is determined, however, because, understandablely, the campaign is popular and is considered to work against tax fraud, although we have no analysis to support the claims, which, of course, are remarkable. We're in Pirates sitting by. We do not vote for this decision, and we put a question mark on this priorities. The construction of people's homes and construction projects can cost 7 billion people, but we can't afford nearly a billion people to deal with a major mental illness in Iceland. It's just a very amazing priorities, a respectable president. 7 billion here, but 150 million to meet tremendous challenges when it comes to mental problems. [[The president calls.]] It's a very amazing priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u30	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up to give special support to this article. This is an inexpensive and more convenient way to shop with used items, such as. has been made in the Children's Clone and in other places. Although this may not be a big problem, it is important to have an environment that makes it easier for people to sell used items and that we are not always buying new things but just trying to buy more. This will make it cheaper to buy used things and simpler to sell them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u31	A respectable president. The change in this article is supported by a group of people. I've got a bill here to set it up from what? paritaprevir The rest of the people Jakob Fritman Magnússon and Floki of these changes, the loss of 100% of worth tax on airships and ships. It is obvious that the government has seen light in our government position and has decided to record it on the bill and agree that this needs to be part of it, that it is not just a moving vehicle on land, but both in the air and in the sea that are exposed to electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to be glad that we're securing public fees and that tax frauds are not being made. But I'm going to have to put up some specific speculations about this warrant that we're going to run under the governor of state tax. I reiterate that we have always a moderate guide when it comes to staging the individual property or legalizing in this way and without the presence of the police. If not, I'll give my vote to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-28-18.u33	Mr. President. This is a mixture of two law columns just before the New Year's Eve so that the votes will be successful. I don't see how it's justified in putting the Allied in the position of taking a shit on a law to keep population elections. We've seen in the past few weeks and months what about elections can be of great importance to people's belief in them and democracy itself and the results they give us. If the events of the past month have taught them something, it is that we already have too much access to elections and agreed to vote. But now I'm just wondering about Aldulis's tactics. I don't understand why this bill isn't already set up on how they're going to vote. Iceland deserves a nice vote, but not a win-win in the middle of the year, in the middle of the race, in payment of a budget just before New Year's Eve.
