ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u1	Mr. President. Friday will be a historic day in which a major step will be taken to ensure the security and future of earth's inhabitants. That day, the newest international treaty, a ban on nuclear weapons, will become a solemn ceremony in New York City. I have previously discussed this agreement from this platform. His reaction is that in 2016, a large number of no nuclear powers decided to try a new approach in the battle against these terrible weapons. Older disarmament agreements assumed that the nuclear powers would eventually reduce their armory and work to their extinction, but neither walked nor drove. On the contrary, the independent state and military alliance of NATO have had nuclear weapons as a cornerstone in their military policy. Sadly, some important contracts, which have been like a guard on the road to nuclear disarmament, have not been followed, and they have even been dismissed, which makes this contract even more important. In accordance with United Nations regulations, this new covenant gains international law when 100 days have passed since the 50th State validates it. The countries that have already validated the contract are 51 but 86 countries have taken the first step and signed the treaty and they will only increase. This is the covenant that will eliminate nuclear weapons in the world, and it will be remembered in the future as a momentous event. But so far, the nuclear powers and their opposing states are under attack. Iceland thus followed other NATO countries and slided the treaty. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to have the guts to stand on our own in these matters, and I remind them of my concierge proposal that Iceland will sign and validate the Treaty against nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u2	President. For what? The welfare committee I sit in is now being discussed with a top-level bill. Healthcare Minister for changes to the control laws. Linked to this, the person here expressed himself in a talk and in a publication on his position on the matter of compulsory vaccination, found in the current bill. To eliminate any doubt about my position on vaccination, I would like to state that I am a candidate for vaccination and I look forward to taking my dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and that most people should do the same. On the other hand, my conclusive criticism has shifted to the idea that people in general are related to vaccination, the idea that the State's authority could be responsible for having a vaccine in order to be vaccinated. The pressure to force healthy persons to accept medicine and medical treatment is causing them to be forced by force. First of all, such an arrangement would be a clear violation of the individual's privacy, a violation of those who have the right to refuse medical treatment, and a failure to pass a constitution. So, of course, the idea violates our baseline Pirata, and the same is true of curfew. The aim of such a course must be that most people would be vaccinated against the virus. However, it is as well as with Covid's current challenges as with Þórólfur Guðnason, that it is more successful to educate than to force an increase in the risk of resistance and polarisation, which works against the objective. It is far more expedient in all places to seek the informed consent of the citizens by means of an educational and open conversation when it comes to trying to convince a lot of people to do the same thing for the sake of public good, to give me credit to a respected president, a lazy politics to rely on harsh legalization in the express purpose of wanting to contribute to the health of a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u3	Mr. President. One of the government's actions for crown virus was adopted at the General Assembly in May last year in the form of a special scholarship to the sports and leisure activities of children who come from humble homes. Unemployed employment reaches a historical peak, and in certain areas, 1 in 4 people without a job. In the homes of jobseekers, children live, and the government is doing all they can to protect them and possibly their family because of their contributions. The plan was to make sure that all children regardless of the economy could pursue sports and other leisure activities in the past summer. At the beginning of the autumn Summit, we discussed the situation in Southnes, and we received answers that there was little evidence that applications for this strength were being made. That's why they said it was strange. In today's hour, we have a story on the matter. It shows the shocking fact that these measures seem to have not worked at all. Only 9% of poor children have applied for this strength. The reason seems to be a complete failure to remove these measures from the government. You see, it's that way. The social and child - care minister seems to have managed to make the complicated stage so high that the children living in poverty cannot benefit from this. The method of making poor people pay training and hobbies from their own pockets and then having to apply for reimbursement is simply not something that poor people, who have to choose how to get their children to bed without their being starving, can do. This, Mr. President, is an exposé of government ignorance in the situation of many families living in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u4	A respectable president. She may be a little different from the speech I'm going to conduct here under the council. Yes, we all know that we have been encouraging one another and have tried to stand with one another. Our heart beats to the rhythm of something that's wrong. When our nation must join together, we have done so, and we have shown that we have a heart of gold. Now a community center takes up a collection campaign for a young man who was losing his family by accident. I'm going to encourage all of you and just all of us to show how big our heart is and how much gold there is. Let's help him, let's put his arms around him. He lost his wife and his baby in tragic accidents. I'm just moved to come up here and use this highest platform in the country to encourage all of us to put our arms around this young man and show what we're made of, that we have a heart of gold.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u5	Mr. President. The government is not supposed to run a bank, the state is not supposed to have a bank operation. It's one of those slow men you've heard from this platform recently in discussions about the government's plans for selling a share in Iceland Bank. There is a little talk, as is the case with Newton's fourth law. In this connection, I'd like to step aside a little from the Bank of Lands. This bank has worked here as such almost uninterrupted since 1885. He made it through a global crisis and two world wars. He survived her failures, years of famine, volcanic eruptions, and other natural disasters, and many financial failures. It survived the collapse of the Union and other major international corporations, which were a pillar of employment, and so on. There was only one thing that Iceland's Landsbank couldn't tolerate, that was to be owned by Icelandic workers. The rest of the two private banks also collapsed, and the population landed in intensive care. We know this and that story, and we need to keep in mind forever. So it's not a simple thing, this fourth law of Newton that the state should not possess and run banks, that banks are always the best in business and owned by private people. Of course, private workers may be well - equipped to carry out all kinds of business and bank functions. However, such popular talk is too important for the bank to be left alone only by those who maneuver their business to achieve their own profits.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u6	Mr. President. Happily, good news is often spread. Yesterday, I made up the publicity company of GEMMAQ, who was doing it well in New York City, choosing one of the best or most promising innovation companies in that city. There has now been reports of another such company, Lake Power, as it is called, founded in 2015. It was selected from a group of 4,200 enterprises and was included among 38 companies who were funded by a European fund, which is used to support projects in innovation, create and shape new markets, create jobs, grow and new jobs. This company has developed a new solution to monitor the state of high-voltage line. This is a topic in particular to remind us once more of the value of innovation, the value of the European cohesion, which this company is particularly benefiting from, and that it is important that the government, the government, support and good-looking support of innovation in the country. We've been improving. To be even more effective, we need to improve. We see in these companies and many others that we have the full business, and these companies can make a great deal of money for an Icelandic community. This sect has been strongly stressed by restoration and will continue to do so because it is our future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to take a moment to think that now it is the third day that has been unable to land on both sides of the Mountain, sailing on both sides, and Óloffjörður wall. The building is actually closed to drivers, and it is still not clear when the roads can be opened. Of course, it is totally unacceptable in 2021. It has been discussed many times and many times with the need for a new tunnel, either the Grinch's side or the River, now or the river of the Mulla tunnel. But I think it's too long to wait for it to become a reality but to think outside the box and examine other solutions. There are, for example. One to two locations along the Mula, which could be placed in a wall of some sort or something that could possibly replace it. This could make the road even less impossible than it is today. I think it's very important, especially in the light of the news we hear today; avalanches are falling, the skils are gone, or at least Let's go. On this occasion, I would also like to remind you that the next tunnel in the East has been chosen to make the next tunnel, a Futurah tunnel, but with the conditions in which people live, I think it is important that we consider whether it is possible to speed it down even further, for example. by having an invitation this year. They're scheduled next year, but I don't think there's ever any need to push and start.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u8	A respectable president. I'm like a whisk. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir thought of the inhabitants of the Mountainland in the last few days and agrees with her words about transport. Otherwise, I will draw attention to two tasks of enormous importance for the development of Icelandic society and the access of students of foreign origin to the national education and opportunities. The project, on the other hand, is standard for students of a foreign background, and the project is an opportunity for all: A great school job in a Fell district. The station room is a tool that has long been called by the school system to map the student's academic status at different times in school. A control group has worked on a Swedish model and will follow through through presentation, guidance, and continued development. The assessment can be used for elementary schools and high schools and is being developed for high school. The project aims to respond as soon as possible to new students' needs, to build on their strengths, and to improve learning ability through progressive early intervention in school in a new country. It is available for individuals and the whole school community and is now available in 40 languages on the National Institute of Science. The other project is a three - year - old cooperation project to promote Icelandic skills and to strengthen the self - image of children in the Furland area. These projects show how countries and rural groups can cooperate in school, even though the responsibility for the project is divided between administrative points. The projects will be useful to every school in the country. Strong leadership in child education and affairs is important in bringing about such development projects. I like this job very much. This kind of thing makes me jerky when I get the chance to work with these things in school.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u9	Mr. President. We are regularly reminded of the urgency of our times. For years, we have collected a special fee, an upper flood tax, that long went well into a treasure called a treasure. According to his last year's donation, before the Ministry of finance confiscated him, he had a net of some 16 billion dollars. This was at the end of 2016. Each year, a total of 2 billion in surfaces plus interest fees, which were then some 600 to700 million. K. every year, i.e., i. e. 3 billion a year that got into this fund. I say this because a year ago, when a flood struck Flats, the agent of this fund, Halldór Halldórsson, was interviewed for a collection of about 23 billion dollars in this treasure. That was January 2020. That same month, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Transport and rural Ministers to say that there are 15 billion in the fund, i.e. of this legal body. That's an eight billion mark, Mr. President. I call attention to this because we are now fully prepared to join Sundjörður, both in building up and in overfishing, and this is essential because the government of the day said she was going to provide an additional 1.6 billion in the floodwaters. But the government is not doing such a thing, Mr. President. This money is available, it is streaming into the state funds each year to 2.5 ◯3 billion. What needs to be done is to find out how much money is available in the state fund, which is earmarked to this category, and then take over and deal with, both in Seysterism, in Flatland, and in other places, where the flood and terror are growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u10	A respectable president. In the United States, we have been blessed with a very visible expansion of the Neophases in recent times, and there are many things. On the other hand, looking west through the ocean or through Europe, the rise of the newborn is clearly seen. The problem is that we have become so accustomed to living in liberal democracies in this area, here and in our neighboring countries, that somehow we do not think that there may be some evil like those committed in the last century and that the most famous and notorious thing can be done again. This can happen, a respectable president, if we forget it's possible. Today, as president of the United States of the United States, the newest and dupe Donald Trump. What a cause for joy that is! There is no need to be especially supportive of his opponent. Considering the way he came to power, one thing is quite obvious, and there is a lack of respect for facts, for the truth, that there is a difference between what is true and what is false. The facts are not attitudes. Opinions are not logical in nature. If we are to protect ourselves against the rise of the newborn, short - term or longer, we must have in mind the democratic values based on open, democratic, and enlightened discussion. We must not forget its importance, and we must not act as it does. When we are adults, we should be able to distinguish between facts and nonsense. The situation is that in the so - called Western world, this is not so clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u11	President. The experiment of various parties, including Councilmen, to compare the busiest revolution to the attack on the U.S. Assembly Hall, is a classic trajectory. What is truly common is that protests occurred. But why were the protests? In the agricultural revolution, it was a collapse of the financial system and the ideologies of the financial system itself. It collapsed, with resulting harmful results. In the case of the attack on the U.S. House of Congress, this was a charge of election fraud from the highest government on earth, the President of the United States, which said to be stealing democracy. Of course, such accusations are to be handled. This is in response to the collapse of financial systems and ideologies of self - rule and accusations of stealing democracy. But if such accusations are based on lies, we'll be in trouble. Are the protests understandable? Yes, I would like to see protests if it really was stealing democracy. Of course. Were some of the cases justified? Of course not, but they are understandable. We see here the problem, the collapse of political ideologies, it's a lie of rulers, it's a misdirection that people don't look at the reasons of the protests, an illusion to avoid their own responsibility. When rulers lie to people and they take action, the lie is to blame, not the response of Protestants.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss this agreement by the United Nations on statelessness, followed by my inquiry to the highest level. Minister of Justice she answered yesterday. Iceland has not signed, validated, or become a member of the United Nations Convention on Unauthority, nor has it updated a treaties contract. The contracts are from 1954, the update from 1961. The answer by the secretary of justice to me shows that things have gone up in 2014 when the United Nations Refugee Organization of Refugees began a global campaign to destroy the nation's statelessness, 6◯7 years ago, Iceland, which is taking a closer look at this. In 2016 the Icelandic government also agreed to validate the agreements of the last total United Nations organization on the state of human rights here on earth. In June 2019, the Ministry of Justice sent a memo to the State Department asking that the contracts be validated. On September 29, the U.S. government approved a memo from the minister of Foreign Affairs, which suggested that Iceland become a party to the contracts. There was a validation process at the start of the last year, but according to State Department sources it has been delayed for Covid-19 which must be a very special reason not to sign contracts. Iceland is going to be a formal party for these contracts at the beginning of the year. Mr. President. It is good that things began to move during this terms, but the government has taken one year and seven months to validate its agreements. These contracts are important to people's lives and to where they can live, live, and work. Man e.g. Someone here after a family who came here from Senegal seven years ago and who's been living and working here, by the couples Diouf Ndiaye and Mahe Diouf, who have in the seven years they've been trying repeatedly to obtain and seek international protection? They have two daughters, Marta, six years old, and María, three years old, who were both born here on earth. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. What are they waiting for? Since negotiations need to be made, children like Marta and María do not have to live and live with this uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u13	A respectable president. It was not later a good time for Covid to be taken for a special discussion on the II Parliament. After the election began after Christmas break, the issues of Covid have been discussed on different sides of the night. welfare committee, including it is until the bill is discussed for changes in disease prevention laws and it has also been specifically considered for the discussion of vaccination issues. I've had the privilege of sitting in the middle of something lately. A committee and I have been able to participate in discussions about these matters on the committee. More than a week ago, we had visitors at the Committee meeting to discuss the development of vaccinations, and all cases are subject to them. I requested information from the Department of Health, which sent visitors to the Committee, not very detailed or accurate information, but something that I would have called the basics, if that were to be said, a respectable president, information about when certain vaccines would have been attacked. In fact, they presented it to the Ministry notes, an excellent memo, and went over it. This suggests that the vaccine has not been bought until December, from all other people than AstraZeneca, I think. I requested information about the purchase of vaccines at certain dates it was given. I haven't yet received that information, a respectable president, after any remaining items through the committee. I would like to emphasize that in these matters all information will be given to members of the Parliament who would like it. In fact, I have emphasized that the Ministry is doing better and that all information is subject to the implementation of Covid issues, vaccinations and disinfectants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u14	V.E.G. President. Iceland has made a commitment not to buy a vaccine outside the EU contract. According to a health - care professional, some 30,000 people have been vaccinated against the crown virus by the end of March. He said that Iceland committed itself to buying vaccines according to EU contracts, so the contract cannot be bought. Some 30,000 people have been vaccinated at the end of March and the next pre-vaccination priority group is 70 years of age and older. This includes some 34,000 people, so the overall population cannot be vaccinated based on this information. The Council makes a deal with the European Medicines Agency. According to them, Iceland is committed to buying vaccines according to these agreements. It is also obliged not to buy vaccines from their contracts. There is no work to buy a vaccine from the contract, according to a DC surgeon. V.E.G. President. I'm asking you, what kind of deal is this? This is very burdensome in this end. Then you read and hear in the news that Germany, who are in the United States, is negotiating another form of vaccine as well. Then I ask, " Why is it that we cannot do it the way they do? ' Is the government taking care of these matters at all? Is it really possible to get information on it publicly? I think the people will insist on getting information about it if something else is going on, but what is said here. It is a health issue, and today it also takes 1 billion people a day for the situation to be the way it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u15	Mr. President. I'm going to talk to you about a statement yesterday that appeared on government consultations and was from the Ministry of Health. In it the Ministry describes the plans for providing a bill for a change in drug and drug law, so-called criminal consumption dosages, which actually go out in a material way to allow possession of a limited amount of drug and drug abuse. This is taking steps from a legal policy in the seminary, as stated in a minister's presentation. Of course, this calls for attention and questions, first of all, whether ideas are going beyond what is being proclaimed. Otherwise, it can be said that they should certainly not be thrown into prisons with rations. Most people can also agree that these are health issues. I wondered what a series of events there are in motion, Mr. President. From the standpoint of law enforcement, I am deeply concerned about this matter. From her point of view, all drug sales surveillance will become more difficult. That's how I'm afraid consumers will wave these materials in the face of a police officer who's left out. We also realized that drug abuse will take place in public if this becomes a law, even here in the East. The dealers will hide among these people. It is well - known that those who start on relatively dangerous drugs tend to lead to dangerous substances. It's been a sedative effect, and I'm worried that maybe this change will lead to the inhibition of many people's neighborhoods. I think it might, for example. Then there will be mild punishment in these matters. For instance, it might be an important step to remove punishment from police records, e.g. two years. The main focus on government activities in this regard is education on the harmfulness of these substances and how they can lead to serious health problems, especially in the field of mental health. [[The president calls.]] Besides, strong preventive measures are always needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u16	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the neighbour County legislation and other laws, on the subject. 418, 344. The bill is the first step in a review of the consumers' arrangements set out by law on consumers, No. 62/2005. The bill aims to move the work of the Navitator Lab to other institutions, where professional ties and compatibility are increased. The bill suggests that the Commission's projects on the field of product security, public market care and measurement will be transferred from the consumer lab to the Homing and Managing Agency and administrative projects on the field of electronic identification and solid service to be brought to the post and telecommunications agency. The aim of the change is to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of monitoring for jobs and consumers and to bring tasks to the parties where they are most compatible. It is more fortunate that professional tasks are the same, i.e. that legal projects with the same objectives and/or similar methodology are in the same administration. Today, consumer services are carried out by many different consumer administrations, goods, public market security and statistics, as detailed in the Neighbour Lab Act, No. 62/2005. Since the institution, however, there have been some changes in the activities of the consumer lab. The subject of professional matters was transferred from the Nite Owl to the trade area of a private secret office. In 2009 and 2014, shortly after the formation of the Neyt end Office, the issues of electrical security building and electrical monitoring were moved from the consumer lab to two paces to the Homic and Manatism Institute. In 2013 a consumer spokesman was laid down. In recent years, consumers' offices have also been assigned projects in the fields of other ministers and are to include, in particular, monitoring of fires and generators. There is a wide range of material, goals, and methodologies in the administrative field, consumer rights, and goods. consumers are already widely distributed throughout the administration system, and the number of countries in their different areas of affairs is providing one way or another benefits to consumers. The consumer clinic does much more than direct tasks to consumer protection. Thus, a field project on measurement is not generally considered for consumers, although some of them can be indirectly involved in consumer interests. The safety monitoring of consumer goods clinics also does not directly identify consumers, but there are other safety checks carried out by a number of institutions. The change aims to establish a central government in the area of goods and services. This enables projects to achieve harmonization and to increase expertise and resources to handle complex tasks. The bill is not expected to be put down by the consumers' clinic but, rather, that the Agency is still doing its work in the field of consumer rights. They are being reorganized at the Ministry with the possibility of moving them in the second year of 2021, this year. In addition to the bill, the Ministry is working on streamlining a field-of-view rule in order to further transport projects to a professional market laboratory. If the bill remains unchanged that the law is expected to include financial impacts within the total budget of the state's budget, under budgetary and financial programmes of 2021 and 202025, with mainly a transfer of projects between Member States. A respectable president. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u17	Mr. President. V.E.G. Professional, industrial, and innovation ministers present a bill that attracts consumers. Actually, there are two. This bill represents changes in consumer law and other aspects of consumer administration. In Icelandic politics, consumers have not been a priority for long periods of time nor for this government. Take good care of them. The group of languages has been perpendicular within the Ministry that oversees consumers in Iceland. The consumer is defined as one who works in business in everyday life with regard to his advancement and as a member of the community. It involves not only consumption and nutritional factors but also services. I allow myself to state whether a minister does not believe that there is a lack of a complete policy and that this language is being treated in a fragile way against the administration. There is not much more important in the market economy than in this aspect being very active. Does a minister believe that this material is sufficiently improved by this bill and possibly by the currently existing elements? Where do our weaknesses lie, and what is needed to be corrected?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists the questions and questions he asks here. It is true that consumer talk in general, whether in the political field or in the community, is lower here than in many other places. consumer organizations are saying that my organization has become a powerful organization with many members. If we look at how they finance themselves, it is the proportion of money far higher here that comes with the payment of members than what they receive from governments. I think it's very important that the consumer organization is strong. By Christmas, I made a new deal with the Neighbour Society and further promoted it. These are botanical organizations, which can influence the general debate of these issues and into some testing cases that can have an impact on either legalization or community performance. consumers are, as I mentioned in my talk, in many parts of the management system, and I don't think it would be impossible to have them all in one place. The lead to the bill is that we've been looking at the founder's section, where the projects are today, and where the work today at the Navitors lab should be. I've been working at the Ministry for a few basics that help my environment and consumer governance, a simple matter, followed by an example of this. But I agree with what. A senator that matters in a free marketing economy that consumers can show support. The rule must be efficient and clear and beneficial, and this free organization has a key role. I think consumers do it well and take pride in doing better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answers. It is a pleasure to know that the Neighbour Association is strengthened because it is important in our community. V.E.G. The minister entered into his speech that it was considered, that it might be understood, as it were, to put down the neighbourn chamber. Was that a serious subject, and does it seem to be a reason to consider it further? The role of the Ministry on consumers is also To implement directives from European consumer protection legislation in Icelandic legislation due to Iceland's Member States on the EEA Convention. It was a very lucky move when we became a member of the EEA and a great success for the Icelandic consumers, not just the Icelandic economy. It was for the struggle of our peers that it was possible, a great blessing for an Icelandic society. The EU is constantly looking for ways to improve consumer rights and consumer legislation is very strong, including to support consumer organizations in the Member States. There has been little or no progress in ensuring consultation with the representatives of consumers or domestic stakeholders. However, representatives of the industry and financial organisations have had relatively easy access to consultation in committees and departments at the time of the Ministry. But counts at the highest. The minister that this bill guarantees it in some way that better consultations will be made to consumer interests, both consumers' and e.g. Is it a domestic interest group? Is it possible for a minister to see that the Neighbour Society can be even stronger in consumer protection in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u20	Mr. President. I believe that the consumers' organization can be even more powerful to promote consumer protection and consumer awareness and, in effect, to promote each consumer in his decision-making and awareness of the importance of being consumers and what he can do as such, of course, the organization is the maintenance of those selling goods and services. As for the future role and the position of the consumers firm, that is a general view. We're working on it in a good way with the economy. The purpose of all of this is to improve the management of consumers. Of course, this will be done in steps, and it is one of them. I mentioned earlier that we had been promoting the consumer organization by a new agreement, supporting it further so that they could expand their work. You need to look at consumers in a larger context. We are also promoting the independent ruling committees, guided by consumer rights, which is the case I make afterwards. It is important that we look at this in the overall context. We offer to move projects to another place where there is considerable cooperation, both professional and professional objectives of these projects, and then we take a closer look at other factors with the aim of improving the protection of the consumers in the country. The consumer organizations have a role in this, as well as a clear and effective rule. Secure monitoring of the various factors must be available. Despite the fact that I can totally agree with what's happened. A senator, about the fact that consumers are not always focused on a general discussion, we have been taking a very positive step during this term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this speech. The talk and a list of Nitte Center's projects will show us beyond any doubt that this institution has no basis for existence. She's been cut off for five to ten years, one at a time, and this is probably one of the most long - term deaths of a single institution you've seen in a very long time. I just wondered, there must be some really good work force in this institution. But I have to ask the highest. Minister: When these steps are taken, why wasn't the right way now, and the consumer room laid down, and consumer protection and consumer languages placed somewhere, e.g. Into the Contestant Commission, now cut off at the mouth of the Mittens Lab? Why on earth do humans not set out a comprehensive policy in these matters and work to the end? This is such a typical case, Mr. President, of how this government manages to complicated the simplest case, to file a case in some kind of butt pocket as here is done. This is more important than tears, for such a decision should be able to go relatively quickly with reasonable preparation. But no, people still work on cutting off tasks, leaving out a ten - part list of nonconformable tasks and not providing protection for consumers in any way. I must ask the Minister if it is not the will of the government and the Minister himself to take over and begin consumer protection on a higher level than this ambitious bill assumes.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u22	Mr. President. In addition to the Agency, new projects have been received over the past few years, as I was included in my speech. The Nite Owl is not being laid down with this bill. This step is being taken, which is a professional preparation, and evidence is given for the synergistic effect of the new task site. I reviewed earlier that the Ministry is revising consumer rights projects that monitor the sort of consumer rights. We have received external advisers on the task of making a specific staging analysis, just to do a good job and write it out, and to have a comprehensive view of how these matters are best handled. We've been looking at how these projects have developed over the years and how things are done elsewhere. We are here in a very small administrative capacity and therefore, at times we have to think things out in a slightly different way than in a far larger number of countries. We are also working on it, as I did in my talk, with regard to the measurement field, with the goal that it will be carried out only in the field of professional activities on the market, not absolutely necessary that the State itself performs that task but require it to be performed. Such a project shouldn't be in such a bill, but we're putting the bill aside. So in my mind, we're just careful, looking at it in one of the overall contexts, and taking it step by step with the goal of promoting consumer protection in Iceland and strengthening the environment of consumers. This helps to create a new agreement with the consumers organization to enable them to do their work, which is very important to consumers in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I'm aware that this bill is not the scene of the Nite Owl Lab, so I asked why it's not done at the same time. Also, I cannot agree with what says about the consumers organization in Iceland, although they are quite worthwhile, the government cannot extend the protection of consumers to free communities in a town that has a measure of conditions thus adapted. The State must set rules and take the lead and show respect for consumers in the country by exalting these matters from being at first in a well - established institution with a few projects all around the globe. So I'll just mention, by permission of the president, that's what market surveillance on consumer dishes on page 5. 6 In the bill that the Agency is initially monitoring the national flag and national shielding laws. With the respect I have for the Icelandic flag and the government badge, I ask myself what it is like to do in the consumers lab. Why is that not somewhere by the Ministry of Justice? This is so incomprehensible, Mr. President. If it's done with some kind of advice, I hope she hasn't been the animal of money thought because she hasn't been good, you see. I say again, why do the Minister and the government not only go to work, put this institution down, and have consumer protection and consumer business in order to obtain and respect by setting them up for the future elsewhere, e.g. to replace other projects in a growing institution that handles the project? Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u24	Mr. President. This discussion would have been credible if all the projects of consumers were in the neighbours lab, but that is not the case. In many parts of the management system, consumer control and consumer rights is a major concern. It's in the Homing House and Human Resources Institute, the Institute of Medicine, the Post and Communications Office, and in many other places. We are just making sure that there is a rule, that it is clear, and that the surveillance is adequate. In my mind, we have the exact respect for the group and the project by taking it in those steps while doing this. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the flag and why it should not be held in the Ministry of Justice. I don't know better than a pack. A candidate makes a lot of money to produce domestic food, and this monitoring focuses on the fact that consumers can assume that when the Icelandic flag is used in the sense of various foods, food is really Icelandic. I'm not sure that such a check would be better at the Justice Department. Rather, the check is to ensure a certain source of signals and transparency and information for consumers in order to make informed decisions. It may well be that I would like to be more liberal about the use of flags than any other person in this room, but this is why there is a monitoring, there are legislation on how companies are allowed to use flag markings when marking their products. Then we demand to be Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u25	Mr. President. I did not intend to extend this discussion, but the ill - tempered suspicion I had regarding this matter became crystalting in my exchange of words at the highest level. Minister just now. I am aware that consumer rights are widely available and touch all our everyday lives, i.e. if we buy goods or services. So I find it even more incomprehensible to be griting the consumer rights all over the country, in the House and Mansition Institute, the Post and Communications Office, etc., by the nature of the business at any given time. Perhaps it would be proper to present a formal request of 100 cases of consumer rights in various fields and ask where they have specific rights, regardless of which they are, to be protected, and whether they are all protected by the consumer languages being hollow and running all over the administration board. And talking about getting perspective, I can't see that people get perspective by throwing these projects all over the place. I say again, I have thought for a very long time that I would not lay down the consumers' room. When it came to the point of a person's becoming electronic and computer - controlled scale, you began to wonder, " What really is the purpose of this facility and what is the purpose of this system? ' I don't remember the number right now, but I remember seeing the number 270 million a year that this institution costs. At the same time, reports were made that the Agency is fined the mall merchants for 50,000 calls per person, for not marking a pair of greens in the window of twitter. So these were the Agency's projects, as they were against the public. I say again, Mr. President, why don't you start people now, i.e. The government and the highest. Ministers, consumer rights projects, and consumer protection on a higher level than they do? If they were once again doing this task of cutting off a job of this poor institution, and making it even more miserable, and making it even less difficult to live up to some serious activity, why didn't men take the step to the finish, as I said earlier, and put it down and moved her project into a crumbling institution as a secondary project instead of keeping alive in this institution? With deep respect to the consumer organizations, they are a free association organization, and although they are all worthy and are better off on a recent mission, they cannot be extended to their responsibility for how consumers and consumers are to be placed in the land. I have to point to models in Denmark where the government will gather members of a free organisation to form a whole or an area to which consumers are supposed to pay a way. There's an end to a lightyear between consumer rights here and Denmark, so I'll name only one country. I still don't understand the ambition when people were going to do this in so many steps and so many pieces, I just don't get it. I hope that the committee who accepts this bill, if it doesn't work, it'll be a financial and business committee, and try to complete this mission for the Minister and the government, since they won't succeed, Mr. President, to win this perfectly. I had certain hopes, when this bill was announced, that it was now doing something that was about to happen. It would be a new beginning, to strengthen the position of consumers in the land and consumer protection. But no, Mr. President, here comes this bill, which is so heartlessly ambitious that it leads to tremendous disappointment. To ensure agreement, the Minister said, we agree absolutely there. In the case of government savings, one of the things the Central Party is fighting for is that it gathers into public business as far as possible. Therefore, Mr. President, I so strongly suggest that institutions that do not have sound ground for existence and that are implacable to carry out tasks that are of greater significance, are better presence as a division within a larger total organization. As money is saved and combined, the necessary tasks that remain in a far - reaching way and in a way that someone is wasting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u26	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law relating to the decision-making in the field of consumer languages, a simple ruling committee. The bill suggests a system modification of several legal judges in the field of consumers. The objective of the bill is to create a complete and coordinated system of decision-making agents in the field of consumers, which is based on the law on decision-making in the field of consumers, No. 81/2019, and the arrangement and recognition of the judges involved in these laws. Thus, the bill suggests changes that there will be no legal committees, but free, approved ruling committees on the basis of consumer law. In this way, consumers' disputes with financial companies, insurance companies, insurance companies, and real estate sales will be solved by free approved judges instead of legal agents. As a result, the activities of the decision-making committee and the decision-making committee in business with financial companies will receive almost original arrangements by contracting personnel and consumer organizations without compromising the access of consumers to effective and professional non-conformed lawsuits. As a result of changes in the surveillance committees of real estate sales, the Committee will have increased scope for administrative management on the basis of the law on property sales and its role in providing non-binding opinions to the consumers of the fees of real estate sales and the possible damage to their damage to the management of the Commission is compatible with the mismanagement of the administrative activities of the Commission. It is also the goal of the bill to make the committee's arrangements more specific and flexible in terms of situation and business matters and to improve the general availability of consumers to non-authorities. The bill is divided into nine chapters. Chapter I of the bill is suggested to make a reference law on consumer judges' fields, No. 81/2019, clearer. It aims to ensure that consumers can always consult outside courts for a solution to private conflicts with consumers' trades and services, while the right consumers' rights are guaranteed by the European Parliament Directive and the Council, 2013/11/EU, for the release of consumers outside the courts and for which it is properly introduced into Icelandic rights on this issue. The changes suggested to II. to VI. section deals with all laws that deal in one way or another with the decision-making committee on business with financial companies. It is suggested that the regulations of the legal committee and, therefore, be taken into account by financial companies. Instead of the decision-making committee on business with financial companies, consumers are suggested to be referred to the decision-makers in order to deal with consumers'conflicts in accordance with consumer judges' legislation. It may be based on incidents involving a free, approved decision-making agent, as expected by the Commission to be on business with a financial enterprise, or the Commission's Committee of Products and Service. Wll's. Unable to load FIEF file. Chapters are suggested to eliminate laws on insurance agreements, No. 30/2004, and fixing the distribution of insurance, No. 62/201, which covers the decision-making committee and the decision-making committee on the distribution of insurance. It is suggested that, instead of references to the decision-making committees, there is a court order to the appropriate decision-makers in the field of consumers. It may be based on events involving free, approved judges, as expected to be the decision-making committee, or the NTSB's Committee of Products and Service. In a report by the Ministry of Presidency in 2019, on the independent administrative committees, the Commission's arrangements for business dealings with financial companies and the decision-making committees are considered unusual and the administrative situation of the committees is inexplicably blurred. The bill therefore suggests that the committees will be brought closer to their original arrangement on the basis of their exclusive contract and legal obligation. The IX. Chapters are suggested to enforce law on property sales and ships, No. 70/2015, who discussed the management of the real estate retailor's complaints and buyers because of damages to property sales or problems with property prices. The main task of a real estate agent is to have initiative surveillance on property sales and legal work. The task of dealing with consumers'complaints about the private rights of a real estate agreement is that the nuclear functions of the Committee fall miserably. The consumers are expected to be able, on the other hand, to direct the complaint as a result of such a conflict with the real estate dealer to a free, approved decision-making agent or to the off-board of products and services. It is suggested that this year, September 1, 2021, be accepted by law. It is suggested that consumer personnel and organizations have sufficient time to reorganize the committee's work and apply for their recognition under the European Commission's legislation on consumers. It should be noted that the bill does not reduce the bioavailability of consumers to extracurricular treatments, but it ensures that consumer judges' legislation in any way guarantees access to efficient and professional treatment of problems outside the courts. The requirements of the legislation and the handling of the approved judges ensure professional treatment of the committees. The economic impact is expected to be negligible, and it is more likely to reduce the financial cost than to increase it. Costs due to possible service contracts with a free partner or trade group and the administration of free approved judges will be set aside within the current budget. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u27	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for the speech. As noted in her case, and as we know, we have a lot of committees in all kinds of fields in Iceland. That's why I'd like to ask the highest question. Just when these three committees are to be taken over, a minister of whether they have ever been discussed, that in the countries around us, there are many special governmental courts. Now, I do not assume that the above - mentioned committees have been feeding more easily than we have the ruling committees on the most unlikely issues that both cost money and are, as mentioned earlier in my case, examples of small units that are incomplete but also very expensive. So I would like to know if at any time in this work process as described here there was a discussion and whether it was on the agenda of the government to set up a political court and to cover these panels all that would be brought up under such a court.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u28	Mr. President. I understood a word. A senator might be accepting the opinion that this had become quite a number of independent ruling committees in many parts of the system. I believe that it is, and the work the government gave to Páll Hreinsson in effect finds that there is a comparable conclusion that there is a need to do some work in this regard. The decision - making committees indicate that when we look at all the committees we have here, they are only more diverse than that. I think we are faced with such a project, and it has been discussed in a larger context within the government. But this matter is really too small for that discussion. A much larger context, more committees in other areas, would need to be the decision of the system to engage in such work with some seriousness. These changes are being suggested as small and decisive that there could never be a basis for such a decision. But I think that this discussion can be taken, and that's why they went to work back then, and we got Páll Hreinsson to discuss many complex aspects of the matter, which time it takes either to answer the cost or to improve the status of the people, or whether we're in the middle of such a court of law. But that subject was not put on the agenda for this bill, and the changes we make here are simply relative and small that it would never be possible to influence the big decision that would have to be the whole system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u29	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. In fact, I'm going to make a slight disagreement that maybe these issues are too limited and a little to go into a bigger context. Then again, the thing I've said before is that instead of being working things in little steps and some butts, it might be secondary, and I think it's a pleasure, to take a larger basic theme, despite the fact that these issues are under or know how to be below may be smaller in format than many other ruling committees are doing on a day-to-day basis. Now I don't know exactly what it is like in these committees here, whether it's been a long waiting period or a long treatment period, but it's characterized some other committees, perhaps because they're each not so hot in business and they don't have much to control. That is why we may wonder, " Is it not time to work really to establish a administrative court, including to make life easier for the public, that there is an office or port where things can be arranged in a quick and efficient way? ' So I kind of repeat my appeal to the highest degree. Ministers and governments are developing a policy to establish a state-of-the-art administrative court.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u30	Mr. President. This change hangs with the law from the first time we approved here, about an investigator in the field of consumers. Thus, these small, limited ruling committees are being strengthened by moving them to form a staff organization or a free community organization. One example of a new legal committee such as this is the National Association of the Cartel and the Social Services Committee of Iceland. Other disagreements will be taken to the Committee on Products and Service, which has been greatly strengthened, so there is a better consumer protection through these changes. In general, it is not a long waiting period of time or a long period of court treatment or a lot of people waiting for a conclusion. These committees, however, have different levels of activity, and they do vary. But there are times when there are complaints of a lack of expertise, especially when they take too much knowledge and do not get much more of that, in some cases, may have an effect. But bringing them closer to the business, so to speak, is a source of expertise at least. So I believe that this trend is good. The decision - making committees according to topic areas are therefore positive, but they need to be balanced, of course. Perhaps that's the way a board of products and services is referred to as a matter of course. A senator is here discussing, taking something that doesn't belong anywhere else. By establishing independent committees in this arrangement, we are hopefully improving our expertise and the rest that will not go to the Committee on Products and Service.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u31	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 449, which is 345th, a change in salmon and trout law. The bill suggests a few changes in the salmon and trout laws and the main proposal for the bill aims to strengthen the minority protection in a hunting society with special guidelines for meeting. The last legislature of the legislature was given a bill that was headed for the same objective, but it did not become a law. That bill then based again on a senator's bill. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson moved along with others. The comments and suggestions given during the treatment of the case at the General Assembly at the last legislation and the bill is the product of that work. The bill suggests that there is a proposal for a social meeting of a fishing company that holds the right to a carer at the hunting club or to a member associated with it, at least two-thirds of the votes. However, this is only true if the partner or partner associated with him or her has a minimum of 30% vote. It is also suggested that the same increased proportion is needed to reduce the number of fish in the catch area unless the changes are negligible. In this context, it would be appropriate to refer to the 2006 salmon and trout fishing law as a requirement for being in a hunting society and to the role of the club to exchange fishing or to profit from fishing between members in accordance with their rights. Before the arrival of an o entitlement, each owner could provide his own land and rent his rights to the land. On the other hand, the principle in the current law is that hunting rights are not allowed to fish in water in their area except under the authority of the hunting club. However, since the entitlement of the law, the protection of the less part of the population in hunting communities has been unattainable. According to current law, the principle is that the power of votes at the main meetings and general social meetings is few exceptions. That means even. That more in a fishing club can prevent the fishing rights from being rented and at the same time refusing to catch in water by a hunter's rights. So it may become possible that the sea of hunting rights cannot provide for its own land or earn money from these benefits, with the considerable limit to the provision and provision of its food rights. This is basic to me in this matter and something that the General needs to consider deeply. The bill suggests four other changes. First of all, change the quality of the fishing lab quality, including due to illegal implementation. It is suggested that permission be carried out by law without permission can be stopped immediately by the Fishing Room. In the event that the procedure is not compatible with the law or the given permit, the fish lab should provide a written warning and a suitable extension. If this is not the case, it is permitted to stop the work or operation and use day-to-day benefits. This proposal is made according to Fish Room's tip, which feels that they lack the authority to handle situations that seem to arise, although they must be few. Second, changes are suggested that make it easier for roommates to participate in votes within a hunting club. This is the background of the fact that all owners or courts must be placed on the ground to establish a common conclusion as to who shall have a vote for a farm and is obliged to leave such a written commission at social meetings to be considered valid. The bill suggests that there are only two thirds of the world's owners capable of determining who has the right to vote, which may hopefully make this decision easier. Third, an amendment change in the expense programme due to the work of the Committee of Assessments (IRCs) as assessed by the World Assessment Committee is proposed. the part of the law. The bill suggests a change of 47th. The law states that the State is costing the work of a financial committee and making the annual purchases of members of the Committee, but in turn, fishermen should normally pay the cost of a government fund. In this way the Ministry is expected to place accounts of the Commission or its representatives and then reinvest the funds without having any other resources in the work of the Committee. This arrangement has been under way since 2006. It is suggested that this arrangement be removed, not that the public is needed to have this through hands that may be more likely to raise the cost of interest than the other. However, it is reasonable that a ministerial servant will continue to be granted the authority to determine the time paid by the committee and its employee. Finally, a fourth step is put in order to change the committee's orders. First, I'd like to say a few words about the interest profile itself. With 41 st. a layer of salmon and trout fishing is recommended for the factors to be used to divide interest between partners in a fishing society. First, there is a place for net fishing and fishing, second, land length for fishing, water volume and water bottom, and third, spawning conditions. If there is a disagreement on how to divide money on the basis of these views, it is subjected to a special legal committee that operates according to Article 44. The law. In 2015 a group of my predecessors were appointed to review the work of the Game Committee. In addition to the members of the Ministry, he was represented by the Institute of Fishing and the National Union of Fishing. It was noted that the task force considered that the level of fishing and fishing had increased from 41.3% to 49% from 1996 to 2005, with a warning in 2009 and 2009,2015, based on the uniqueness of each fishing water. Similarly, the value of tray length, habitats, and other assessments had been reduced. The change, however, would be more likely to be viewed solely for sustainable salmon fishing. It was then thought that the cost of cooking was high and that there had been increasing, and there was reason to review the legal structure of the European Commission with the aim of reducing expenses. It is expected that the public will be withdrawn from the charge of this expense, which can only contribute to its rise. At the end of the 2015 report, the Constitution committee was organized. It noted that while much of the evaluation was done in an educational field, there were no requirements for fishing knowledge or knowledge. It might also be asked whether landowners were right to appoint a member of the committee as well as to review the demands on the expertise of the eaters. The bill responds to the challenge in order to remove the order that two of the three representatives should meet the local Court's general condition. This will make it easier to appoint representatives to the Committee with expertise or experience in fishing or in the biology of aquatic fish. It is suggested that one representative be appointed according to the National Institute of Research, while another without a form of appointment will be appointed to the chairman. There was no reason to cancel the rights of a local hunting partner to nominate the committee because of the strong request of the relationship. A respectable president. Other than that, I want to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u32	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill for a change in the law of the earth, on the threshing floor. It's 467, 375. The bill suggests changes in land laws in order to simplify regulations and at the same time take better care to protect land. Is this in harmony with the emphasis of the government's covenant that shows that effort will be made in a simple rule? The most important proposals of the bill are the expulsion of agricultural ministers in decision-making and agri-environmental solutions. Instead, aquifers are suggested to guide the matter to view changes in agricultural practices. At the same time as the bill, there is a guide for the agrienvironment schemes expected to be published beyond the end of the year. It is also suggested that the decision to change land on land be better established by the permission of rural society to demand information and to view the effect of such exchanges on agricultural conditions. These suggestions have been prepared in my Ministry for the second year and have been presented twice on the Board's Communications. The bill is an important subject for meditation on the practicality and provision of breeding land. It is a good thing that the Council is now giving the opportunity to review these matters once the time is over 15 years after existing geologic laws were passed. It's often said that Iceland is a big country. That is correct, but considering what we have from a farm or a land of land, it is quite different. Only about one quarter of the country is below a 200 - foot [200 m] heightline, so the lowerlands are very variable, such as we know. A few years ago, researchers felt that only 6% of the country could be considered productive, or about 600,000 acres [600,000 ha], of which only a small proportion could be considered a very beneficial land. A more detailed article will explain this with the bill. It also discusses how this resource will be maintained for the future and how it will be maintained. The best way to protect agricultural land is, of course, to use it and to use it for agricultural purposes, and to plan that land protection will be better considered, both in planning and in the setting of decision-making. The rest of the bill's suggestions can be divided into three categories. First, the law is suggested to be simplified by exorbitant or misleading measures. This is well explained by the bill and refers to what it says. Second, it is suggested that the conditions of the premarital rights to the earth be clearly defined in order to ensure that this right will be maintained, including when the exchange takes place in a society on earth that is entitled to premium. It is only natural to set the rules in this way, considering that there is much more common today than there was in the past than the fact that an impersonal person should not bury and those who are also able to live in a camp under wrapping law. Third, some adjustments are presented to regulations of Article 10. b found in ground law by law No. 85/2020, approved at the 150th legislation. These changes, in particular, led to treatment and format of data derived from a protocol carried out in Article 10. a in the law and their communication between the government. These are the terms of the bill agreed in agreement with the government's office and the company of prime ministers on real estate issues that have been involved in the preparation and implementation of these new laws in the land. The bill consists of a complete review of laws on the land and other property in Icelandic rights, mainly performed at the scene of a special management group on a universal set of laws relating to land and other property, where my Ministry representatives share a number of other bodies. A respectable president. Other than that, I want to refer to the comments that follow the bill. It will give a detailed discussion of its contents. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to the 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u33	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his discussion on the matter. After reviewing the matter and reviewing it in the Board's consultations, it seems to me that the Ministry has gone quite far to respond to the excellent remarks received, and it's a good thing. Certain factors were simply taken from the subtraction of the bill, which I believe was for simplicity and improvement. However, the reviews call attention to other issues that will be interesting to consider in the next weeks' discussion of the committee. But there was one thing, Mr. President, which I believe is important to ask the highest. Minister for. It has to do with the reports of possible economic impacts on rural society, especially with regard to the obligation of agriculture groups. The European Union pointed out that such a obligation could be a major burden to some rural communities, despite the fact that many societies are already working this class without legal obligation. True, this section of the bill has changed considerably from the lines of communication published and has become clearer. However, after reading the bill text, I still don't feel quite clear whether agrienvironmental population will be obliged to become part of agrienvironmental society or not, or whether the cause is that a Minister will decide it by his own regulations. So I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether this is a legal requirement for the community or if a minister will decide later, and if there is any question as to what the minister will decide on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I know this discussion only by my community, and I know of the emphasis that has existed. We tried to deal with this in some way, but we may not have gone too far. But as shown in a paper with the bill, and in my history I was able to do so, there are guiding rules in modeling and processing in the Ministry. Of course, we'll do it in cooperation with our rural society, presenting and calling for comments to that rule when it's ready. I've felt that this must be done because, as is indicated in a report, to grow a land, if we can say so, there is a limited amount. It is much less than generally thought, and, therefore, direction on planning needs to be given, the perpetuating of governments just to preserve the growing land in society. The problem in this case, when the question is addressed to a agricultural minister in this case, is that the organizational authority is elsewhere. This is a decision that must then agree with the right authorities over the organization and in good cooperation with local communities. I think this could benefit everyone, it's not the point of putting financial burdens on the rural population. This is no doubt a significant question on the way this counsel works to see how rural society is affected. If the classification is made by the State and made a complete nation over the land, it should not be very burdensome work to take into account the organizational instructions. Nevertheless, we must make sure that our organization is at home in a rural region, so it is necessary to comply with the instructions made by the government. However, this decision has not been made in these matters. A senator was asking around.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I'm glad to hear that. Minister is aware of the situation. It's important to do this. I can agree with that with the highest. Ministers that it is very important that we have a good perspective on cultivated land, for whatever purpose it is cultivated. Apparently, though, it hasn't been decided yet, and I'm glad it's done. Minister says it will be decided in agreement with the rurals. But we must bear in mind here, and in all matters where there is a conversation between state and rural society, that, of course, Mr. President, it is not working that the government is repeatedly adding duties and duties to the rural communities without financial support from the state to do them. I know it's the highest. Ministers well know how well the former mayor that farm society's income stocks are less flexible than the State, so it is only natural that they follow financial support when projects are placed on the shoulders of the local community. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the second issue of whether he will put up with it, whether it comes to his mind, that the law will become clearer in that matter, in order to ensure that they will make more money if they have to put this obligation on the shoulders of the rural society, in order to ensure that all the rural communities in the country have the means and the opportunity to do this work as well as it is important to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u36	A respectable president. I'm not a debater on the part of the government to raise the cost of one or no one, either of my own, individual or business. These are simply tasks that need to be done. During the process of this case, there was an excellent partnership with the European Union society, and it took its heart to the point of the bill, which is simply to eliminate organizational decisions that would be burdensome for rural society because of the earth's laws. So it's both plus and minus in the process, and we have to be human beings to look at the situation in a collective way and to evaluate the expense that may result from the legal process as well as the cost that may result from it. The scene in which such cases are handled is the so - called St John's Mass Committee, if that is the case. But just to be told here, my wish is not to put the increase in the cost of rural society, but much more to simplify the process, to make things clearer with the view that the improvement of rural society, I don't now talk about agriculture in the country, and then the government, naturally, will be the greatest, and beyond the system, and the procedure that we have on these matters today. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u37	A respectable president. Here is a bill for the legislation on the change of earth law, a bill that I consider to be good in many respects, especially after the changes made after comments made during a conversational presentation. The bill seems to provide the rural community with a tool to manage land use in accordance with an organization. It's like the highest. The minister entered his history measures 2 st. for the development of a major rural organization to be set up for breeding opportunities. The minister gives instructions on the category of farms in agreement with the restitution authorities. In the case of the highest. A minister then stated that these instructions should be before the end of the year. The question is, Which end of the year? In fact, I believe it is the end of 2020. Is there anything a minister can tell me about this situation? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to 2nd. It is suggested that the term cultivated land should change slightly so as not to reach the forest, for most of it is clear that forest is not cultivated in the same sense as tuna and seedlands, according to a report. Of course, this does not have any anti-forestation attitude, which is often carried out in agricultural areas with good results, such as sheltering, etc. But I wondered: " Can this change have an effect on other laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. The date of the year's end is asked. I'm sure it won't be before the end of 2020. I see we've missed that wagon. We're just trying to win this as fast as we can. We need to cooperate, though, with any number of people in this matter, and my will allows this rule to follow simply by law or by law. We'll see how the council's working on it. I hope we can finish this year, there's been a lot of work in this case in recent years. In terms of the definition of agricultural land, it's a very good job that I think it's long time we got to come into regularity somehow. For farms and forestry, I've heard of these views, including From a fine Dalvik, who dwells east of the country, and I find every reason to cross them. I have encouraged forest farmers to present their views to the council when the committee has received the discussion. I have a clear understanding of that viewpoint, but what we were doing in this was focusing on this agricultural industry. So this may have been, and may have some connections with, other than those under the Ministry that I preside over. As we know, me and what. A senator, then the forest industry under the Environment Ministry, has a wide range of opinions among many about whether it is more reasonable to have a forest in the country as a agriculture and under the Department of Agriculture. It is a solution that must also be addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. In fact, when the bill was removed from my council to the council, I made it a special warning that the committee would be a success of taking the woodforest to the 20 mg. 2.g. The law, and I will reiterate it to the committee. However, I have been a great spokesman for the provision of instruction on the groups of the country in rural areas. I think there's a basis for so many things. There is a basis for the practical use of existing governments in both organizational and geologic laws. I would like to redirect the question to the minister if it was possible for the committee, which would review this bill, to see the outline. I think that's a key to understanding the consequences of a change in definition. As a result, I would like to wonder if there could be a reason to produce more than one category of cultivated land, i.e. First, this category, which may be the smallest part of the country, which we really want to ensure is irreversibly taken for other uses than food or food, and secondly, a growing country in which forestry and rivers are being developed. You may fall under. In fact, it is in organizational terms that there is a class intended for recovery of land quality but perhaps not particularly for agricultural forestry.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u40	A respectable president. Yeah, I know the warning from what. A senator about the forest industry. I respect that viewpoint, and I wonder what it is. A member of the Parliament to help the committee to address the discussion and take a position on their views. It's about whether the committee can get this presentation. It's just a matter of opinion. Somehow, in my memory, we've studied these rules, made them, and called for comments. We've introduced them to a variety of sources, and I just feel that, if you call them, I'll give you all the information that's in progress. It does nothing other than benefiting the case and the main objective of the rules to support, i.e. that we make the best of what we have here, Icelanders, the 600,000 fines we have for our provision, according to a rough estimate.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u41	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in fish control law, No. 116/2006, on deck. 625, 418th case, with so-called pro-species and settlements. The Act on Fish Control it is recommended that the amount of fish corresponding to 5.3% of the allowed total resources should not be set aside as a source but, rather, the need specified in the law to provide support for communityisation, to line up, to coastal fishing, and other temporary measures. In April 2019, I appointed a team under the president of Þóroddur Bjarnason, a professor at the University of Akureyri, to review the treatment and administration of these documents. The task force's commission stressed the need to consider whether the objectives of these resources had been met and the following events have suggested changes. It also referred to the government's policy in the government's treaties that have to be weighed and assessed, including coastal fishing with the objective of securing more colonisation and innovation. The bill is based on the proposals made by a group of workers analysed in his report to me from February 18 last year. The bill aims to provide a clearer legal basis for the treatment and the provision of the resources that the State has issued annually for the employment and community resources and to define better purposes and objectives of the intervention. This is 5.3% of all available resources from Icelandic ships. The objective is to ensure that the use of these sources will contribute to the structure and innovation of the article and that their value will be the most abundant. Therefore, it is important to set clear and measurable goals, to have adequate follow-up and to be regularly evaluated. A respectable president. Now, I'm going to step on the bill's main subject. First, the use of 5.3% of resources for specific measures, now found in various sections of a fishing regime, is summarised in one chapter of the law and created a clearer basis for its use and treatment. At the same time, the purpose and objective of individual activities, as detailed in the individual articles, are summarized in one objective. In this way, there will be one set of regulations regarding the objective of these actions and the specific requirements for individual action. Second, a fixed ratio of 5.3% of resources between individual tasks is required. The aim of these proportions is based on a provision for individual fish fishing year 2019/2020. At the same time, there is a requirement that the minister should be less than once every three years and that the synonyms of the proposed treatment and the use of requested documents should be submitted for the next six years. The proposal of the bill involves a longer term shift from what is now in the process of switching, i.e. to six in place of each year of fishing, which contributes to an increase in perception between years. This ensures that the catch ratios, not tons, are linked to changes in the total quantity of species per year. Third, it will be ensured that by the distribution of general rural areas, the support of scattered marine areas will be emphasised. In this way, the fixed ratio of the general mural population will be distributed annually to individual settlements, with the distribution of the mean distribution of the previous year by eutrophicate. At the same time, there will be an objective rule that includes the inclusion of such distributions only to communities that have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants, but with the obligation that there would be an increase of 0.1% for each population in excess of 1,000. This includes some adjustment from the current legalization and development in which a minister, having agreed with a graffiti, has been permitted to set the amount of resources based on a specific set of physical conditions according to Article 10. The law. Fourth: Based on the request of rural, partial, or overall, initiatives for specific rural and experimental projects to develop. Fifth, it is suggested that the nullification rate for each of the three - month period is extended as an adjunct to the general rural area. It will then be divided from sea to sea in accordance with their share in straddling lines compared with the average of the past few years. sixth, it is assumed that the concept of fishing in transport will be clarified and that such fishing will be discussed in a specific article. Seven: it will be authorised to negotiate in an experimental way for the use of general eutrophicate or source sources due to a corrupt line requisite for the increased variety of job life within the labour sector. This source, however, will be limited in both energy and number of projects. Then there is a permission warrant for Ministers to implement in Regulation that the Agency or other public agencies may be entrusted with such tasks on the basis of agreements and effectiveness assessment. The eighth is suggested that a minister uses every fishing year for a provision equivalent to 10.52% of the amount of unbound bottom fish that has been set aside to promote employment and build up in a reserve to meet unexpected events that could have negative effects. At 9th, the Minister's warrant will be dismissed to 1st Sector 1st. 10th par. and thereby shell and shrimping benefits that have been taken care of for the past few years. The provisional directives are rather suggested that those in the hands of the shell and shrimp reformers be distributed to a panoramic section in total of 1,482 codfishtons. Finally, a provision is made to stipulate that the provision and share of resources and measures associated with them will be re-evaluated in the light of experience and after events changed to six years if necessary. A respectable president. I'd like to finally point my head. The members of the staff report on which the bill is largely based. This includes an interesting summary of the development of this 5.3% system and, for example, Refer to the overall value of employment and groundwater resources estimated from 5.5 to7.5 billion k. last year of fishing. As a result, there is considerable value in this system and natural that such support has clear and measurable objectives, a follow-up is adequate, and the results are regularly measured, as the bill assumes. In addition, in recent years there have been many ideas about the changes in this system. However, as the group suggested, it is the wisest thing to reconsider this system in a balanced way to end a great deal of money from sea to sea in all parts of the earth. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u42	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the bill he puts here. I think there's only good news in this bill that will probably be settled at what. A job committee when it has been delivered and discussed. I feel that there have been many very good changes. After being involved in these matters on the committee, including with her president since 2013, who has been able to make some positive changes in this system, especially during the coast, I would like to ask the minister a few questions. It is reported that on each fishing vessel, only 650 pounds [650 kg] of codfish is allowed to fall in the country each day. As we may know about seawater, it is sometimes difficult to carry it on a kilometer, and it has been found that small boats from countries directly in the market have at times become guilty because of this, much less so for people who are involved in business. I would like to ask the minister if he saw in his mind that we would have some flexibility in this process that we could make up for each week. I'd also like to ask the minister to explain to us how he wants to use up - to - date sources, not to be reached into the coastal fishing system, as it has been in recent years. Also, I would like to ask the minister if he or she had any questions about what has happened and we've been questioned, about changing timings in coastal fishing areas, which have been called in some cases. In fact, changes in coastal fishing over the past few years have been very successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u43	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. The nature of the matter according to the rules, there are some good things in this bill as well as others. I'd like to stress that the bill is based on the work of a team meeting in all four parts of the country, probably by the top of 400 parties, and then made comments from those found at those meetings and made the proposals published in the report, and the bill is largely behind. Of the fact that it's hard to catch a kilo a day, it's certainly true. Whether or not there are ways to find one's means of doing so. A senator calls out if there was any possibility of a flexibility in this, so it might be. The committee will record it in their discussion on the subject. But I'm only going to come back to it, because it has something to do with it in part. A senator asked about sources that are not useful, how to use them, and the variability in the timing of coastal fishing, that we must remember that these are pots. This is not assigned to every boat or ship, which makes work in the management of this situation quite different from the catchmark, where each agent is responsible only for its authority and has the authority to attend. But here it's all in one pot, and then, in part, it's a variable, almost Olympic fishing, until the hot tub is up. Thus, there may be, and there is, in fact, a much different law on how we steer a parish into the pots rather than on the rest of the fishing system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u44	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for his answers. It's just spray vision that I like to deal with a minister at the Senate Hall because we get quite a lot of inquiries about it. I wondered, and perhaps before I mentioned it to the minister, regarding this scale, these 650 pounds, that there is no room there. I wondered, " I am willing to reduce the risk of indiscriminate offenses that are not meant to be committed at all. ' Other than that, I agree with the Minister that these are definitely pots, but I think it's important for this 5.3% that if there's anything in these pots, they're used up every year to fit into the beach fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u45	A respectable president. I agree with that. A senator's use of these sources every year is very important, and the experience and an overview of how much it uses from the source shows that it has been fully used because of the fact that we have. Just moving between pots. I'm just gonna mention a move from the rest of the line integration into coastal fishing, etc., so the total amount at 5.3% of the pot has been new in recent years, fortunately. I agree with that. A senator may find it hard to catch a fin, up to 650 pounds [650 kg], but if there are any ways to develop flexibility in it without compromising the total amount or other such, it's fine, best. I trust the Committee to discuss that point. But I would point out that there may be a number of problems in how much space should be allowed for each individual. It may be difficult to limit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister to introduce us to this bill. It is not as if there were revolutionary changes, nor is it to be expected from this study. We would've wanted some basic changes, but that's not what we're talking about. These changes as a whole are of no importance, but they are important to the local community laws, for various areas of the country, and in that sense these changes are positive. I just want to talk about this part, 5.3% of our entire resources. It is opened up for modern development, which is due to the request of rural governments, including that the rural communities can use part of their community for various building projects, as many rural communities may not have been using these settlements at their disposal. Now these 5.3% are called steps to promote employment and settlement, and that's good, and I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister may have been shocked in how many cases this may be possible. Is this being done for experimental purposes important, but is it not important to attach this law to a longer period of time so that rural governments can make their own plans and work on building up in light of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u47	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Not surprisingly, when it comes to marine bones, when it is claimed here that these are not revolutionary changes, and they don't expect, and the Conspiracy wants it all to be different. Will the Conspiracy offer up the settlements? Counts 'em out. A senator that offers 5.3% of all available resources in the country? Or what ideas do we have? A senator of that, what are the good changes the Conspiracy wants to make in these matters? At the same time that this is all the same and not expecting anything else, he begins to talk about the new things in this matter, which are certainly quite many. We are making considerable changes in this, e.g. one of the changes that are undeniably controversial, of staging the pot to the law, so that the council will decide, not the minister. So move the power out of the minister's hand to the council, which has often been very controversial and incomprehensible, so you just put it out. Whatever it is. However, a senator mentioned the role of teamwork and research projects. The reason this is set for a short period of time is that we are trying to start a project that has been called on, especially from areas that are prepared to defend ourselves basedly, as given the opportunity to use the sources that have come out in ways that have not been done. The experience of this may be good, and then there will be a problem, and it will likely be a consideration of long - term fixation of such a procedure. But right now, I think we're supposed to take it slow because we're developing into a new revolutionary world, even though it is. A senator sees it in one word and admits in the other. [[The president calls.]] I am convinced that we agree on this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u48	Mr. President. I asked for an answer to a simple question from the highest. Minister, but not outcasts and misapprehension against the UN's policy in the fishing business. Of course, offering settlements is not to be considered. In the past, such slowness and modesty may move a person, as was the case with these matters. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on this variety and opportunity to recruit in the fishing field. In the initial drafts submitted in consultation, the ratio to line integration, one of the most disturbing words in Icelandic, was expected to be 10.22%, with a final outcome of 8.5. If a minister wanted to explain it. For other excellent change, these changes are in nine teams, and I don't want to belittle it, it's a provision for temporary shell and shrimping benefits that came to probably 2004. This is a provisional arrangement. What does that mean? One is that a harvest share of 1,482 codtons will be distributed. How is it found? [[The president calls.]] This is considered to be a complete compensation for those involved, i.e. The shell and shrimp boats involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u49	A respectable president. There's no way out of line. A senator, though a person responds to criticism that exposes something that you do not agree with. We do not agree, and there is nothing wrong with that. It was not my meaning at all to turn out of the words of reason. A senator, a long road away. I only answer when I feel that men would be preparing with some unhelpable fables. With the cross-checking and the shelling, it's kind of hanging out. I can't remember the formula for the calculation of shrimp and clams for 1,482 codton. The reason this is temporary is that because, as the bill is set, it is thought to be a single intervention. That is why this is made temporary. I realize that this is a very controversial part of the bill, and I'm sure the committee will be very careful about it. Because of the prehistoric nature of history, the Ministry has no choice but to present the matter in the way that he sees it. I believe that if you agree to this proposal, as presented there, it is made up of both honesty and honesty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u50	A respectable president. We're here to take a big step, if not just a nod, in this very important matter. As a minister came in, we have a considerable amount of money, up to 51⁄2 billion that we are assigned to. I agree that there needs to be a very clear separation of that and a clear message that we need to broadcast in the way we are going to do this. But then I'm wondering, because we're talking forethought, that we're changing it from ton to ratio, is there enough for you to see? There can be so much change in the ratio between years. First of all, I'm going to ask you about this rate, if a minister sees the regret in it. Secondly, the proposal of the bill involves a change in the way we are taking it for a longer time, i.e. Six years instead of three years. There's been talk of the social pot in the labor market, their distribution. Could there be a lack of confidence in it until the age of six? Is it not a little difficult to tie these decisions for such a long time if we are going to look at the reality of those who accept it? I was going to come to another show, but I'm gonna start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree on the ground with what. A senator said that these changes are considerable; she used the word nod. But this is how we look at things differently, and here comes a representative of the United States, saying that there are no revolutionary changes in the case that just aren't right for me. We're making very big, heavy, changes. The changes are focused on the fact that today's crisis in these very, very little pots. We're creating a set framework for this aspect of the fishing system, which is extremely important, it's about 5.3% of all resources in the country each time, a great deal of value. We're creating a specific frame. We're telling you what this is meant to do. We are setting this as a goal, and then we are entering the law to assess the results of the actions we have been in, and none of these are in current legislation. I can totally say that six years is a considerable length of time, we might want things to change faster than in six years. But after that, I was called, and I am not necessarily trapped in the idea that this is a sacred year. When we're talking about the espionage and securing the share, the advantage is that the change in the pot's fishing warrants will be the same as the advice from the NTSB and the decision of the whole country's fishing warrants. These changes simply follow counseling in the same way as decisions on fishing clearances each year. [[The president calls.]] In that respect, we can say that there is a measure of foreseeability in it, just the same principle of distribution in pots and other parts of the fishing business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u52	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. That's when I want to turn to the beach weather. We made significant changes in 2018, and they certainly weren't nice and did not slip through so easy. Many believed that coastal fishing was being shut down in areas around the country. But then it turns out that it has just fallen on good soil, and what a building agency put together on how things had worked out just fine. That's why I'm so surprised we're going to go back to the previous methodology in it, i.e. Unsecurity and Olympic fishing, as shown in the case of the two. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. I just want to sharpen that answer to a minister, if he thinks it's an improvement in going back to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u53	A respectable president. With the beach fishing, I don't agree that going back to all the factors we changed to 2018 is improving. Many of these changes, though only we call them one, have a good effect on the safety of those who are engaged in this trade. The aim of coastal fishing, however, is to strengthen and reside all over the country, clearly, and in that light have been very rigid. At the same time, we've increased our resources in coastal fishing. Then the change we made, to make it one pot across the whole country, will cause some areas to converge despite increased fishing grounds. It was no purpose for the coastal fishing system to shift the focus of the work in these seas from part to part of the country, and I'm calling for a review.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u54	Mr. President. I'm gonna get involved in this fishing business because it's high in my mind and it's been a long time. I have to say first, I'm not impressed with the case, but I believe there are some things we can do about it on a job committee, if that's the case, and I trust it to the highest level. Ministers will come to work on this matter with us members of Parliament. We're sure there's a warning on our bill in our left green. I may first come to the case as supreme. Minister and minister. A senator did some antiquities earlier, but it's the beach fishing. A great deal of work was put on better prospects for coastal fishing, better security, and equality, ensuring safety by installing them in the system of days. It took two years to get them to what they are now, i.e. 48 days in coastal fishing, 12 days each month, and not Friday, Saturday, or Sunday. That arrangement was leveled against groups, and experience has shown that it has worked out well. Those who were most alert to this system and thought that they would be badly out of line have reconsidered it, and they want to keep on warning that these 48 days will be guaranteed in terms of chance of hunting. I think it's our job to work on a professional committee that presented the case in the beginning to ensure that the amount of money will be guaranteed for these 48 days. That's why I don't like it if I attach this ratio of cut-offs into the bill. There must be a degree of flexibility within the fishing year between the factors in this social part of the fishing system, so that between years and years of fishing, the fishing process can take place. V.E.G. One minister noted that in some areas the number of fish has not been the same as some year before, but we can't guarantee by any system that each boat or fishing has the same number year by year. The changes in this matter are a fishing industry and that of a sailor. Of course, it is rocked by weather, fishing, and each one's goods. The biggest issue is that wherever they live in the country, all of them can rest 12 days each month during the four months, and that the beach pot is guaranteed enough resources to do so. Then you have to be flexible in your system. Coastal fishing is the system where innovation can occur today. They are actually the only window in the fishing system and therefore important to maintain that this window remains open to those who may have the potential to build up gradually by getting over the fish resources and then building up and using what is available, whether it is at the same time being a grizzzzly trap or when the mackerel is on the shores of the country, using what is available to trap the government's rent. The beach fishing system is close to our left greens, and we were its founders in our time, 2009. We will make every effort to strengthen it, not to rewind it, but to strengthen it even more. We want to see more resources entering the system, for it has been shown to strengthen these settlements and to have additive effects on other marine and other jobs in the parts of the world. There is also a review of generalised quadrupeds. I agree that this entire population needs to be stocked up. However, there is a question of how we can do this in the most efficient way to benefit from those who need it. It has been true over the years that even broilers have become involved in one way or another. Of course, the purpose of the settlement was not that it fell in the hands of large organizations that had sufficient resources but that of those who needed it would need support because the person in the country had become badly disfellowshipped. The purpose was to contribute to this government's receiving support for these smaller coastal areas. This part of the system certainly depends on a lot of money. Hence, it is important that support does not come from some bloc route in the hands of monumental contractors who have no need for support on the part of the State. That's why I can't imagine trying to simplify it, having it transparent, aiming at certain fishing instruments and a certain kind of size on boats and making sure that it's as resistant as it can be with an inference, whether it's inference to land or whatever. You can't force it down to as long as it's being discussed in this bill. It was good to have a good time. A minister mentioned that the number of years could be revised. I think it's a good idea we'll look at that on the Committee. Today, the arrangement is made so that every three years it is a pact proposal, and the General discusses the measures in the general population. Should this be extended beyond an entire terms period? Of course, at the time, there may be some things that might happen, and this would have been added to any agreements. Men cease to be made, men fall away, and what will happen to these agreements? Are they buying and selling? We do not want this social part of the fishing system to go in the same way into a submerged hosting system with exorcists. I don't think anyone's there. I just hope that people aren't there. Rather, they think of this general settlement as a source of support, which, of course, can be very different in terms of community law and the people who would agree to take advantage of it. He has been very controversial and has struggled with how he has been assigned, both in rural society and in part in the Department of Fishing. If we are reevaluating that part of the system, we need to land it so that guidelines are clear, clear, clear, and this great appeal in the form of support of free resources will land in the hands of those who have their resources to strengthen the individual settlements, that it is the best and support flows to the seas that have gone out of the food system badly and really need it. There is much to say. I think a controversial issue, as has been established regarding shrimp and shell reforms, has been examined by many whales. Councilmen and the highest. conferences over the years, and humans have never somehow managed to land it. But somehow it has to be done once and for all because improvements are not meant for eternity but must be completed in a reasonable way. Of course, all of this has merit for the future, so it needs to be done well. I'm not going to judge in advance whether or not this application will hold an all-time inspection. We'll just see how the reviews get done and if it's the right landing or if we're going to take some sort of rickety action together with the rest of the movement. To me, an arrangement for coastal fishing is the biggest case. I don't think it's an option to move it, but to strengthen it rather than to rewind it. It has been demonstrated that the Agency's report, which was a very thorough and professional committee, allowed to work for him, to want this flexibility, to be inside a system so that it could be assured of market access to 48 days, whether it came from a general rural area, from a line-up, or what it was. But I think it's very important to have this possibility. I don't think there's anything to rule out the fact that some kind of contract will be made in terms of innovation and a new thought in that subject. We know that rural society has been experimenting with deforestation. I don't think it would be unwise to look beyond the fact that he is bringing back to those who are really working to strengthen solidity, innovation, and increase the value in that area. I'm just interested in working with this thing, and hopefully we can finish it and make some changes, just as I've talked about here. We'll see how it works, but I trust it to the highest. A minister will be open to try to get the best of peace and agreement in this important matter, which is of great importance to many. We need to be careful that our work is well carried out. The small ones in these systems need to be taken care of as well. We must not forget to keep that watch small, for it is important for many communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. For the talk, a senator, chairman of a professional committee, Lilja Hyn Rafney Magnúsdóttir Island. I'd like to give a witness to the countermandment that we had on April 10, 2018, where I referred to the changes in fish management, changes in the coastal fishing system, concern of many since the smallest settlement and fractured settlements, especially in the North and East, that the change could be accompanied by the conversion of labor, a share of what we've seen in recent years, especially during the past year. I can't agree with what. A senator said that was his goal. In fact, the communities have become more difficult. So I want to ask you why. A senator as to whether it is normal for a professional committee to look at the viewpoint of communities and rural communities around the country on this subject. This is going to be a significant change to have, affecting the development of community development and the opportunities of the communities to earn money and to be truly sustainable. In this regard, I ask questions about the work of the Committee. I'd also like to ask why. A member of Parliament was given a special assessment of the impact of the changes, how they were during the last fishing year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u56	A respectable president. In my talk earlier, I mentioned that we were given an organization to report coastal fishing and how we have been able to do so. In the summer of 2018, a experiment was done, and in the summer of 2019, the system was established. It has been observed that these people feared that they would close these changes, but much more remained content with the changes after the two summers. I've seen a tablet over the catch of boats, which, of course, are different, it's not a code, you can't make sure the same boat gets the same catch year after year. It depends on fishing, depending on the person's goods and weather patterns. So these three variables control because they are fishing, depending on what each person can achieve in each calm and vary. The peak is 725 pounds [25 kg] of catch a day. We have to look to it. What stands out and has been discussed at the scene of this organization, the National Association of Smallboaters, is that the majority call for 48 days of secure income, when men are very happy, can also be calm when it is convenient, and they do not have to go out on road weathers or anything like that. So I object to the fact that this has been bad for some settlements, but I want to follow it firmly after it has to be secure for the 48 days. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is obvious that we disagree completely on this matter. Of course, it is not possible to ensure an individual sailor or an individual developer of a particular catch, but I call for the committee to determine the impact of the systems so that the system we create does not include the transfers between communities, either on coastal fishing or any other action there, some spontaneous transfers after the systems have been implemented. It's taken out like a dog. A senator, if I recall, was referring to a beach fishing period of 2018 and 2019. We do not have an assessment of the 2020 Coastal Fishing period, which provided the precise application of seamen and rural governments and local representatives, who were concerned that the change might result, although some of the changes made in 2018 were beneficial. Then I'd like to do this later. I'd like to ask who. A senator's assessment, whether or not there is any assessment before 2020. And then: What does the senator mean when it comes to guaranteeing loyalty for coastal fishing or additional resources? Where should they be taken from when ratios in different systems have been established? Is there more to them than is recommended? Where do they come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u58	A respectable president. In my speech earlier, I said that I was completely opposed to staging peddlers as here is. It's not like today it's stuck. Now they're fixed to this ratio, which I think is very bad, i.e. is that it is being stimulated. There has to be a flexibility in this system. It's a social system. It needs to be flexible. Today, the general ground conditions can be moved from year to year, but since the beginning of 2009, they have not always reached what was intended for that pot and cannot be moved from year to year. That's why I think it has to be flexible. It has been possible to move to a beach fishing pot that has not gone into linefalls. But this system must be flexible and not subjugated. I'm very into adding even more to coastal fishing because it has been shown to be a force for structure and development of the settlements. That's why I'm going to emphasize it. Hv. A senator speaks of being reassigned from one area to another. I've seen numbers of hunting and getting the biggest boats in coastal fishing have, for example. Be in a prime example. A senator, who's just really good. But before we changed this system, there was not much equal between parts of the country. Some parts of the country were given six days a month while others may have received 20 days or more. Was there an equalness then? No. That's why I think it's a match. But weather conditions will always control fishing and fishing, as well as individual goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney, the daughter of Magnúsdóttir for her speech and the highest. High minister for the speech. I was in another house, come running here, but I heard most of it all. There are many benefits in this matter. Another adjustment must be made in the treatment of the committee. I'd like to get to the beach weather, but I heard the senator talking about her worrying that we were taking a step backwards. We on the Committee were working with coastal fishing arrangements for 2018, and there was a great deal of solidarity and agreement that this would be done as it was then and that it would just come out perfectly well. The beach fishing system has been that fishing system over the years, which has brought us quite a deal on fishing in Iceland, I would say, but it can always be done and done better. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, about this concern that I share with the senator about going back into regional division, and now it's starting to delineate and move into a general rural park and such: Wouldn't it be better if the beach fishing got more into its share so that we can continue to keep it as open as it has been since 2018? It would be more likely that those 12 days of a month would cover the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u60	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm fine with that. A senator noted that the work on shore fishing has been parapolitic. That is why I feel that it is so important to maintain the success I had. Conventioners, on the opposite side and with different ties in different parts of the country, have worked together and tried to control this in the best possible way. I see now that we're actually going to end this up with a 48-day raise. That's really the only thing that stands out. It's like being in some snake game, and all of a sudden you just go down all the stairs and you're starting to start. I don't want this great work to be done, on the contrary, and with ties to all parts of the country, to be lost for nothing. That's why I think it's very urgent, as I've been saying, to increase markets in coastal fishing. Like what? A senator mentioned I think there is a way to make much more peace with the fishing system that these little people and recruits and smaller TVs, although small, have this possibility. It's not possible if we start making it all so much more difficult and open, as in this bill, just every day. Then I think that first the so - called Hobbitists come on weekends, who may be doing some other job. There's a lot of things in these things that I don't think they can't be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As far as I'm concerned, beach fishing can be around the country, and because we're talking about solidity and all of that, they've, in my opinion, created a greater population and a whole - souled place around the country than often and often the general crumbling of the country. That's why I was calling him. I'd like to see more in the beach fishing than I would like to see, but I'm sure, even though he could get more, we just have this 5.3% of the Department of Department to play cards. That's why I brought this question. But I have faith, because we have done well in the committee, working on these matters until now, that we shall prosper. I was in the senator's house again, and I didn't hear her straight answer to me about the idea of adding more to the beach fishing than to the settlement, because it has not been general peace over the years with him, although he is certainly thinking about it. Now there's a double quota there, both general and specific local graffiti to the fractured areas, so I agree to bring them work more than I have been. But I would like to have the senator answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u62	Mr. President. Yes, I'm afraid the beach fishing is more likely to be strengthened than much else in this social segment. Like what? A senator mentions that we have a special settlement that has an arrangement and has the potential to negotiate with an enterprise. Of course, this requires good thinking and careful action to make it really a means of building up. It's been a bit miscommunicative, unfortunately, but they're learning from experience. In some places it has gone very well, and in other places it may have been a form of reaction. Hence, after the selective settlement may not be so holy in my mind. I believe that there can be a ruined line integration that is now changing, a lot of boats with bait engines, and the times change in the materials, and some of the things that are going into the general rural area today would be better placed in coastal fishing, as it has shown that it flows to those parties and the settlements we want to support by social activities under which we want to support. I mentioned earlier in a talk that, unfortunately, a part of this general population has been affected by the efforts for which there is an abundance of food for which there is plenty of food. This is not a suggestion for generalised ground whales, and it has often been very controversial, since it has not been too clear to date.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u63	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill on deck. 626, 419, issue of law change No. 79/97, about fishing in Iceland's Fishland weekend, and law No. 116/2006, the management of fishing, the fishing management of gray breaks, sandwashes, and invertebrates. This bill suggests that the fishing market will be adopted on a gray platform, sandwashing in the whole fishing weekend, and seawater. In addition, there will be a law on the management of fish fish that allows ministers to assign financial resources to feed the local use stocks of the vertebrates so that specific harvest shares are introduced into each fishing area. The aim of a fishing management is to promote the protection and use of Iceland's user institutions, thus ensuring stable employment and inhabited by the country. Fishing of the main crops is controlled by the distribution of the market at the beginning of each year of fishing on the basis of the ship's fishing sector. Such fishing management has proved helpful in considering how easy it is to control the quantity and practicality of the article. In this way sustainable fishing has been ensured, motivated by innovation, by people trying to get as much of their resources as possible, and contributed to a large increase in the quality of the resource. Fishing in several crops is still controlled by the target limit. In recent years, certain challenges have been faced regarding the control of grey - free and local vertebrate fish, and the management of these species has been criticized for its indiscriminate and competitiveness, that the fishing is not predictable enough for those who practice them. With the bill this is planned to fix the above failings, and I will take a closer look at the individual components of the bill. It is suggested that the fishing program be adopted on a gray patch, as well as some changes in the law required to adapt the direction of gray-free fishing to the target management. First, there is a suggestion that fishing laws be added temporarily, where ships will be placed in a cod section in a gray patch. It is suggested that gray patch fishing experience be determined from three of the best six fishing periods between 2014 and 2019 on a ship's license. Second, 2 percent of the maximum resources in a gray space will be put to ensure scattered interparties. Third, to be authorized by a minister to exclude a grey leaving provision for fishing by law, the market situation in order to avoid being justified in catching fishing. Fourth, it is recommended that local fishing areas be determined by regulations in case of circumstances that would be desirable for regional grey - free fishing. The bill suggests that there will be a preliminary law on the management of fish fishing that measures the sharing of sand charcoal in the whole fishing weekend. Today, sandmelon fishing is free from the Snæfells of the north to the Eystrahorn but is subject to a fishing regime outside that area. It is suggested that the cohesive share of sand charcoal will be recalculated at the beginning of the fishing year 202/1/2022 in this way: 85/100 parts according to the registered collections of each fishing vessel in sandwashes at the beginning of the fishing year 202/022 and that 15/100 parts, according to the fishing experience of each ship outside the fishing grounds in the sandwaters during the year 2017/2018 and 2019/2020. In recent years there has been an increase in interest of fishing for vertebrates, such as sea oedema and sea urchines, and now advice is provided for three areas of urchinia and for eight areas of sea oedema. It can also be noted that counselling for the bait field is also provided for two separate areas. Since local labour management is not expected by local labour markets, the bill suggests that a minister be authorized to distribute a labor share to fish local farms of the vertebral species so that special collections are introduced to each hunting area. It is also suggested that fishing management laws be added on temporary matters, as it is recommended that at the beginning of the 2021/2022 fishing year, the independent harvest share of seawater resources should be put in each fishing area defined in the prevention of sea oedema. A respectable president. I am very happy that this bill has come to be for material treatment at the General Assembly. All of us know that in recent years there have been changes in fishing control in gray space. I have expressed my view, both with gray-willers and senators, that I am prepared for a total of changes in the bill I recommend here in order to make an even greater sense of the goal of the bill. I mention, for example, the rule of 2% of the maximum share department, which is the nature of which that number may need to be revised. I know that a greater proportion of those who have been fishing for grays in recent years support the bill, and I mention to support that recently I received a statement from 244 gray-colleaguers who give me full support. This is a greater proportion of those allowed, and 76% of the graycompeters took sides. Others were neutral or opposed to the bill. I think it is clear that there is a general agreement on the bill, first and last among gray people who practice this trade even if they never all agree. I hope this case will be concluded before the coming season, which will begin within a relatively short period of time. A respectable president. I've traced the main points of this bill, and I want to refer in other respects to the series of articles that follow, which contains a detailed discussion on its contents. After a discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u64	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister here has issued an order to change the fishery-fishing law in Iceland's Fishland weekend and the Law on Fishing Control. They're about gray, sandwash, and invertebrate. He made it impertinent and was convinced as his hope and direction. I'd like to focus on one of those three fish, the gray patch. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: What is the need for this, and what is the vision that determines the point of goodbye? Furthermore, were there other advantages evaluated before this one? But is the Minister not thinking that by this change he will be exploiting that authority, contrary to the stated purpose, as has happened in the large fishing system? The grey - free fishing is special in a very large way. It has regional, regional, regional, and cultural boundaries. Doesn't a minister think that there are fewer hands and the same things happen, as in the big system? I wanted the best. Perhaps a minister will deepen this reflection a little?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a massive counterargument and well thought about it. He asks: " What is the need, and what is the vision behind it? I started a team of selected top economists along with the specialists in the case that even gave me the answer. This proposal. They've gone through all of this. In addition, this has been a long discussion among graycompets. That is why I said yes that others, of course, had been considered, and it would have been a lot of talk. Right away. A senator asks: " Isn't there a danger of this gathering on few hands? It's business with a permit. A limited number of boats can go into gray-free fishing, 449 boats. There are only boats on this hunt in 1997. Despite this number, only 209 boats were fishing during the last season, and the number of boats dropped by over 100 in ten years. So the article is shrinking, and those men who practice this call for more awareness of what they are doing. I just feel like we're just trying to do it and meet them. These are those who know the situation best, know exactly where the blacks are and what needs to be improved. The 244 gray-flops call for handling this project, as shown in the bill while 209 boats are in the sea. [[The president calls.]] Will not the council respect these views and try to meet them? I say yes, of course we will. And I trust others to think in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u66	Mr. President. Gray - free fishing is an important part of the economy in certain territories. In many cases these scattered settlements, including those that have been hit by shock, are being developed. due to compression in the fishing field. Complaining can be the most aggressive of those who are affected by illness. I can only see that the current systems could be tailored in various ways, e.g. by opening up together, and increasing the awareness of the financial resources before hunting. Of course, you could also discuss ideas about regional dishes. We will discuss a significant need to increase the interest of this article, and I agree that the money needs to be available, and it needs to be acceptable and predictable, as far as possible. That is why I ask: " Were other advantages carefully evaluated? Then I would like to ask: Has a social assessment of its effect on the world's systems like this? This may result in changes in some vulnerable areas. Regarding the fact that this will be done on the basis of sustainable thinking, the highest was discussed. Minister for the current fishing system in his first speech. Of course, he calms it down and thinks it's self-sustaining. I believe that's all there is to it. Economically, it may work that way. Environmentally? Possibly, probably. [[The president calls.]] Regarding the social impact, we all know how this affects the communities. This has had a tremendous effect there. Therefore, this is not a sustainable sector according to the United Nations definition. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister may define this in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u67	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator doesn't consider this sector to be sustainable as it is today, what will lead him out of this other way than to get the fishing government to the place where all the experts in the marine road count well, i.e. that expert advice and the use of fish stocks should be combined that it is intertwined? I believe we should follow the advice we get to maximise the profits. The experience in the past few years is that there has been an average 20% passing from counseling, plus or minus. We are not making wise use of this, sometimes over, sometimes beneath. The past season experience should teach all of us that the management of this situation is not good, since a minister is forced to use a certain section of sailors almost violence to maintain the fishing within the counsel published. I don't think people are gonna hang in this old system and talk about it as if it's really great. What are the new ones about it as it has been? None. What kind of fear is being brought here that we're going to put this in a unit, that people start selling licenses? They're buying and selling today. It is a limited group that can be caught today, and it is not even a full - time catcher. What are they afraid of? [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking, "What are you afraid of?" We owe answers to those who do not trust to deal with the questions raised by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u68	A respectable president. This is where we'll discuss a bill about changing the fish-fishing law in Iceland's Fishland weekend and the government of fishing, the fishing regimes of gray, sandcuffles, and the invertebrate. I'm going to focus on the gray patch. The grey-free fishing board has long been out of the market but this bill is designed to control it, to sharpen the fishing regime, and thus to make the quota. The fishing regime has been in such a way that fishing on a gray patch is forbidden except by special fishing courses published by a Fishing Room. Then, because of the risk of marine mammals at concentrations, the layering of rice is banned in several areas. There is no question about the need for fishing control over these fish, such as others, so that we do not walk too close to the ground. The methods used for fishing have advantages and flaws. Those who speak to the present system feel that it ensures less access to fishing that once again has a good social impact. Follow-up teams of GDPs say that it allows for more awareness in the fishing process and to become more balanced and meditated on instead of the race caused by the current control. In many places, the altruism has been practiced in many parts of the country, and it is evident that this fishing has become a major part of the development and has remained more vulnerable to the weaker settlements, such as those in the beach, in the Valley of Burgurs, and in the Gamins River. For these settlements, it is of utmost importance to have access to grey - free fishing. When the bill was in consultation in the fall, there were several views. One of these appeared in a review from Halldór Rúnar, a son of Stefánsson, at Thorsla. He believes that compression will be inevitable by the greeting of the fish, as if in a short period of time in other wounded species. Compulsion will lead to less ability for recruits who now see a chance of acquiring a gray license and sharing in coastal fishing, with the intention of building viable business, if there is a requirement for buying fossils in a gray space. Then he also says, by permission of the president: ▪ As matters are now being developed, there are actually two systems that enable recruits to develop a structure, i.e. A beach fishing and a grey-free hunt. Signed feels that it is fast enough that one of these systems is now to be taken and checked, thus reducing the ability of young men to act. It has been signed on a gray patch for decades, and it has been seen that the gray patch population is swinging rapidly from year to year. It will not quickly be seen how to use the cooling process to control hunting on such a swinging stock. At the very least, it seems signed to realize that a grizzzlet greeting requires a lot of research, and it is not impossible that it will lead to overfishing in bad years. It is also important to consider the viewpoint of a secular speaker who makes coherence. It says that increasing compression would be worst for smaller partners in processing, deforestation, and communities. Because of words at the top. Ministers of the past, I would like to point out that women are also in gray business, and maybe they just haven't been asked when they were looking for advice on how to do this. [[Up front.]] Yeah, I can only repeat that I was talking about women being out of college too. Maybe they haven't been asked. [[Up front.]] The bill refers to the need to ensure the spread of the share and suggests that 2% of the maximum resources will be set in a gray space. It's a question of whether it's too high. This is a major change that will not be taken back so easily. That's why it's important to be careful. Fishing must be controlled in one way or another, but whether this is the most successful way is not necessarily certain. When the bill passed through a panel of candidate candidates, I warned about it and made the following statement: A telecommunication project is expected to be picked up by the fishing program on a gray break. There has been insufficient evidence to set the catch target on a gray patch. The smaller areas of land are built on the mixed fishing crisis of small boats, and this could not only make innovation difficult for the article as well as the risk of compression in the rice fishing industry and then at the expense of my settlement. The bill assumes that the maximum proportion of total share division should be only higher than 2% and may be less effective in preventing compression in this article and that salutation is problematic and complex if there is equal equality between communities and outputs. The evidence has been used to indicate that the average catch of cod is a problem and could result in failure to do so could damage the whole seabed, where the U.S. authorities have issued a prohibition on the import of marine products in which marine mammals are caught. - It's a natural sensitive and an important factor. It's certainly a concern, but it can't be seen that goodbyeing is the beginning and the end of that problem and has been sought no other way to work on that problem. There are other fishing methods that could be implemented with the aim of reaching out for the problem and that grey-free fishing will be provided for the construction of sustainable fish stocks. A respectable president. I believe that there is a greater need for a better consideration of the effect of a decomposition on a gray patch before going into such massive changes to the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u69	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss these matters with you about fishing on a gray patch. They've been in the middle of the last semester, like the highest. A minister came in and looks who he is. We've been on the left green side of this case, and we're not at the head of the party for the bidder of a gray patch. It has been in progress for a long time so that we feel that there is a significant change in the social part of the system, and it all goes on to a great deal of compression, that it does not work out compared to recovery experience and criteria during the three-year period as high as possible. Minister mentioned, 2014 constituted 2019. We fear that many will fall off the train and may become tight, perhaps standing after some 50 boats, and others will sell themselves out of the article when they see that the fishing is not in harmony with their standards. I don't think it's a good development, but it's very bad, because it supports each other, what is within the social network - coastal fishing, the specific cohesive, and the general problem of eutrophication, gray-free fishing, mackerel fishing, when it comes to opportunities - and when someone is being deposed, there is a danger of the fall of the sentence, each piece of the chip. V.E.G. A minister admitted that 244 gray - eyed sailors had brought a signing list to him on these matters. I received the information from the relevant authorities who made this signature list that there were not individuals behind it but that there were three permissions that would appear to have three signatures. I think that's right, these are not 244 people. They're 244 persons, and then there's a lot of people behind the fact that many people have more than one license. But I'm fine with that. It's only natural that opinions vary, as do many other factors. It was also agreed at the main meeting of the National Association of Submarines, not going to a check on a gray patch, but taking other routes. I think it's important that these routes also be checked at this job, and we'll see what comes out of it. We know that at Greenland, the fishing is controlled in a different way, that's where it's divided into areas, and it's divided into areas. We have directed these fishing for many years within the advice of a World Health Care Agency by day - making system. It has remained market, market prices, and the article has been in good cooperation with the water management agency on export, when to begin, and when to slow down because market prices are not favorable. I think we just need to take a good look at this. Last summer was not typical of how the fishing has started in the last summer, and it began until it was customary, starting March 10. The yield was good on the northeast corner of the country that very many in other parts of the country did not succeed in starting fishing or at high speed. Of course, no one wants to see it happen again. Therefore, the next season needs to be in time for fishing, and it needs to be done in good conversation and cooperation with the article itself, whether you are going to split up areas by giving a volume in each area and having some flexibility in it or not. We know that the fishing starts in different early parts of the country, and I think it's possible to reach a good conclusion on this matter even if we don't get to the point of saying goodbye. This calls for further research, as shown here on various other species that I believe need to examine better; but there is no research to make decisions on these issues. We too need to look to a foundation, as this chair has discussed many times recently. That's important. It's not just part of our culture, it's part of a particular community. Similarly, we do not want to see that all the gray - eyed people disappear from areas where they can no longer hunt because some members decide on some basis to sell themselves out of the system. You're absolutely right at the highest. Of course, a minister to a license to sell and sell, but not as much as stocks will be on if a few people are forced to join in. It has been said that there may be 50 boats if you don't pay to go fishing, if you may even get 15 tons of money. I think we need to take a look at this and get to us the members of this town who have a interest in how to protect and the laws of the community. We need to listen to all such viewpoints. It's hot and controversial, and we just have to be senators to work with that it's always hard when very different viewpoints occur. Still, we have to take the matter to material discussions. I can agree with the highest points. Minister on it. Then we'll just see how it works. But to me, eating is bad at the part of the system we've classified as a social part of the system as a counterweight to the majority of the source and cooling point, looking up at all the tremendous convergence that has occurred there, as well as in the chisel market system. This has not proved to be well - founded or built - up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-20-46.u70	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here on the matter. In this regard, I would like to mention, because fear of teamwork and challenges have been made regarding other benefits, etc., for years other benefits have been observed carefully and have been examined for years. Those who have been doing this article for a long time are in my mind strongly agree that this is really the best thing that is in the position that this article has enjoyed over the past many years. I think we can totally agree that the sentence on how unacceptable this system has been is best established as to the decline in the system itself. The number of boats is down there. The average is about 15 per year, about 150 gray-sized boats have disappeared from the system in the past ten years. The church's drawn a lot of it. And then they're celebrating and they're trying to hold onto it. I can't figure out where the ideas have come from that change, if it's going to go, so that there's only 50 boats out there. I'm not here to tell you the number of people involved. I'm just saying, based on the fact that the boats are 209 today, and based on the same trend that has been for the past ten years, it's going to be the difference between 50 boats, if that continues, when there were 200 boats in the last season. This bill is a call from the hunters. I'd like to bring it up here because of what you're doing. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir asked if there were no women in this group that yes, there are women, at least as I have read this signature list. I don't have any explanation for that as a dog. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir mentioned earlier how he was composed. I don't know them. According to this document, I know why. A senator has received, 449 gray leaves in the country. Of these, 244 were enthusiasts allow to agree that this would be the best thing to do, the best it could ever be done. I just can't figure out how we should be able to relate to these people who know how and do what's best. I just want to say that, after another ten years, 50 boats will remain, based on the way the trend has been under way for the past ten years. I'm just saying, obviously there's nothing to do with it. Grey-punchers know the most about this environment in decades of work. They have claimed it for themselves, and I agree with the emphasis they have made when speaking to this matter, that changes lead to dangers from fishing, better fishing equipment, and boats. There is more space to plan for itself, reduction of oil consumption, number of nets in the sea, and thus damage to nets, thus reducing the number of ghost nets in the sea. I believe that those who breast-feed the environment in Icelandic politics agree with these views and add their weight to the scales to make this work. In the present system, it has long been that illness or failures on the boats or unforeseen occurrences have diminished the capacity of gray-floors to attend because these are the days they have had. They think it's gonna happen to fall above them. Several other factors are included, which I trust will be discussed in the Committee. To me, the big issue in this is to give those who are involved in this business a greater chance of creating more valuable things for themselves and society all, in the form of funds, and much less safe to come up with the water, and in any way more the association with the resource will be responsible if this remains in place of the waste and bad associations that are involved in the present system.
