ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u1	Borist has a letter on the reinstatement. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfeldddóttir calls it again. 487, No. Thirty-eight, for the cost of appeal to the conclusion of the lower branch of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u2	Mr. President. It was scary to know that the ferry Bis in the middle of Breamfjord, the engine's falling asleep, and the situation has not yet been fully controlled. It's an old ship that doesn't meet the demands of our time and only one machine, no backup. After Baldur broke down last night, all roads broke out and from the south side of the West. The neck of a rock was shut, and Biluddal has not been flown for two days. This happens at the same time that the ferry Baldur is broken out on the fjords with people and goods on board. What is one of the worst of these things is that Baldur also broke down for the last summer and according to our information for the same reason. Local people have called for governments to do everything in their power to ensure that new ships are replaced by Baldur. I'm sure it's necessary. It is not possible to offer passengers and crew safety to those who trust in this vital transport. Earlier this week, the person standing here received the exact answer from the highest level. Secretary of Transport on Baldur's issues. I thought it was a good reason to ask a minister what the authorities were planning on in these matters. A minister's response to this most recent inquiry at the council said that the contract is being extended to other players who are running Baldur, who are doing quite well. A minister's answer to my question about possible renewal of the present ship shows that as long as the ferry meets the available criteria, e.g. with care, if it's the operator's choice of the ship that's best for the project. But the objective of the government in this regard is not high or clear. It is clear that as soon as possible, ships will continue to cross the British farm and on a new ship.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u3	A respectable president. Today, my last day is working for the people in this house. For this reason, I would like to discuss the problem involving a breach between a council and a nation. Recent research shows that trust in the Council is more than 30%, which is not enough at all. We are here on behalf of the nation, but much of it doesn't trust us. It is not up to the people to solve this problem. It is up to the Council to improve this trust, to build this relationship that is the foundation of our work at the Council. It's not for the generals to know about this failure and just shrug their shoulders and pretend they don't understand what's upstairs. There must be a rethinking of how government and government opposition will improve the procedure of the council in order to build trust and to be here fully and sound in the hands of the people. The people chose us. We are in this privileged position because of her, and we are under obligation to show her honor by being responsible for our conduct and actions. Last night I heard from a voter that it didn't matter what happened here in this house because those in charge never take responsibility for their actions. Is it surprising that the majority of the people did not trust the Council? But then, my fellow citizens, it's up to us in the next election not to vote for people who have become aware of the repeated lack of judgment and corrupt behavior on your scene. It's not that all politicians are guilty of this. On the contrary, there are many good people around here who work with honesty and sincerity. The time has come for the independence party to go, and there is nothing healthy about the fact that one group has so much authority for so long. The democracy is remarkable, but it can take place, and it needs to be thought of the diversity of the menu. We deserve better democracy. Finally, I suggest that our new constitution should be laid down on the first, put down the Father's Empire, burn the system to the ground, and build up again from the viewpoint of users, and, of course, that the members of the II Parliament's meeting are usually open. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u4	A respectable president. In the middle of the Covid pandemic is the highest. Health Minister in a war with physical therapists, speech pathologists, and nursing homes. Medical physiotherapy lists are increasing, and the result is that insurgents in medical institutions will increase with the related costs. Children and older citizens are on a long wait list for the assistance of speech pathologists, and the result is diminished communication and the future of the children is even put in complete uncertainty by the government. After all, there are families and people who suffer without cause. Their quality of life is greatly impaired, hence, with the ability to live as normal as possible. There, the government can be at war. But why is she not at war when dealing with medical information in judicial cases? Also available is financial status of individuals. The government is not at war to eliminate gambling machines. There are 900 slot machines in the whole country, 81 of them in one place in Reykjavík. It's a casino, isn't it? 52, in one place, in Kopavogi, and next to 32 others. 84 in Hamburg, Kópavogi Is it social resources, or is gambling? The most remarkable thing about all of this is that in Hafnarfjörður, there are about 100 boxes, few on Seltananes, few in Mosfellsville but, wonders and wonders, not one in Gardourtown in 2018, not one. Why? Why is there no card box in Parkville? Is that not what we should ask ourselves? Why don't we see to it that we pick up what Garden town's doing, wipe out slots? We're supposed to go to the Garth Building and make sure there's no slot machines. There's nothing but casinos when there's about 100 boxes in the same place. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u5	A respectable president. The ferry Baldur floats on the British bus with less than 30 people within a table. Weather conditions have been challenging, but now a patrol ship and a tow boat are at the ferry, and they will land, leaving passengers in full port after a 24 - hour journey. It's a three-hour trip or less. The ferry Baldur has been called the bridge to the West. It has played an important role in transport at the quarter, and it has especially been an important link to southern Western winters, where transportation has been a challenge. Yesterday, all roads were shut down in the West, where pagans were unable and flying down. This theme is familiar to winters, and the insecurity of transportation is totally unacceptable. While major construction projects are being done on the West, the process over British soil will be necessary because it will take time to make road improvements. Throughout the years, Rockt's neck becomes a transwarp in winters, and so it is essential for both human and freight transport. Fish farming on the West is increasingly calling for export transport by the ferry. There's delicate fresher things involved, and it's important to have safe transport at the quarter. The ferry is also an important tourist service, both in the British and in the West. Today, the ship has long been out - of - date for this service. There is only one main engine in the ferry, the vessel is suitable for poor modern transport, a bioavailability is lacking, and the ship is in time, although only for safety reasons. The Kingdom is involved in the shipping business and accepts the current contract until May 2022 or one more year. We can thank the forethought that things were worse this time, and hopefully everyone would be able to make their way back home when the ferry broke down. But we must act quickly and find a ship that relieves Baldur, both during the repair and in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u6	Mr. President. Now reports are coming up that the Danish government plans for the coming days to tell us how they plan to cover the treatment programs and set specific dates for it. In the meantime, there can be a government - controlled issue on the part of a local assembly and nation. Both the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. By this time, health ministers have complained that the majority of the people will have been vaccinated for the past year; in fact, the majority of the people have recently been spoken of. Surely we can demand that those in authority speak clearly about the basis for this declaration. That matters, Mr. President. This is important for employers so that they can organize the building work ahead. It is relevant for the job life, which is partly attached to the axiotherapy measures. That's what counts most for tourism. From a medical point of view, it is important that governments address the problems they have created in this regard. Mr. President. These substances will cause as much uncertainty to be eliminated. Thus, when Janssen's vaccine has been authorised in Europe, when it will be expected to deliver it here, which is a major purchase. Just as the Denmark government has announced, a clear policy must be set on the target for the development of vaccinations and associated with the reduction of preventative measures. The job life is waiting for a clearer policy in these areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u7	Mr. President. In the United States, rural communities have laid off agreements with the State because of the treatment of nursing homes that seem to have been funded on the part of the State. It has been observed that rural society has paid considerable money through the nursing institutions, which otherwise were used for other services in the local community. Civil society has spent up to eight months in non-communicative negotiations with the State and has been assured by the State of the time that it would ensure that the rights and ideals of staff would not be impaired, but would be used in accordance with the rules of communication, which were precisely designed to protect employees and activities. The government is not obliged to abide by these laws, but the state has freedom of agreement and is permitted to abide by the rules there, and it was promised. After eight months the mayors were in the Faraway and Westlands each announced their meeting last week and announced that they had all their employees, a total of some 140 persons, and that the work would be advertised. The government's representatives refused to make any promises that the current staff could expect the work. It was a surprise to local leaders, who had repeatedly been told that the rights and rights of staff would not be limited to contracts. Half a month is in place, and this is the case with employees and members of the household. When advertised by the government, at least Ten days must pass before hiring and therefore the operation is upset by the administration of the government. Mr. President. The country has an unprecedented unemployment problem, and we in the United States have repeatedly called for action on the part of the government. This command by the government, to divulge 140 employees, mostly women and non - Israelites in sensitive areas, is irreverent irresponsibility from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u8	Mr. President. I want these teams to discuss electrical transport systems to the Southnes and its safety, especially with regard to the earthquakes that have taken place on Smokenes during the third week. There is no question about the need to strengthen the electrical transport system to Southnes. However, there has been a debate over how not to carry the energy, whether to put on a new airline or a ground cord. These disputes have lasted for many years, and they must say, as it is, that the government and the Landsnet have kept a bad grip on matters. There were governments, including the U.S. ... arescuewithauthority and it's still in a hurry. In preparing new electric transporters, there are a number of factors to consider, and the security factor is greatly weighed. The earthquake cycle of the past few weeks on Rhinenes and the potential eruption raises questions as to whether a transport system to Southnes could be compromised and whether the current line line line area is considered suitable for earthquakes. Ideas about cables between Straumsvík and Southnes are not new. In view of recent events, there is good reason to examine seriously the possibility of these events, and especially since scientists believe that the Smoke One is on his way into a new era of earthquakes, which could last for decades. Mr. President. I believe that governments will naturally seek the Landsnet that they will already be working on a sea cable repair plan to the Southnesian population.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u9	A respectable president. I would like to ask those who hear this: Would you like to introduce a slot box to your closest mate as a means of supporting a good subject? When was the last time you went to the arcade to strengthen a good subject? If you have not recently done so, how do you justify this means that important community activity is financed? Did you, a respected president, know that 70% of the money management industry in Iceland comes from people who are committed to serious gambling, serious gambling, and compulsive gambling as a disease? The fact is, a very small and delicate group in the community is promoting gambling machines in Iceland. This group has no place. There are few treatments, and there is no clear vision from the government. Is e.g. Was it justified to finance Iceland's University with money from sick gamblers? During the week, a double meeting was held on the welfare committee I wanted. The second part of the meeting was open with the Ministry of Health, Justice and Education and Culture. This was a useful meeting and enlightenment on the situation. And the situation is bad. It is important that good institutions in our society do not have to rely on such funding. This business model is a time error, and this immoral situation is the responsibility of all of us. We're all responsible for this position. I could see in my spirit that patients with other illnesses were being damaged in this way. Whether we should stop preying on sick people does not depend on how we manage to find other means of financing for these people. These factors are independent of each other. I'd like to commend the U.S.A. for losing out on this operation, and I hope more will follow. Monitoring the operation is involved, and even if it's legal that it should be clear and strong, it's not. [[The president calls.]] The legal environment surrounding this is broken. And I'm asking, Mr. Honorable President, could the Icelandic state possibly be subject to harm? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u10	A respectable president. Our mind is with the inhabitants of Southnes these days, hoping that the present earth - shaking effects will not have serious consequences there. At the same time, arrangements and backup must be available. Thus, once again, we have been directed to the need to have a safe reserve airport outside the southwest corner. There is a need for construction at the Akureyri airports and different Egls so that they can serve as reserve airports in times of trial. Last year the decision was made to expand air bases and airports at Akureyri Airport. The government's special investment initiative as a result of the economic crisis of Covid was determined to finance the projects. At a meeting in the National Marketing Office less than a month ago, representatives of Istavia found that projects were in progress, practical implementation of ports and designs, and expected to complete May/June 2020. This will be the final assignment of a new flight crew. There is a need for a malabundation of runways at Egls sites and for the construction of airloads or additional airports at the side of the field, which would have more practical use than that. Less than a year ago, the provision of transport programs was expected to come from an investment campaign, but Istavia financed a tarmac. The economic effects of Covid have an effect on the Istavia programme, but none of these projects can be hesitated to implement. These airfield implementation plans must be followed. Istavia, who drives the airport system, is responsible for the progress of tasks. At any given time, the requirement must be made that there be an analysis of the need for airport construction, an assessment of costs for implementation and priorities. Istavia must now make good use of the time to provide care for the backup system and to make the best use of it before it returns to its normal routine. Most indicate that there will be a large amount of travel after Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u11	V.E.G. President. And there may be a sharp lump of iron as a pot, and it shall stand in a good place. I'm going to be the third senator at this speech session to talk about the ferry Baldur, now at sea, in the third time in three years. Here on January 17th, I spoke about Baldur. and mentioned my concern about the condition of this process and also spoke of increasing the number of trips that have actually been made to meet the greater need for transport from trucks across the shore. But now Baldur's out at sea, broken, and they're getting ready to drag him ashore. He's been running since yesterday. It's a 44-year-old ship with the only main engine that's actually forbidden to be involved in these things; he's on the other hand with this equipment. This machine doesn't have any parts, and it's a very bad situation. I urge the government, the secretary of transportation, the road type and management to now sit down and prepare for a new ferry, and immediately. You can't live with this anymore. Now, as mentioned in earlier speeches, the Rock's neck is unable. We know how the Gufudal Bay is, and we know the pressures of increasing food production, salmon farming, and fishing fishing in the West, and passengers may not be able to travel by ship that breaks out in the middle of the sea. It's a very dangerous case to have such a ship on trips.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u12	V.E.G. President. Through public cluster policy, we promote new jobs and economic growth, especially with regard to changes in digital and green solutions and cycles. Strategic development and development as a innovation tool is a development process. We discussed the report and the policy it holds yesterday, a respectable president, but the strategy and implementation are still ahead. I want to emphasize what needs to be done to continue in these areas. First of all, the cluster environment needs to be carefully charted and the possibilities identified. Second, the existing supportive environment, the fund system and funding, the inquisitors, the research and the way to identify what needs to be added. Third, policy development has to be implemented. The fact is that cluster growth and cluster development support are and have not been sufficiently targeted, for example. The Northern countries and the European Union. Classes are to spring from the needs of industry and on the grounds of society. It is especially in the early stages of a mall that they need professional and financial support, guidance and training, services and knowledge structure, certification procedures, support for foreign relationships, especially those that are referred to as superclasses that link companies and industry to future companies and capitals and links to research sites and university communities. The scientific village in Watermoom suggests such potential for biotechnology and health. We must recognize the arrival of the most respected government president and intend to form government support. Last night, I felt that the discussion brought it up, and I trusted it to the highest level. Minister and government follow this course closely.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u13	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has provided a bill on currency. The matter has not caught much attention, but it still contains much news for many reasons. The biggest news, of course, is that the General's request confirms that a dollar is a currency of a kind that can be safely trusted. Thus, it is necessary to have a set of measures in order to try to avoid the damage it can cause. Of course, it's a great news, but it's a great deal for them that here is fully accepted by those who are the most committed to the value of the crown that it cannot perform the role that currency must be able to play in a free and open economy without extensive intervention and possession. Another report is that the Federal Bank is entrusted with vast power to employ a extensive currency pot without the arrival of the General Assembly. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance spoke to the bill, saying that he had hopes of changing the focus of the economic situation made it necessary for us never again to resort to this emergency. It's in the same breath that he says the independent money policy is not compatible with free and unbounded flow of capital. Mr. President. I'm sorry. I think the highest hopes. A minister in these matters is not worth much just because his attention is on capitalism rather than on money policy. Here, the General simply has to act. This bill must be examined with extreme criticism, since much is involved here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u14	Mr. President. After nearly a year's government had been pointing to illegal and harmful subjugation of Iceland's e - mails on package deliveries, an increase was noted. The subsidies have, as it has been repeated in the media, damaged the management ground of the competitors, small distribution companies around the country, and, in addition, led to the loss of Iceland e-mails made to taxpayers by special financial contributions to the company. The administrative part here at the council has had absolutely no regard for this position, and unfortunately it has become a success in the administration of the European Commission, which is made up of members of a political party. So this resulted in a recent meeting at the end of the last year. Today's newspaper reports that in a meeting report from December 7, the European Commission has criticized former directors for violating the approval of the Index and not informing the management in accordance with the approved society. This reaction to the management of Iceland is caused by a slight criticism of one member of the board of directors, Tómas Möller, representing the Management Board. Today, too, the morning newspaper reports that according to a meeting report from November 30th. if Tómas Möller was asked to obtain an analysis of all the changes in currency and repeatedly that they should be placed in charge. Mr. President. The last news is that Tómas Möller has been removed from the European Commission at the main meeting of the European Union this Friday. During this entire series of events, we can see a manifestation of the worst of government conservative groups; intolerance to objective criticism, lack of respect for government funds, and indifference for the importance of competition. These have the expected different categories in the administrative part of the government, and the result is some type of left independent group. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, that is not a compliment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u15	Mr. President. On March 8, during the International Battle Day of Women, nine Icelandic women came forward and announced that they were going to sue the European Court of Human Rights for violating their right to the righteous treatment of sexual violence involving them. It is clear that the period of treatment in the justice system is most urgent when sexual abuse is involved. So it was shocking to see the highest. The Minister of Justice draws up Jón Steinar Gunnlaugsson, a controversial party horse with opinions and careers when it comes to the case of sexual abuse, to further improvement in the legal system. However, he and the minister seem to disagree about whether he should make reforms for sexual abuse, showing the problem, which is hard to understand, so that the progress of Jón Steinar is more urgent than promoting the credibility of the legal system. Mr. President. It is incredibly important to attack right away for an act of sexual abuse, and this is hardly the way. There is no forwardness or ambition in the litigation of a series of pensions that make themselves the center of all cases. It's not really about Jón Steinar Gunnlaugsson. It's not about him. It's about the actual improvement in the treatment of matters, the weightiest, the most vulnerable and the most difficult for women, children, and other victims of sexual abuse. I challenge the highest. Ministers showing that she is really serious about wanting to make the necessary improvements. And at that job, I will not lie on my team to assist and help with the ministers' reforms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u16	A respectable president. It was good that things did not get worse when the British home bus Bistur was severely damaged by the storm last night on the British Express, along with passengers and trucks and other valuable cargo. Yesterday, the ferry could not be moved to port and last night 28 people slept on board and including children, just south of the Breiðjordur Islands at the dead price. No wonder we senators are calling attention to this today. Sadly, such things can happen, and they have repeatedly been pointing to the insecurity of having only one main engine. The responsibility and control of the authorities is great in the case of as important a part of southern Western transport as the ferry cruises. So all the routes from south of the West were shut up in the air, air, and uterus. Such insecurity of transportation is not to be enjoyed and must be corrected immediately, including by promoting winter service at 60 Western Roads already. The role and importance of Baldur's ferry have been progressively increasing since the dedication of a new ferry seven years ago to the change in employment. A moving service in the area has exploded with the growing number of passengers, and at the same time with fresh fish from farms in the southern part of the West has grown dramatically. It is important to trust the transport around the Breafjörður. It is clear that Rock's neck will be long into the future of poor winter, and the improvements on the drawing table will not solve the problem. However, it is not only exports that rely on soil transport but also on Western and tourism. Strategic transportation is a basis for structure. So maintenance and renewal of the roads and reforms are key. I hope it's best to drag Baldur to sea today with crew and passengers safe and sound, now that the weather is down. But this is not an interesting experience for people. Clearly, there is a need to provide a new vessel that is suitable for shipping through the Breafjörður, where the safety of a passenger is compromised and the government is responsible. [[The president calls.]] I challenge a travel minister to take this matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u17	A respectable president. The equal availability for all individual members of the community is human rights and a key factor in the fact that people with impaired mobility may be valid members of the community. The project Rús up in Reykjavík is an excellent example of a basic work that increases the quality of life of disabled people and reminds us to stick together. The sponsors of the project are numerous and come from all directions. Whether it is a state, a community, a community, a company, a business, or a individual, this shows us in black the importance of meeting for the changes we would like to see in our neighboring community. The task of increasing the availability of motion - related workers to the central city of Reykjavík is inspired, but probably because we should always consider access issues and offer the best possible access to everyone everywhere. I'm celebrating this act that's a long time. However, this is not a problem that is confined to the city, unfortunately. All too far, people who are motion - stricken come to a closed door and do not have the same freedom that others choose to serve. I hope that this fine effort and the attention it has brought will lead to the success of other rural communities with the good support of all those I believe will make society better for all. A respectable president. The leader of this project, Haraldur Þorleifsson, deserves special commendation for working so well in his own neighboring community, and all of us may imitate him.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u18	Mr. President. Our committee work is one of the most important aspects of the council work, and before members of Congress, hundreds of delegates come at each council, and they generally feel that anything they say will not be made known in the community, interpreted, or redesigned unless it is arranged in a certain way. Upon closed meetings, visitors decide how frank or informed they are and how we react to our trust. It is absurd and farfetched to believe that the Senate's surveillance role, or the guest's information or comments on Congress matters, is best paid by visitors standing before a nation rather than a group of confidential people who follow light rules. Can't humans really see the inhibitory effect of an open committee as a rule? And I ask, what kind of super guest are we aiming at? It is similar with words in the discussion that the members of the committee can, or should interpret, the words of visitors in the name of freedom of information or democracy, even in the media. You ask: Did the person give them permission, expect him in advance to interpret a member of the committee, even so that even more guests are suspected of having spoken certain words? What guarantee do guests have that all seven or nine members of the committee do not understand, interpret fairly, or even disfellowship a word? Perhaps the visitor himself wishes to interpret his own words out, to reveal them over his head. Or is the senator the self - appointed judge doing so? A senator's role is, not to interpret, to reveal, or to explain the words of the panel committee, but to listen and then to take steps, if necessary, in the light of the words. A committee or a senator may consider some words serious, discuss more with the guests after meetings, get information needed to handle matters, conduct a multiple study, and reveal its findings. The Embarrassing of the allowed and official interpretation of the statements of the Trustees of the Generals is the most leading way to undermine the committee's work. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u19	A respectable president. In 2017, a joint reconnaissance test failed, as most of us probably remember. At that time, a minister, with the permission of a president, said: "The operation failed completely and is totally unacceptable to the Icelandic education system. A lot of disrespect for students and teachers. This will be replaced. Under those words, a minister could be taken. But now, in 2021, a standard test was held. Hundreds of ninth-grade students failed to complete a standardized Icelandic test due to technical difficulties. We can fully discuss whether we should have a standard test or not, that is a specialist. But math tests and English were postponed. The same minister of education as in 2018 did not long place all responsibility in the National Institute of Education. It's a familiar theme. However, according to a cultural agency, since 2018, the Ministry of Education has sent 12 memos, not just one but 12, because of tests made since 2018. In addition, contributions to the National Institute of Education have been reduced to build up the infrastructure. The minister should have known that the system was not satisfactory. The values of the uniform tests are, as I say, followed by a completely different debate. The minister knew about this problem, and she decided not to answer one of the 12 memos, and then she assumes responsibility. She has blessedly canceled these tests, which I agree with. You need to speak clearly. After her own mess, she's trying to save herself for a corner. V.E.G. A minister of education has to be responsible for this mess. It is sad, however, to observe that the Ministry's energy and minister are now rather committed to taking full weight on an individual, a woman who has sought justice because the Minister of Education has violated her rights. But it is gone full, and all the energy is put in it instead of focusing on what needs to be added and supported, including It's an inner education system. Of course, this is not an acceptable, dignified president, not for our children, not for our educational systems, and not for the whole system of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u20	A respectable president. It's a big difference if we've arranged our knots here in this hall that laws that guarantee the right of workers to trade should only apply when business is transferred from state to country, not from rural society to state. This legal explanation is now used by the Ministry of Health to excuse the order of two rural areas, the Westlands, and the Far East, to resign more than 100 nurses in these two zones. For this reason, I have sent three questions to the health minister, as follows, with the permission of a president: Why has the Ministry of Health given the Western Islands town and the Far Away orders to resign more than 100 employees in connection with the trade of nursing homes in these rural communities? Why was the law no? 72/2002, on the rights of employees in business, are they not relevant in the Western Islands and the Far East, considering that the same government gave them laws about comparable transfers in Akureyri and the Cape of Hornfjordur? And third: Do Ministers believe that there could have been a milder approach to this exchange instead of resorting to a series of domestic narratives in this typical female class that work in the care of our most vulnerable individuals? If it's true that the Department of Health Relations survives, they'll have to be changed here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u21	Mr. President. I am the last member of the Parliament's Advisory to join with members of the Northwestern District and members of all members of the council who spoke in this discussion about the disaster that was going on at this time. I want to agree with their speeches. Each word was well chosen, and I make it mine. However, I would like to draw it together in saying that we as a member of the Parliament group have not long ago been contacted by the heads of the Vega program on the affairs of Baldur's affairs and on the issues of transportation on the southern part of the West, which we would like to take better care of and to shed light on the fact that this is not possible. I send greetings to the people who are now aboard the Breafjörður Berei, who hope that things will be all right. But I'd also like to say, "This needs to be done and must be the last failure on that ship. " It is just a coincidence that when traveling in this delicate sea area on a ferry with only one machine, it does not go badly. Me and those in the Northwestern district also have meetings with the governments and management of the Vega administrations and brought attention to transport within the western settlement and maintain it. We want this march today at the council to show that it must be the priority of the government and transport secretary to consider transport over the British farm. The southern part of the West must be taken very seriously, and for good works today, we need to take urgent transportation ministers today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u22	A respectable president. In the discussions about the President's conference board here yesterday, I understood a respectable president so that he would have made it known to the committees, the committees, to reiterate his confidence in committees. Was this likely to be settled by a president's meaning. I believe it has failed completely in the light of what they say. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson earlier, as well as the Bjarkey of Gunnarsdóttir Gunnisdóttir yesterday and, indeed, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son, Proppér. No confidentiality has occurred recently in the World Congress committees, and accusations against this are only proposed to undermine the ability of members of Congress to describe to the public as much as the outcome. A respectable president. In committees and discussions, it is unusual for discussions such as the conduct of committees or the appearance of committees or the viewpoints and the like. Nothing new has happened with a career. The members of the council of Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, and Helga Vala Helgadóttir, did not make any thing. It is an assault on the respect of the council on the part of its members to come here and accuse the government of violating confidence in any committee or trust. That's a misapprehensive, respectable president. There are members of the administrative body that are doing so. The board members are simply caring for their role in monitoring to the Commission, of course the duties to be handled with or without permission. The senators of the greater part. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u23	A respectable president. I want to say something. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn's Gunnarsson, who he fell just now. How tragic it is to know that these efforts of the majority of them are clearly going to continue, and this is to break working peace at the General Assembly! I cannot understand how such experienced senators as here have spoken could make a comment that confidentiality has been broken over their heads. Don't people know any more about Congress than they do, or the job here? Or what are we really trying to do here at the Council and for who? No. It continues to focus on something other than what is involved, the information presented at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u24	A respectable president. Yesterday, I pointed out to the President the unfounded pimps in the book of the Independence Party's Department of Government and Control Committee that the confidentiality, according to Congress, had been broken into that committee, unfounded and unprovable. Here goes up in a pontta dog. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who said that guests should generally believe that what they say on committees will not be made known in society, interpreted, or redesigned unless such information is set down in a certain way. So said the senator in the context of yesterday's discussion, I would say. Is the senator, a respectable president, suggesting that the visitor's words have been respoken? Is the senator saying that they were interpreted, or were the body of Congress broken in some other way? This is still a serious and unfounded accusation on the members of the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u25	The chief calls attention to the fact that the dog is the dog. A senator referred to in the discussions about the Senate took advantage of his right to describe his viewpoints in the discussions under the Council's program. Hv. A senator is responsible for them. The president's just asking what. A senator to bear this in mind, that here is a discussion of the viewpoint that one individual member of the council described in discussions about the work of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u26	A respectable president. I'm rather surprised to see that we're being reminded of the discussion we had yesterday. I wondered, " If a meeting has been opened, it will be an inhibitory effect on the work of the council. ' I just want to remind people that we're here working for the nation. The people have the right to know what we are doing. It is not hard to express ourselves on matters that we discuss within her. I'm just going to stand here and say that it's a hell of a lot too much for us here at the General to think that we're breaking our trust all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u27	A respectable president. I understand, and I agree with a respectable president on the matter. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and those who spoke here yesterday describe their own views. I'll figure it out. I've been at the General Assembly long enough to realize that when the senators come up here in a pit, they're describing their own views. The problem I now face regarding the role of a respectable president in all of this is a letter sent by a respectable president to the committees in the sense that the committees should figure out how they were going to do this or understand a council. It is very clear to a respected president that the letter has caused the misunderstanding of members of the government that confidentiality has been partially broken, or a body of Congress, in their conduct. The senators. The misunderstanding must be corrected. It's not good enough for a respectable president that here in a pita we disagree on whether we're breaking our faith or not. We need to be clear, and it is hopefully the role of a respectable president is to try to keep it straight and it has failed. [[The president calls.]] So I assume this will continue to be discussed here or in other areas until it reaches the bottom of this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there's no way in this area there are proselytists involved in confidentiality to undermine their surveillance role, of course. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u28	President. I appreciate the efforts made by the president, who directed it to the presidents of the committees and members of the committees how confidentiality is handled by committees by the letter he sent. It was submitted to a board of administrations and monitoring committees. As mentioned in the discussion, this led to the trial that in spite of it, people have not dared to back it up in the media that I, as director of the Board of Directors and Controls Committee, had committed a crime by going to the U.S.R. and saying that there had been new information about the handling of the Justice Minister and the police chief for the Committee of Justice and the Committee, and we needed to look into the matter further, i.e. The call between the Minister of Justice and the Chief of Police. Of course, this is not a violation of confidentiality. Nevertheless, and this needs to be known by the president, it is stated in the book of two independent members of the Committee, Brubbers the Brynjar of Níelsson and Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, that visitors who came before the committee no longer have a guarantee of the order of Congress for confidentiality to hold and refer to the gentleman's conduct, which I told earlier, my words at VOLV. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This unconvinced statement that religious convictions cannot be respected according to Constitutional law booked at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This isn't the way it works. We need to sort this thing out, and I'd like a team president to do it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u29	Mr. President. Yeah, I think we just need to discuss this word every day here at the Hall of Congress, based on the possibility of misunderstandings by a member of the Congress Act. I don't know. Senators say we represent the public. We are required to ask questions, and we are also required to inform the people about what we become aware of in our work, unless there is a special confidentiality. I'll take an example from what happened. The welfare committee. There are vaccines contracts for discussion. We are not permitted to inform the details about them. Of course, acting as if we were here, we must not discuss what is discussed in the committees is so foolish that you wonder whether members of the government have not figured out their major role here. It is quite sad that during the last few months of the season, they will be completely surprised to learn that they are here to play a highly controlled role with the executives, despite being a member of the government class. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u30	A respectable president. I would like to ask: Is it the purpose of the Allied Congress that there is one large smoke - filled backroom where so much confidence prevails that the information presented in our councils can not be presented to the general public and into the legislation of the country? Is that the purpose of this institution? I don't understand. President. I don't really understand these management careers. Now it's so bad. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has reasoned very clearly, clearly and grammatically that his case was not broken by a clown. However, I have no logical support from the government to the breaking of confidentiality. No one. It's a matter of silence, a respectable president. It's an attempt to get us senators to stand here daily in self - examination. This is an attempt to get it on. [[The president calls.]] And it is, of course, the custody of the entire council to correct this, and I encourage the president to do so in order to keep the peace of work here. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u31	Mr. President. Because my name was mentioned earlier, I mentioned no names such as, I just want to point out that there was no one here in the hall, possibly one man in the side room, who listened to me as I was in the speech. [[Foreground on: Yes. ...]] I was discussing an open committee meeting and turning them down. I was discussing a word that fell here yesterday that it was the right of members of Congress to interpret the words of the guests, exactly this word, to interpret the words of the guests. I turned it down, too. [[Up front.]] - Senator. That's what I was discussing. I wasn't discussing this particular incident seriously, which makes it possible that we are now discussing this matter. I was just discussing these two matters and stressing that the guest's right will be respected, too. He does not assume that words are interpreted by members of the council at the time of the meeting. So we can disagree on how we want to have committees, that's just normal. But there is no attack on one or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u32	President. I have a problem with this trial for the presidents and members of the Council Committees, which the president sent to the committees, which says that it is not the role of members of the NTSB to repeat and how it interprets what visitors or other members say on closed committees. However, members of Congress must be able to recognize their attitude and attitude. This too is shown in the letter. When I get information at committee meetings, it shapes my view on this matter and I have to reason with them in some way. Inevitably, it means that there is a certain interpretation of what happened, not necessarily in the comments of the individual guests, but perhaps a few guests, who need to be puzzled and, of course, interpret. This trial has a very narrow word for what it really means in view of what it is being discussed here. I wish the President would explain. You see, this is an incomprehensible appeal according to the circumstances we are in here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u33	Mr. President. I'm surprised to say that I'm a member of a council member who knows exactly what it's like to be in my line of work and how serious it is when more than a proportion accuses other members of Congress about something like confidentiality. It's called hypocrisy, Mr. President. I have news for the management of this: Excuse me, Mr. Honorable President. You see, it's about the nation. And it is not confidential about the people we are here dealing with. There's no confidentiality in the subjects we're discussing here, the people's affairs. We can express ourselves about our views, as it were. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of earlier. It's very serious to keep trying to undermine the memory and say that it's breaking down when it just doesn't hold water.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u34	Mr. President. Ask: Can guests expect their words to be testified? It is now that the guests who appear before the World Council of Constants are asking for and regularly relying on members of the committee for their dealings with the superpowers of the State, the State, the Minister, the Ministry, the institutions of the State. They are asking us, a public representative at the General Assembly, to assist them in their struggles. The State of the United States has caused everything on its side. For example, the Ministry of Health has the highest standards. The health minister is now twice sent out an official press release published on the website of Iceland's Board of Directors, saying that some members of Congress and local council members are having a false case about nursing homes in Iceland and negotiations with the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, we are expected to fulfill our obligation and support our caregivers. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u35	A respectable president. In fact, during the short time I've been on a welfare committee, I have to say that I am speechless about what is to be part of my confidence. How can we discuss this and say that when we have just been discussing the public finances of the State and the community, how does money work? If it has become confidential, I don't see how we should ever be able to do our job. That's completely impossible. Then most of everything that goes on on the committee will be strictly confidential. This can only be impossible, so I say: Now we need to get clear information about the welfare committees that we are going to discuss and that we must not discuss, if we don't want to point out when it becomes clear and settled that something is wrong with public financial matters. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u36	Mr. President. My immediate family may accuse me of my lack of emotional intelligence. Now, it may well be that I just misunderstood the employment of the Generals from the beginning, from the time I sat down at Congress 2016, that I was completely overlooked by those invited to the meetings of the committees to appear trembling at their bones for fear that what they say would leak to the public. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just half-centered here because I have a lack of my emotional intelligence that this is the opportunity of people, stakeholders, public people and just any person in the Icelandic community to be present and an audience with members of Congress who do something about it. I apologize for myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u37	A respectable president. I will not make full use of the 30 minutes I have to recommend to some committee party about this fine affair. This is similar to what has come from a number of decisions during this term and is positive in all respects. This is where most laws have been removed and have been removed for a long time. All the members of the Environment and Transport Committee are on the committee list I recommend here and where it is established, I'm going to allow myself, by permission of the President, to review it as a whole. So this is the opinion of the Commission on bill to legalize various laws (uret law), from the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received it to Hildur Dungal from the Department of Transport and Division. The committee received a review of the situation from the Iceland Business Council. The bill suggests that a third of the tracks no longer applicable or completed are canceled. Regarding impact assessment, the bill's report of approval would have the effect of increasing the understanding of the Law code on the transport and rural sectors. In the review of the Business Board, contributions from the bill are welcomed and encouraged by the introduction of such laws. The Commission feels positive that a minister will put forth effort to increase the understanding of the body of law in this way and suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir were absent at the hearing, but they signed this opinion on 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. To this, there's nothing to add, and I can say the most. The minister of all means now to work out a legal cleansing where appropriate, even for simple objects, but not just to eliminate inactive laws, as this is so. But this certainly is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u38	Mr. President. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee decided to make a proposal for action on the basis of a number of resources available. As mentioned earlier, it deals with food and reprograming of various hazards and exposure monitorings for natural events, including volcanic eruptions. This is what we often call the initiative case of the committee. The committee took up the matter with themselves, and all members of the committee meet together to see what is going to be said here. First, I'm going to read the eulogy proposal and it's going to say so, with the permission of the president: The Council of Environment and Resource Ministers concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Ministers, in agreement with financial and economic minister, transport and rural Ministers and Prime Ministers, to appoint a representative council and institutions to conduct basic research, monitoring, risk assessment and response due to a natural year to assess the need for further research, monitoring and action on natural hazards and monitoring in Iceland. The task force performs the following tasks: a. To meet the research and monitoring process carried out by the state institutions of nature, their cooperation with projects, and the funding of projects at this time. b. Enrolling the need for research that enhances the understanding of terrestrial, marine and water - related natural conditions and facilitates and strengthens monitoring, risk assessment and response to such events. c. If there is any suggestion on the need for research funding, as well as a team, that can be used in the preparation of financial programmes and that appreciate the need for a special range of natural reactions designed to strengthen research and scientific responses, such as monitoring, in the event of sudden disaster or disaster due to sudden disaster, as well as contributions for such funds. d. policy-makers, harmonisation and priorities for data collection and mapping of the nature of the country, aimed at promoting risk assessments and monitoring, and aiding all-cause environmental response, with their social impact towards reference. e Set out a project program based on a-, b-, and d-a- and technical progress, nationally, with assessment of the costs of data collection, technology, mapping and monitoring. b Provides suggestions on how to trust the joint cooperation of industry, recruitment and public defences in research, risk design, and monitoring structure. g Analysing the need for institutions and reactants to promote the exchange of information on natural events and to use up-to-date techniques to reach the public, including tourists. h. provides basic suggestions on how to improve the nature of the public and the knowledge of nature and the means to promote education that is suitable for the expertise of natural resources and how to respond to it increase further and in the rhythm of society's need. It's a long list. The depression of the council arrangement is as follows: ▪ The range of knowledge and experience given by the working group will be emphasized. Experts and governments will be consulted as indicated by the work force. The task force submitted a report to the minister no later than June 1, 2022. Secretary introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General of the Council and to the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses. Mr. President. Even though I have mentioned them, many people do not need to comment on this reason. Of course, there are events in Sufficiency and the present event in the Smokey Peninsula. I think it's necessary, all of this as an explanation, that I make further comments about this proposal and use it here as a foundation. This arrangement focuses primarily on research and monitoring that prepares for natural hazards. This includes evaluation of whether there will be an increase in research that will support risk assessment or not. The amount of money now is partly tied to the monthly interest budget, but there is also a fund that can be set up when faced with serious and even very unexpected events. While reexamination and legislation on the so - called disaster fund or its value has not been reviewed, it must be necessary to earn and contribute to a natural - age response fund. The occasion may be just what has just happened. The existence of such a treasure includes avalanches, landslides, and related woes. It is not clear where the plans for one disaster fund are headed rather than two or more, in the face of increased natural hazards. The terms of public finance laws must be determined by means of financing and fund - support programs for this purpose as soon as possible. Governments, lawgivers, scientific and services, funds and reacters are involved each year because of disastrous events in nature that need to be addressed. It is important to minimize material damage and health problems from natural hazards and to include investments that focus on such factors as both urgent and in the best interests of all. It can be assumed to be less expensive at the time than at least a community's cost of solution after a crash without a good preemptive effect. Mr. President. Dangers and challenges in this country turn to an amazing variety of natural conditions; torrential storms, floods, avalanches, flash floodwaters, rocky storms, cliffs, cold weather, river of glaciers, ocean floodwaters, e.g. due to the rise of sea levels and storms or so - called marshes, wood or summer fires, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions, for most of them to be listed. The community has a variable degree of ability to prevent and react in each of these gangs as well as in knowledge of nature. However, there is clear evidence that rational land use and planning based on a realistic risk assessment is one of the most effective preventive measures and can be made with a risk assessment that reduces the risk of natural loss and property. It's very important to say this. Organizational matters are important. Much progress has already been made in research, monitoring, risk assessment, and reactogenicity, but there is still much to do better in the near future. The funding has to be reviewed, as previously noted, but also in decisions, assessments and research needs, improving the mapping of hazardous areas, and improving risk monitoring, as well as improving risk and disaster response, and further need to re-evaluate the funds system for damage at appropriate intervals. Then we even have it. ... totranslation insurance. The procedure also includes assessment of a wide range of data collections and scoring of danger areas important for monitoring and practical hazards, as well as self-improvement of hazards and disasters. The interpretation proposal is very much about making new reactions and, as I say, realistic danger points. There are numbers of data and maps that need to be better processed and synchronized, but some natural fields exactly require new data and much more research and mapping than they have been working on. Cooperation with organizational authorities and rural governments is an outstanding part of this. The scientific sector also accords itself with formal consultations and even more cooperation between professional institutions, universities and other parties in these products than has been so far. The task force is aimed at creating a work programme for the collection and management of data, mapping and related work. We are actually asking for one type of cluster sharing at this point. The need to educate the public and students on natural hazards in Iceland and to encourage interested students to gain the expertise of scientific and technical skills that are useful in protecting the environment but also increasing the general understanding of society of natural hazards and its potential consequences. This points to the early lack of experts in some species of nature because experts are entering retirement age. The service group is aimed at providing ideas or suggestions on how to do so. He is also commissioned to provide suggestions on how to improve information to the public and visitors in the country at any given time. Of course, there is an important part of responding when something is wrong. The report of the workgroup to be given according to the Convention Recontraction Directive for Ministers should not include results of altered local hazards or new information on the danger zone or the nature of different natural years, but suggestions for improvement on financing and projects that are facing natural disaster and that must be solved in the near future. A few points to support this synonym are to be reviewed. I first mention that the Environment and Resource Ministry has been appointed to bring together the Agency's research and monitoring of Iceland's nature. It was returned in March 2015. Its contents are informative. The report exists, but it will not have been used as a contribution for Congress, but it can, of course, benefit the members of that body. I want to explain the new course of the Scientific and Technical Council involved in increasing monitoring of Iceland's nature through climate change. I also mention that even now more funding has been provided on the basis of laws on the prevention of avalanches and landslides to pay the cost of natural hazards from volcanic eruptions, floods, and floodwaters, 110 million. K. In a year that is effective in these days. Furthermore, it is appropriate to refer to a strategy for reforming the interiors of the country, following the storm of December 2019, in a number of teams that are being treated with some of the points mentioned above. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to say that increasing pressure on reform is expected to arise because of our awareness of natural hazards and, especially, due to various evidences of growing risks associated with environmental change that obviously take place. Moreover, no matter what climate change or such changes, there are occasional events that cause volcanic eruptions or earthquakes. In order to cope with all of this, it is emphasized that the work force weighed, met, and reviewed many factors and produced financial and project programmes as considered to be most suitable for protection against nature's problems. It should be noted that at the agreement of this proposal for action, there were very extensive cooperation with the professional institutions, with individual scientists, and, of course, the Ministry, too, so it is not surprising that all members of the committee were present. The Environment and Transport Committee agrees with this and will consider this proposal as very important, that it needs to be reimbursed at the council in a natural way, but as soon as possible. Mr. President. In this case, I think I have made a reasonable explanation for this initiative. The environment and transport committee which we hope will improve and benefit the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u39	To answer, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Ministers of Social Affairs and Children, Environment and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u40	A respectable president. I have recently had a few conversations with people in my group and other areas of climate change that will again pose a major threat when the Covid-19 stops, which must occur in the relatively near future. This problem remains, climate changes that are the biggest threat mankind faces, often underestimated. Iceland has been a country that boasts of nature protection and environmental considerations, at least when it comes to international advertising and at least the image we want to build up for people outside the rocks. But when it comes to climate change and is seen in the cold reality, it becomes evident that we are certainly industrialized by modern countries and therefore have our sins in climate change. Although we're doing a good job in some way, for example. our ability to use renewable energy, that we can warm very many if not most houses in Iceland with hot water rather than electricity, which must be done or gased or the like, I have to say that I and my interviewers are responsible for not at all imagining that Iceland is the best environment. Maybe it was never the case that we were best in the environment, but it was that time, and hopefully still, we wanted to be. When it comes to our response to the climate problem, I notice that there are a number of things we're doing. We share in all kinds of international cooperation and such activities. But I have felt that I lack ambition or a clear view that we are going to be the best, not just to fulfill international agreements that we have signed or reach some international goal or to be part of a team that reaches international goals, which is all very important and good and I do not reduce it. I wanted to ask the highest. Environment Minister, if he had checked what would be necessary for us to be able to outdo beyond the expectations we should meet according to treaties, i.e. so that in some way we can say that we are leading to the battle against the climate problem. And if this study has been conducted, whether something is unrealistic or practical or if it is possible to identify an opportunity or another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager to start a discussion on the biggest challenge of the 21st century. You're right. A senator comes in here, that the discussion about climate change and, as a matter of fact, the environment has been down a bit now that the Korean epidemic has been going on and that means a little in the media. But how important it is that we, who have ambitions for these matters, keep this up! That's why I thank you. A senator very much for the discussion. I think it's an interesting approach. A senator is looking to how we can do better than to do better and best. I think there are some areas where we should be able to do that. Perhaps we are best or with the best when it comes to the factors that arise. A senator mentioned here and turned to house warming and electricity production in view of greenhouse gas. But I have emphasized that we look forward, that we are not just in the past talking about what we've done, but what we can do. We have, in my opinion, laid a tremendous foundation in this terms, with a funded operation program that we plan to meet our commitments and to do better. Such goals are the objective of the 2040's. But this question was asked: How can we be outstanding? I think we're supposed to be able to distinguish ourselves in a variety of ways when it comes to innovation. This may be the best example of the Carbonix project that has been going on on at Hellishi and possibly create huge opportunities in the future to reduce emissions from the major industry and from the geothermal activations as the standard exists today. [[The president calls.]] I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u42	A respectable president. New birth opportunities, e.g. that's the highest. A minister named Carbifx as well as a technique to achieve aluminium production to remind us of the release of carbon dioxide. I'm not making any disagreement that we're meeting up to our commitments, and I certainly don't make the highest ambitions. Minister of commitment. But I feel that sometimes we fall into Iceland's pit of focusing too on the easy stuff, things where we actually do better just because our country is in a certain way or our position in other ways. There's one country in the world that's not just carbohydrate-free, it's carburetor, and it's Bhutan. It's not quite certain that it will be that way forever, but I wondered, " Can we become a nothing of carbon in 2040? We're going to be non-carbon, so I think a better question is, how can we get the position as soon as possible? [[The president calls.]] What year could we first reach that goal?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you again. I'd like to add a little bit, since I gave up on these innovations earlier. Yesterday, it became my law to bind carbon compounds into the rock, which is a big part of this. I'd also like to mention that we're in second place when it comes to registrars or environmentally sound cars, so in a few areas, we're reaching out to be with the best. I just want to say in general: I think we're supposed to, about a lack of carbon, start looking at a little more of that. When are we going to reach certain stages when it comes to a lack of carbon? Although 2040 may be the ultimate goal, we will have to move, of course, to bind more than we are free. I also think we have to look at something to set up dates when looking at individual sectors, such as. The aerospace, the fishing route, the agriculture, the construction industry, etc. Thank you. A senator is eager for this discussion and wants to be with him and others by doing the best he can.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u44	A respectable president. At the same time we hear about the pay raise at 370,000 bucks. every month, it is 2.5 million. K. a month's pay as well as a $3 billion bill. K. to the same party, there are people who have to live at more than 200,000 bucks. in a month on the social security system, a cut of 68,000. during a month because of a mate or just because his child is 18 years old. Then there's the wedding tax. The other day, both husband and wife, contacted me and asked, " What would happen if we got married? ' What happens if they get ready and get married? I told them that the wedding gift of the state insurance agency in the form of a decrease of $146,000 would be paid for by taxes nearly 94,000. What should a single parent, an invalid, do with a child when he is 18? Is that supposed to be throwing it out? Is it to be listed elsewhere? What to do when it loses 68,000 bucks, 47,000 bucks. By taxes, by income? If we apply this to a minister, his salary, that means that when his child turns 18, he loses 600,000 bucks. Is that normal? Or an average wageman with 700,000 bucks. ... whenhis kid grows 18 years old, he loses $200,000. It's not time to stop this economic violence, chief. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I'd like to say first about the news coming from the government's pay raise in public business that even if it's not directly under the state alone, I don't think it's very defendable. I just agree with what. That's what a senator does. I have personally been a spokesman for adding one tax step to the highest wage in society. During this term, the government has increased tax ladders and aims to reduce taxes on less revenues. But I couldn't agree more. A senator in charge of these pay increases. Right away. A senator asks about children, making it possible that when children become infants 18 years old, individuals will become self - sufficient at the age of 18. However, it is in the system, and we have raised it, that if the individual is studying, it is possible that these declines will not start until we are 20 years old. We have considered whether there is more reason to lift it when students live in a home where parents are desperate pensioners, whether there is reason to increase that age. But, of course, at some point there is a question where that line should be. When does a child become an adult? When does the adult enter the workforce? As I say, it's been under 18 years. It is perfectly normal to take a political discussion about whether it is right to raise it even more. We have the authority to do so when it comes to young students, to 20 years of age, and we are considering whether there is a greater need to raise them. It's been compared to this, it's been elevated, and it's normal to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I agree with him that we should use a high income tax. It sucks that we have a system where we're offering individuals to register elsewhere, just so that they don't cause financial damage to their parents. Is it natural that we say to people: Just because you're desperate, we're going to punish you cruelly if you have the nerve to live together. This will lead to the fact that people will live together but will register locally. It's a survival attempt, it's only normal, because these people are trying to manipulate to live a better life, but they can't when the government punishes them so systematically. People are being encouraged to survive by engaging in illegal registrations. It can't be like this. There must be a way to settle this, so people don't have to be in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u47	A respectable president. Of course, it is in the social security system, and it is not this government that established this form of government that has been taken into account in certain subsidies by a person's income. People wonder when we have public funds, are paying for social security, to those who truly need it, that more money can enter less expensive households. That's the basic thought behind this. Whether the entire income of the family would need to increase is, of course, this political question and is one of the things we were dealing with at work that covered the review of social security. I know why. A senator knows that job because he was part of that group. That's what we need to do. I'm not a spokesman for a social security system taking no account of the income of a spouse and a family, but it's a question where the line is.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u48	A respectable president. On this occasion, I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Agricultural and marine economists in the past, affecting a number of sheep. In October of the last year, 2020, several towns in the province of Skavegur arrived, specifically in the Akrafjord, and were cut down in a month since November. Now the situation remains that treaties with these farmers are unscrupulous. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether he has any word for me about how that preparation works, for at the beginning of March, there came up in a waterbox in the Huns meeting of the West, and there shall be no wonder that the farmer who sees to cut down on his sheep will not be interested in the degree to which negotiations have been made with farmers in the province of Skavetir. It has been about six months since that situation was there. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Ministers on the financial benefits of the agreements discussed here. First of all: Is it possible for the Minister to extend the time of product reform? However, the time period of income loss remains longer than the time covered by product reforms in accordance with current rules and is referred to as limited production capacity at first after the return of funds. Second, do you think about reevaluating the price for cutting back? There is a possibility that the present improvement will not be sufficient for farmers to establish new farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. I'm disappointed that the matter is not yet over, because we all know what a shock it is to people who find themselves in the conditions of a sheep's hump analysis is in sheep's house. It's a big blow, and it's extremely difficult for everyone who is involved in going through such a shock. When it came to first head, my recommendation and wishes for both the Ministry and the Food Organization were to go as fast as possible to ease the pressure that is natural for the fine people who have been standing in this business. Because of what? A senator asks how this is going about, so treaties are far along with my information. We'll get a special employee into the Ministry to take care of these matters in particular and we'll review the procedure, including taking into account the new subjects that have been provided. I hope a chief vet comes to the Ministry next week to take it all out. Contracts with farmers have been drawn, as I could before, they are far away. This is an enormously complicated task because there are differences in viewpoints and sizes. A senator mentioned some of the products benefits and other factors. I don't know how to do this in any detail, but my will is that it will be done as soon as possible. I don't know the exact status of the contracts, but I do know that documents have gone between contracts and similar agreements, where people exchange emphasis on a final outcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer and to add the next question: What is the situation of the review of Regulation on these issues that the minister has declared to be imminent? It was a report on the Ministry's Web on November 11, 2020, just four months ago, by permission of a president: ▪ [Environment] has set in place work at the Department of Employment and Development in evaluating and reviewing the rules and administrations in matters, in the line of defense of livestock, in repairs of livestock diseases, and in animal health cuts and regulations. [...] The project manager is scheduled to be temporarily planned for this project, but it is scheduled to be completed in the middle of the next year. Is this really the project that the Minister referred to in his first reply to the employee who had arrived at the Ministry? How is this work going, since it is now only three to four months into the middle of the year? Has this project manager been hired? Does the minister believe that it is realistic to believe that this project will be completed in the middle of the year so that it will be properly completed during this terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u51	A respectable president. You're right. A candidate here refers to a review of regulations and other factors, defense lines, etc., the task we were going to start in the winter, as early as the fall, but it's taken a long time to get into the person who knows how to understand this subject because it's complicated. It's a long story, it's a great requirement for differentiation, etc. It has simply taken a long time to find a person in this, unfortunately. But now he's here, as I used to know. In terms of how well we're going to win this thing, I hope we can have some aspect of the matter clear in the middle of this year, but I'm not at that place now that I can claim that work will be done then, a long way from. But I have given it much emphasis in my conversations with farmers and have emphasized consultation with farmers. Also, in my dealings with the Food Organization, I have emphasized that these matters will be over as soon as possible and that emphasis is available. Sadly, though, there has been no speed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u52	A respectable president. I got a couple of days from one woman. It reads, with President's permission: Yesterday, I received a text and phone call from my daughter, who I thought was in the middle of a test in Icelandic, saying that everything was a mess. What made me even more sad was that three years ago I received exactly the same text message as my son's, which was then to be in that same test, but everything was in a steak. That three years later a child's experience is incomprehensible. If this had happened to a group of adults, I don't think we'd be here three years later. In other words, Mr President, it's a mess. Now I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on behalf of this mother and thousands of Icelandic parents and teachers and all children who were given public vision: How could this happen? How could this be allowed to happen again? The discussion has shown that the design of these devices has been known by the National Science Institute. Why was it then used? I was wondering if I could direct you to a second and more tested device, which could possibly be the case. would have been an option: a paper and a pencil? It has been observed that President Arnór Guðmundsson, director of the National Institute of Education, was granted: We've probably sent 12 memos to the Ministry, where we're pointing out that the testing system needs to be dealt with. The last thing we did was that there was no new test system. It was only now in February. A respectable president. This calls for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u53	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying we've been working on these issues for a while. As soon as the incident took place in 2018, I ordered a group of workmen who have returned to me on how we are going to do this for the future. It's like this, unfortunately, and I'm sorry, that when we perform an electronic test, something can always happen. I'm afraid that happened now. What we've been doing since then, along with a number of experts, is that we're going to develop an assessment process that allows children to enter the tests over a period of time so that such technical malfunction cannot occur. I'm sorry that this is the case with the director of the Institute of Education because he is well aware that this has taken place a huge work on a future policy of consistent study evaluations. What we've been doing is exactly trying to stop this from happening. As early as 2018, we took the Institute of Education and had our systems strengthened. And the week before the test, everything was planned and it was doing very well. However, in these last days it has been discovered that this system has a risk and that I want to destroy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. But someone might say that if the system is not completely secure, and if anything can happen in any particular device, it would be better not to use it and to use it, such as, for example, to avoid using it. magazines and pencil. How important it is for young people in this country to trust in the school system, to know that the school system is foreordainable, reliable, and reliable. And it must also be marked by compassion and joy for the discoveries of life and its laws and themselves. A consistent test has now been performed. Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have had a spur - of - the - moment decision, or he may have thought about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u55	A respectable president. We feel very important that all the environment in which our children live is certain, that we are not creating and increasing uncertainty. We had much cooperation with the whole school community, and we view this as an opportunity to leave A to B now and develop it even further. We live in a digital world. A senator mentioned that we should use the pencil, so we should use it. We must, however, have the system so that it can endure stress. I'm sorry, but I didn't now, so I say: It's a well - thought - out decision. This is based on three years'work. This is based on work with all professionals, and we are going to take the opportunity to take the step and have the system so that children and parents and the school community can count on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u56	A respectable president. Within hours of the loss of a woman's language, the Icelandic state had the highest power. A minister of education immediately declared that the judgment would be appealed. In fact, it took her considerable more time to trust in the press on the same subject. I can't see that the Minister was specifically on the decision to make an appeal. It is customary for lawyers to dismiss judgments, to determine whether reasons and materials are to start, and to have time to do so for a few weeks. This case is certainly equal and the silence of the Ministry on the matter has been overwhelming, probably because it's an equal issue, and it's a very bad judgment on the equality of the media. However, this command is also about the interests of the administration and the interests of the general public because of the appointment in their behalf. The judge says that there is much room for the minister to decide. The requirement is that a minister be able to back up his own actions, and the minister's logical support seemed unconvinced. Fall score, both at the NTSB and again in court. Last night was the highest. The prime minister here for answers on this matter said that the appeal was not under the government. She said the highest. A minister of education would have taken this matter into account during spring when she decided to bring it to court first after losing for the prosecution. V.E.G. The prime minister also said that she first heard of the appeal on evening news stories, such as others, who said no conversation within the board. My question to the highest. The minister of education is: To whom did she consult before the decision of appeal, and on what legal basis is this decision based?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that everything has been done professionally. At the time, when the jury's decision was made, I sought legal advice because I felt that the matter was serious and that I had to examine it very carefully. One of the facts, in my legal opinion at the time, is that it did not seem that the minister was too short to argue that the person was discriminated against by the person based on sex. This is evident in the opinion I gained at the time. For the question of the why. Then I consulted with a state lawyer. As soon as the judgment came, it was carefully reviewed, as well as the premise. I thought it was very important to do so. I'd also like to say that one of the things I've been based on is that it's been made, to form in the opinion of the General Agent of the Council in the matter of No. 63995/2011, that the jury's assignment in equal rights was not, by permission of the President: ▪... to reevaluate who should have been in charge over a job but to decide whether [the Ministry of Ministry] had been at odds with 1 mg. Twenty-six. track No. 10/2008...•U.S.A. Of course, the matter was prepared at the time. That's very important and professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u58	A respectable president. I can't see that a minister convicted of violations against equality can stand here in a pit talking about a professional case. The very issue is that things were not handled professionally. That's the point. A minister now declares that she carefully reviewed the sentence during the few hours that took place, and she consulted an appointed state lawyer there. I ask her: Was it the legal opinion of a state lawyer that material and why should this case be initiated to the National Court? When the United States is in lawsuits, it is because there are some interests behind the Icelandic state, for the common people. A decision based on personal opinion serves a far different and worse purpose. The first words of the Minister here, that she has the right to which other persons should seek justice, are special. [[The president calls.]] This person, unlike anyone else, can employ the Icelandic State in a lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] That is why making a decision is important. I remind you that in the U.S. Government Act of the Council of Iceland, a secretary should seek the opinion of the Ministry to ensure that decisions and activities are legal. [[The president calls.]] There is the general view of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u59	A respectable president. I reiterate that everything was being done professionally. In such a way, it is possible to appeal. That's where the state of justice goes. There are some judgments in this country. That's what I'm talking about. A senator's point to us that they cannot be applied? Is that so? And I'd like to say that when things like this come up, you'd certainly go to the most skilled specialists on the stage. This was done and the result was made. That may be the problem. A senator found this hard to accept, but that was the case. It was all very professional.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u60	A respectable president. This is a good matter that makes families in modern society different parts of the world and that even if they do not live together, they do so in ways that are trying to reach that reality. However, I am involved in the change of motion, along with two other members of the council, assuming that from the State it is guaranteed that equipment that disabled children need in both homes the child has.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u61	A respectable president. In this other fine case, adjustments have been made by memory and by two other senators to ensure that the families of children with a certain disability can enjoy the same opportunities as other families in this context. It would have been right to take that step to the full now that this case was taken care of, including, of course. taking into account the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. This issue has been in progress for a long time, and the value is not until January so that there would have been complete space and space to correct the situation. It is disappointing that the majority of the committee did not agree. I believe in this case we are totally on the farm by meeting the equality and equality issues and I beg the senators to support this change in proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u62	Mr. President. In this case, after this bill is completed, further changes must be made in this matter, related to the organizational changes and changes made by the bill. It has been discussed on the part of the administrative committee that this is to be done, and this is a judicial hearing. I think senators can be sure that the issues taken here will be followed. However, this matter should not be interrupted, in our opinion, now so that the work expected by the bill can be started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u63	Mr. President. I agree with those who have spoken here and are happy that this case has come to this place, there are many good things in it. Three years ago, the Revolutionary Party proposed a case of double law home, which I believe was better, but this is truly an improvement of the current position, with the exception that it is hard to understand that there has been left behind the interests of the group of people who would expect everyone to be careful to put their arms around, and there are parents or managers and guardians of disabled children and children themselves. I hear a word. Birgir In Ármannsson of the fact that this case is not meant to be legal until the beginning of the next year, you would think it would have been easy to finish it now, it's important, that's an important message. [[The president calls.]] I have to say, this is boring, and it's awful that this point is going on in this other way because it was the best interest of a child we should have had in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u64	Mr. President. This case is good enough, but I'm afraid it's not far enough. We will support this matter, and we will also support the proposed changes that our judgment will not go far enough, so that between 2 and 3. ... the middle category will provide a modification proposal for this bill, where the change is added to the rights given by parents who have disabled children. We feel that this is necessary in the light of changing conditions in society and a changed family picture. As I'm saying, it's a good thing, it's a good thing, and we're supporting it, but we're making a new arrangement between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u65	Mr. President. This is a case that many have long waited for, which we are about to vote for. I think it's important that in this discussion that it is not being restricted by anyone's rights, it's just increasing them. It also states that the implementation of the law, which is not until January 1, 2022, is subject to various changes that must be carried out on laws other than regulations. I'm not sure that we've managed to have a complete list in that list, so it's important that this job be handled carefully and carefully discussed all the matters. [[The president calls.]] But this is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u66	A respectable president. I want to agree that this case is good and important. It is also bad, since these matters have been taken a long way, and the hearing of the matter is not since next year, that not all families should be covered. It is disappointing for me to bring up a matter that does not cover families with children with divided homes, children who need support tools in both households. I don't know why it's taking the highest. A government for so long to understand this very matter. I like to hear a kind and positive understanding from the council of the Independence Party. But I'd rather encourage the greater part to address the case between the 2nd and 3rd. and perform exactly what they have the will and understanding to do. [[The president calls.]] I encourage the government classes to complete this other fine business and to extend it to every family, especially to children who need support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u67	A respectable president. This is a very good thing, and long ago it is time to go this way or to do what has already happened to very many families that are better off when the divorce ends in complete reconciliation. There has been a need for a few things, so both parents have access to comparable information and other aspects of the system, and we need to act. I believe we should be delighted to accept this matter. The changes to be made to other laws must be made; the ministers of the other lawsuits have convinced us, both the health insurance directives, the purchase of disabled children, and the laws of social Affairs that need to be changed in its wake. Hence, the date is not until next year, and it is of enormous importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u68	A respectable president. I agree with that, and I'm naturally on this case in advance. What a right for parents who already have that arrangement! But like a dog. It is boring to see that this change has not been made to ensure that the rights of disabled children are appropriate to other children in this matter. I'm just here to tell and remind the people out there that we in the Pirates, and definitely members of the Parliament and the Controversies, will follow through after the government makes these changes happen. We'll stand up with it, we won't stop reminding that this is a change that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who have spoken before. This is a very important matter, and I'll agree with it. Ármannsson On the contrary, it is very important to get on course. However, once again and again, vulnerable groups are left behind in the legal process, and these are the rights of disabled children. I encourage the Senate to keep their eyes focused on these groups, toward equality and reasonableness. But this is really equal, more often, a father in the process we now have in these matters, and this is about parental independence. I encourage Congress to accept the change in my share.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u70	I agree with others who have spoken here, it's a very good, important thing and a pleasure that we have come to this place to balance the status of children and parents. Of course, the more part decided to handle the situation in the way that was available, but I thought it was difficult. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will do well in her own case, and more. These points were discussed by the committee, including for aid tools and other things, and we believed that time was enough, the value element is in January 2022, so that other services involved in this procedure will have time to make the necessary changes to ensure everyone's rights. As a result, I will not support the change in the memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u71	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up right away to join them with the representatives more at what. The General and Education Committee listed here, to the concern that representatives of the smaller section of the Committee have described here are well seen in the bill and with changes in proposals and articles with the bill as it is available today. This important, positive, and important journey could never be started so that everything would be seen, all the other changes to be made in the laws and regulations involved. We, in the greater part, think it's very well seen. There is time to review other laws and other rules that apply to these matters, and no reason for the fear or judgment that representatives of the lesser part have to swerve here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u72	Mr. President. I'd like to come up here a second time after the U.S. Marshals' statement to make this suggestion. By doing so, I would say that it will only diminish the credibility of any human saying that there is no need to worry that this will work out. It is the decision to leave this group behind, and I would in that relationship want less at the highest. The social and child - care minister I've found to be admirable about the interests of children, he's spoken beautifully in that class, and that the systems should be able to talk to each other. Then it's still showing up here in the conference hall today that the government itself can't talk and talk about this group as some secondary adjustment that will probably follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u73	Mr. President. Here is a very good case, and even better adjustments, necessary to make smaller adjustments in the case, which seems to be more strongly opposed to the majority of the items. It's a little special because I can't hear anything else from the government's words than that they feel it's necessary to make adjustments in the direction being suggested. Once again, we're about to realize that because of where the changes come, the government groups do not trust to support the necessary and effective changes here in the Senate Hall. It's a sad reflection, Mr. President, how the majority of the people work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u74	A respectable president. I just want to come up here to tell you that this is about the change in the memory of the part that's good. I kind of give it to myself that everyone really agrees that it's good. For some reason, the politics of Iceland are still such that the greater part, that there is some physical laws, cannot accept an adjustment that comes from the lesser part of it, though it is good. I don't intend to claim that it always is, but it's a very important matter, an important group left behind. But, yes, it's time for you to pass this good change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u75	A respectable president. Ever since I started my work here at the General Assembly in 2013, I have constantly been amazed at how much more part is once, and not just this part, but in general, often it is more important to finish things here at the Senate Hall, which will not be meaningful until later, but to consider more carefully the tables. Also, I have to say that some community groups have to get used to being a little too much to always be left over, that somehow they need to be taken care of later. One of these groups is disabled people. It would be a good thing for us to just finish this case because we have the time, the suggestion, and so there's no point in trying a little longer and a little more. The Senate work is not now in this traditional spring situation, where meetings are beginning to dam up and do anything. We can do this, it'd look great if we did this. It would be good for our clients if we did this. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Let's just do it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u76	A respectable president. As we're in the smaller parts here, we're used to our proposals being dropped and we're just staring at the molar, we're used to it, we're living it almost every day. The other is worse, it's equal. This is not an equality issue that has to do with the power ratios of the council. It's an equal case that has to do with disabled children.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u77	Mr. President. I think it's really hard for me to be told we're not supposed to worry that it's not gonna be handled. Then, more is going to make the suggestion, but it says, "Don't worry. " It just doesn't make any sense, Mr. President. I was standing here this morning talking about how we could build the trust of the public at a council if we began to change our way of ruling and work a little more together than the government has to do with it. Why stop a good thing and then say, " Don't worry, we're going to do it anyway? ' It's immature. It's unhealthy politics. Can we stop?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u78	A respectable president. In an effort to prevent obstacles to the access of disabled persons to stores and public institutions, an individual has launched the campaign Ramps. But what are we doing here at the council? Yes, we're putting up obstacles, waiting list for children. Now we say: Children with disability should wait, this will come some time later. I think we need to turn this whole thing around. They first, then we'll take the rest later. That's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u79	A respectable president. It sounds like the administrative part is getting a little ahead of itself, and maybe it's time to stop and breathe in the stomach. We're talking about a suggestion that disabled children with long - term needs have the right to perform the same ministry in both homes. Based on the words of the senators, they feel righteous; they think that disabled children enjoy this service in both places. I suggest, a respectable president, that there be a recession and a vote on this matter, so that a greater part of the government allows an opportunity to bring the matter back to a committee before he sails in the perfect coast of bringing up a legal arrangement for which all decent people should support. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u80	A respectable president. It's not possible. Of course, it is not that people do not want to meet disabled children. Yesterday's discussion of how complicated it was was was was was. There is a time later just because this code has to be reviewed and more. For instance, the new proposal mentioned below is presented in the box below. Children's Minister of Affairs, but this is a top-level bill. There are others. It's a good thing. We all agree on that. It is clear in the committee that these adjustments need to be made. I trust each other. A top-of-the-art Board of Education in this case. Let's agree to accept this important and good, and if it had been before. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[The point is: Yes, though it had been before.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u81	A respectable president. Of course, my hope and affection for the handling of this matter on the committee were the whole time that we reached this group. I'm still going to allow myself to have the hope that there will be a conclusion. In this light, I'm going to suggest that the proposal be restored to a committee for further treatment there and try to see if the committee can't join in the continuation process. In that light, I withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u82	Mr. President. consumer products have suffered a lack of vision and a lack of clear policy. Like this bill and with unformed, vague ideas about the future of the Lottery, the government has been characteristic of government action over the past few years. They're moving projects from the Nettorium to institutions that in some cases have not shared. What targets, e.g. to be achieved by moving the safety of toys and strudels from the consumer lab to the Homeland Institute as suggested? We in the United States suggest that the bill be dismissed and immediately started working with careful consumer policies, as has been called for years. Necessary issues for public good and willingness, as this bill shows, cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u83	Mr. President. There is a fine report on the opinion of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter, including that they are not really prepared, a lot of work is needed in this area, and it is suggested that the taking of the case be postponed. I agree with that, and, of course, will support the modification proposals of more part and argument more than is given in the light of these arguments, do not vote for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u84	Mr. President. Do you know who's an elbow child of Icelandic politics? It's consumer business. They are always to succumb to special interests or to religion that the number of government institutions should always be reduced, as this is so. The consumer organizations seem to have serious doubts about this matter. And why not listen to them? Why don't we go the other way? Why are we weakening Nite Owl rather than strengthening it? We're all consumers, but our interests may be too scattered to pass through the Globesman and the noise here at the council. Mr. President. It may tell you a story, we don't have any consumer minister in this government, but we have a field minister, a seafaring minister and a trade minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u85	President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in defense law. This is the second time I recommend the bill, and with me, as before, there are other members of the council of the United States left green. That's why. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir. The bill assumes a change in two branches of the law. First of all, 3rd of us. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: ▪ All books and additions to the defense agreement shall be passed on by the Allied Parliament for approval. The same applies to due agreements and any agreements that include a change in the implementation of the defence agreement. It is not permitted to deviate from the arrangement on the basis of 2 mg. This article Secondly, by chapter V of the law, there will be a new article, paragraph 16. a, as well as a heading, as follows: ▪ Building up and implementing manpowers of the Atlantic Alliance, etc. All structure and activities beyond the normal maintenance of security areas, defence areas, the construction of the Atlantic Union, as well as other comparable projects and structures, should be carried out under the General Assembly for approval. It is not permitted to deviate from the arrangement on the basis of 2 mg. 3rd gts and 1st President. So the bill assumes that what is not directly settled in the defense agreements or what is not exactly a normal maintenance or maintenance which can be considered normal, but is some sort of addition, building, and books with the contract should be agreed upon by the General Assembly. Iceland is an international member of the Atlantic Community, certainly, and has as a member of the Member States. The defense agreement refers to a contract between the Republic of Iceland and the United States on the basis of the Northern Atlantic Convention on May 5, 1951, as well as its addition, which stipulates the duties of Iceland as a member of the Member State. But additions and books to that agreement have failed to find their way into a Senate hall. It must be unnatural for the lawgiver, who works here, to never get anything to say about it. You see, it is interesting - and not everyone may realize that even though someone may recall it from a discussion about this subject last year, which was a very good discussion, so that I can make it clear - that in recent years, the discussion of defense has been primarily focused on the words, i.e. Structural plans have not been discussed until after approval. So it is yearly that when the U.S. Congress approves of budgets, many in Iceland seem to realize that construction and construction have been established in the defence area. That's how we often heard about it. That is why, for example, there is no doubt about it. The reason that the General Assembly does not need approval for such construction, but the minister of the seminary is authorized to negotiate for Iceland. Hence, the changes in the nature of the defence agreement are not for the preconceived political discussion. President. Whatever the attitude of a person toward the presence of a military force and the building of workers in the area of defense, it must be a challenge for all to raise a democratic debate over defenses. The approval of the changes in Iceland's responsibilities also strengthens the basis for such decisions, whatever they may be. President. This issue is in no way about how people feel about the presence of troops in this country or the national defence agreement, but simply about what all of us must be able to join together, to increase democratic discussions, to increase the general approach to these matters, and that this is discussed ahead of time, not announced afterwards. Last time I spoke of this matter, I had hope, Mr. President, that it would be accomplished. I reasoned in view of people's words that they wanted to increase their discussions about defenses, and they wanted to raise these issues, that the matter might be more discussed and paid for by committees and council halls. Last night, President, declared people, including the highest. The minister of state is pleased with the very fact that defenses are discussed at the council. Therefore, I hope that what happened now that it did not happen then, that the case will be well discussed on the Senate committee, which, unfortunately, did not last not come to us and we will take over the task I think we are an overwhelming number of agreements that we are supposed to do, i.e. to take more responsibility for what has been called defense, the presence of foreign troops here, regardless of what our stand is like, troops or contracts there. I'm glad to speak again, Mr. President, even though the pleasure is bitter mixed in where I had hoped last year that we would simply have the wisdom to make the matter legal. But I hope that I can do better now and suggest that the matter be settled. The Foreign Affairs Committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u86	A respectable president. Even if we're what we're doing. In an article on the Atlantic Union, I believe that it is important for Iceland and me to take part in international cooperation as a result, as well as other international relationships like the European Union, but let it be between parts now, although it would certainly be interesting to hear the senator's position on the European Union on a better occasion. We are talking about social and economic agreements and cooperation, but the Atlantic Community is about defense and is primarily a defense alliance. The reason I'm coming up here is because I can rightly hear the senator speak that language repeatedly, and I think for the third time now, a second time, yes. The first move said "wow." A senator, including a member of the U.S. that it would be more important to get this through. I find this approach interesting. I declared it yesterday. I believe that it is normal for us to discuss carefully whether the council should be involved when extensive changes, projects, or actions are carried out in the defensive area of the defence agreement. I think it's normal development in democracies. We can understand this approach in 1949, but in this year 2021, it is only natural for me to find that democratically greater things reveal who the developments should be. That's why I'm asking. A senator: Has he tried to negotiate with members of his team? How do members of the government handle this matter? That's what I'm talking about. A senator willing to test the new greater part of this council today to pass this issue through, one of the most important things, according to him, in order to get it approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u87	Madam President. Thank you. Senator, I'm just going to let myself tell the support, at least to continue this matter and put it on a normal course within the council. I would do that and remember our conversations why. A senator last year. A senator took the matter in a positive way, even though we were informed of the presence of a foreign army in this country. I also cut it by how it happened. A senator talked about this yesterday, and I appreciate our ability to approach this matter together in spite of different viewpoints. That's exactly what I wanted more people to agree with. A senator on our involvement in the protective alliance of NATO, or the military alliance of NATO, with the presence of an army in this country, could see. It's not about that. It's about promoting the General, promoting a democratic discussion on the subject. I told the president in my letter that last year I was disappointed with the smell of the matter. I was disappointed that the matter would not be discussed further. State Department. I was disappointed that the matter would not come from the Foreign Affairs Committee to this Hall. Of course, I've talked to people in the collaborators, and of course I've talked to the defence minister of the jury about the fact that I was delivering these matters. I must read in it that the case did not make it through that not all share my opinion that this is one of these important issues. I'm going to try it now that people will know before I plan this plan B and C. I'm still working on plan A.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u88	A respectable president. You see, I agree with that in view that we're both people, I think, so individuals, that we want to secure democracy. We want to make sure of the discussion, and we count information, transparency, and conversation, especially in this important hall, of good things. I think it will not only increase the weight of democracy but its effect. I'm the spokeswoman that we're going to remain fully involved in the defense union, and I've often taken our seat at the NATO table as an example of our impact. We've weighed by being at the table. We have our voice there, and we have used it well over the years, although it has certainly been controversial, too. I think that by moving decisions to the hall across line lines, they can add insight. In the nature and role of the defense alliance, because now, most of all, NATO is facing a very big change. We're talking about chaos, Internet security, and climate. I would kill onTwetter that Stoltenberg was taking in, including, in John Kerry's convention and stressed that NATO needs to react and have further leadership in combating climate problems, so the nature of the situation is seeing the role of NATO changing. I'm just gonna hope so, end up with new threats too that we're facing. So I think it's important that the bill be heard. The senator will be granted payment. It's not like it's crazy to be with us on the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'll sit there, I've been sitting there for the entire season, and I'll say to what. A senator that I will make an effort to get a conversation, a conversation, and hopefully a physical and perfunctory deliberation of this proposal because I think it is simply part of the fact that we can have a perfunctory conversation and a discussion of the importance of an alliance as important as our defence team is among the NATO states.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u89	President. I feel like this conversation between me and what I'm talking about. The senator simply provides proof that the suggestion is good, that we approach the matter, i.e. Iceland's involvement in NATO and the presence of a foreign troops here, fully from their own perspective, but we agree that there is more to it than the general council should discuss and make further decisions on the matter. Hv. A senator speaks of our impact in NATO, and they matter, and I agree with that. In recent years the Icelanders have used their influence within NATO in the right direction compared with what has often been in the past. I've been happy inside. I am unhappy with NATO over his head, and I have a number of emphasises. Secretary of state, but the influence also comes with responsibility. And as we have an impact in NATO, we are also responsible for all that NATO does, not just work on equality or analysis of Internet security or conversations with John Kerry, but also air raids and invasions into other countries, as well as for people who are killed in Libia, Afghanistan, and Balkanganum, they have been discussed in this body hall like that. A senator knows. [[Up front.]] We cannot just say, our influence matters, and we are going to be involved in this modern and modern Internet security, and being hippies and bullets, but we also have to be responsible for nuclear weapons building, we have to be responsible for weapons production, etc. But there I am, materially speaking about the Atlantic Alliance. I might have wanted to continue the good conversation that was here yesterday regarding whether Iceland was going to remain a member of NATO. I feel like it again, as I say, conversation and our conversation are what it is. A senator shows the value of the matter. I think we're gonna do what. A senator should just write an article together on the subject. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u90	V.E.G. President. I'm still taking this case back with a very nice group of people. Senators. This proposal for interpretation reads, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ The General believes that it was wrong to propose a proposal for a lawsuit against counsellors, cr. Case 706 at the 138th legislature, which was approved in part as a Parliamentary resolution of No. 30/138 of September 28, 2010. This was the case with ministers who deserved an apology. To make a long story short, Mr. President, it's about the national court case called the Athlelah experiment or part of it to bring in some of the former Supreme Court. counsellors in prison. For good reason, I again bring the matter forward. It's about the basic democracy in Iceland. As noted in the motion, there is a number of reasons why the General concluded this way, recognizes that political trials are not valid, and that those involved deserve an apology, wherever it comes from. But the highest. President, not the one now sitting in the chair, but the highest. The President of the Generalis has taken it easy to apologize for something and I think it is now more than a decade after this event, an extraordinary one in Icelandic political history, to the highest level. The president apologizes for them on behalf of himself, if not of the Generals. The decision of the land shows that there was no basis for complaint on this matter. The entire arrangement there and the conclusion that the method of compromise was not valid. We can also see that the way this case is handled has not been handled in harmony. Of course, we know a number of cases of political decisions or of refusing to make decisions, neglecting them, and resulting in some kind of damage, economic damage, or other damage. But never before in this case did humans attempt to punish humans, to put them in prison because they had not dealt with certain matters or had the right view of them, not to bring the correct solution. And then there's the third thing I'd like to mention in my list of the flaws of this whole case. That's what it was like to vote on the subject. One of two things has happened there. Either by chance an amazing coincidence has led to the conclusion that only one of the four ministers who was endeavoring to accuse the accused in the end or what appears to be statistically much more likely and in reality, Mr. President, was that there were some involved in the process that only one minister, Geir H. Haarde, former prime minister, would be accused, despite having been jointly discussed with the ministers on the whole of what was proposed. This leads to the fourth point mentioned in the proposal. It is a threat to democratic government in Iceland if it is permitted to lie unspoken on the part of the Generals that an attempt to put an active or former politician in prison because of political decisions or indecision is made. Despite the lack of any intention of causing harm, the General would agree that there is an increase in political justice due to the determination or determination of the politicians. I remind you that the only thing that remained, after all the treatments at the national court, was that the case had not been specifically booked at a government conference. I'll find out later, Mr. President. What would be the effect? What would be the result if we felt that it was acceptable to punish humans, even trying to get them sentenced to prison, for having wrong views or for failing to carry out what is desirable, after considering, would have been doing under certain circumstances? There are many political movements that fight for a devastating cause. In such cases, of course, it would be best for humans to do nothing, or at least, but following their own cause, he knows to do a great deal of damage. But should we start making political policies, attitudes, even political deliberation, criminal punishment? No. If we were to do so, how should we respond, for example? Is there a Communist or some hard-lining movement here at the council? Are these people to be granted the democratic authority to be punished by illegal and penalized, resulting in the coming of such a government? I thought it was extremely dangerous, Mr. President, and harmful democracy, in fact, a threat to democracy, as mentioned in the Congress resolution. I was not a sponsor of the government or of the Ministers who were endeavoring to come to prison in 2010. On the contrary, Mr. President. I strongly opposed the government, its policy, and its inactivity. I considered them, as I now believe, that the right reaction was to bring such a government down in elections, not to try to put the counsellors in jail. Sadly, though, some of the developments, even to a large extent, have been developing in recent years. Therefore, I feel that this case is as urgent today as it was ten years ago. The tendency to sort people into groups and judge what they do or don't even do, or say or don't say, from whose point of view has been very aggressive and at the expense of a prince who is going to be hit. This is a prince thing, Mr. President. It's about my political opponents, people I thought were important to come from power at the time, but it could never agree that they would be held accountable for their political policies, actions, or inactions. You can criticize and discuss the matter and cause the outcome of elections without trying to put politicians in prison. Despite the conclusions I made earlier, in which in some very strange way managed to ensure that one of the four advisers would be accused, two of the six accused were immediately dismissed from the part of the national court. They did not pass inspection. They were not even qualified to be discussed. The minister was acquitted by three accusers. One was left standing. And what was it, Mr. President? It was that at that time the prime minister had not written specifically at a government meeting about the financial crisis that was then in all the media each day, as if the government had not had any idea what was going on in the world, since prime minister had not booked it. So the conclusion was that these instruments were not all entitled to do so. In effect, the sentence, as it were, seemed to be violated, no more than the responsibility was that no punishment was made, and the decision was made that the State should pay all the expenses involved, which are related to its history. Some comment on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on this matter: It has nothing to do with abnormalness and is unacceptable to do political justice in Iceland because the decision of the European Court of Human Rights was to the trial for national justice, whether or not to have been by law. That's not what it's about. This is about the case here at the General Assembly and that the Council has decided that it would be a political hearing. Then there is the discussion that all of this was somehow an incomprehensible consequence of an old antiquated law on national law, forcing the council to do this. Despite all the evidence involved, this would have been an inevitable consequence of a national law. This is quite false, Mr. President, and strange to hear yet ten years later such claims, even to the point that now there is a debate about the change in the constitution associated with this, that changes in national law are in some way responding. It's not. Geir H. Haarde was not charged with violating a national law. He was charged with violating legal laws on the rights of the minister of responsibility and general penalties. If there had been no national judgment, the case would simply have been taken to general courts. In fact, it has been mentioned that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, a former prime minister, has been talking about this for a long time and the problem with national justice. However, if you consider what was included in Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's comments to form with her proposals here at Congress in 2001, they became too difficult to accuse a minister. A national judgment and this arrangement would be a prerogative. It would have to be easier for a political trial, and even the proposals were so insane that a smaller section of members of Congress could decide that the Ministers and the council would also order their own judges. Mr. President, it may be said that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir may have been ahead of his time because this is the trend that we see in politics way too far. Dooms and divisions are all permissible to some groups, but not even to criticize others. I think it's extremely important that this case be completed, Mr. President. But why hasn't it been done yet? Why have I recommended it repeatedly so as not to mention the entire story mentioned earlier? Won't the greater part of the Council want it done? Does this relate to two of the leaders of the governments, the leaders of the governments, trying to put the former members of the Independence Party in prison? So they don't want to discuss this matter? Mr. President. It's a prince's case that needs payment at the council. I hope that there will be a rapid progress in the relatively short time left in Congress. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be addressed. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u91	Mr. President. I would like to propose a synoptic resolution on a panel on climate matters. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concluded to assign the president of the General Assembly to appoint a Senate committee to offer proposals for Iceland's climate promotion to the United Nations Climate Conference held in Glasgow in November 2021. The Parliamentary Committee will appoint one member of the Parliament. The role of the Commission must be discussed and proposed on Iceland's climate agendas for the United Nations Climate Conference. The Commission shall take into account the objective of the Paris meeting. The Commission will define the main executives of the policy and provide suggestions on Iceland's goals for the next ten years and ways to achieve them. The Parliamentary Committee meets no later than May 1, 2021, giving proposals to the Presidency Committee as soon as possible and no later than September 24, 2021. The proposals will be completed to the General Assembly in the form of a synonym and prime minister assigned to guide them in the shape of Iceland's protest on the climate convention. Mr. President. There is a need for a broad political discussion on the importance of Iceland's climate issues during the next United Nations climate conference in Glasgow, held in November 2021. The meeting aims to establish its course for the next ten years so that the aims of the Paris Convention will be met. The newly elected president of the United States, Joe Biden, may have stressed that the United States is having a full share and responsibility when it comes to the aims of the Paris Convention and the European Union, taking pride in making the arrangement a major success and evidence of it has made the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson the major subject of its international work. Other neighboring countries in Iceland have set ambitions for falling emissions of greenhouse gases and have set policies on 63% reduction in 2030 compared to 1990, and the declared objective of the government is to reduce greenhouse gases by 70% over the same period. Mr. President. It is important that Iceland attends the meeting with ambitious climate policy and a clear, fully funded plan of action in the seminary. Iceland is a special unit for renewable energy use and has the opportunity to take major steps in the next decade. But it has to start right away because it is necessary to take immediate action toward the ambitious Iceland policy that will be introduced at the Glasgow meeting. It will be in the hands of the next government, not the one who works today, to participate in a planned climate conference. Therefore, it is not enough that existing government groups alone run the policies to be held at the conference in November 2021. Rather, they need to begin as soon as possible in order for Iceland's position to become widely established. It is also so once, Mr President, that the jury is so important to Icelandic society that I do not speak of international society and international states, both in the present and in the future, that the Congress and its members need to be present. Therefore, the president of the Parliament is proposed to establish a panel of members of the General Assembly, as stated earlier, who are considering and having access to Iceland's targets and policies and language on the scene of the climate agreement. This committee will ensure that all political groups will be able to prepare for the international conference and seminary because we need to emphasize that, with the most broad agreement and diverse views, Iceland's climate policy and the UN climate conference at Glasgow in November 2021. Mr. President. I understand the Parliamentary proposal will go to the end. Environment and Transport Committee. I'd like the members of the committee to do that. A committee on the Parliament's resolutions rapidly because it is now urgent that this important conference be ensured by this council's resolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u92	A respectable president. I strongly recommend here again for a bill for a change in local government law, specifically for civil meetings and local elections on unique matters. At 108st. There are two points related to this matter in rural politics, one called civil meetings, and the other on the subject of unique elections. The article itself bears the title The Early Code for the populous community. There are two subsets on this matter, which are thought to be made up of the representatives of the bill, the Congress of Porta, which is the condition of a civil meeting and the establishment of the election. When it comes to civil meetings, 1st mg shows up. 108. g. A rural government-shaped to wish at least 20% of those who have the legal right to a rural society after that local government will have it as soon as possible to hold a civil meeting and then follow the procedure by regulations of 105. g. Same song. 2 mg is also indicated. ... thatif 20% of the voters are elected by a community of general voters, the government will accept it no later than within a year of the success of the wish. The operators of the bill believe that there is no reason to bind the local community or set the limit for the percentages prescribed, 10% for civil meetings, and 20% for local votes. Instead, local authorities are suggested to clear up other percentages of their unions. The law itself contains the authority of a local community to raise the percentage needed to retain a local vote, but we have not found any evidence to support the lack of a percentage of rural society. As the bill's report shows, the country society in itself can vote, if necessary, even without any particular desire to pass on it. The same is true of civil meetings. However, there is a limit to not reaching the target for reducing the percentage. The citizens, the voters, residents of a rural society, have no opportunity to know what is expected of them in order to bring forward the Civil Conference or the Citizen's election. Suppose the voter lives in a rural society and wants to be elected for a certain case at random but reaches only 10% of the country's voters but not 20%, as the law says, the country society in itself can completely vote if it wants to. However, there are no formal processes around how to return signature lists or how to do them. Likewise, any country's choice depends on its country's vote. On the other hand, if the local community believes that there is a 10 percent rule in general, there is an equal rule between those who would maintain a regional vote on a specific subject, either not planning to do it or not reach the 20% target. The situation today is that if society wants to establish the principle that 10% of the country's voters can bring up a local vote on a particular matter, then the community can't do it according to these specific laws. It would be possible to test it with some kind of political declaration that a unit member would need to betray when 10% came in. Instead, it is normal to change the law in order to recognize the right of rural society in order to have a lower proportion in their approval of what is expected of its inhabitants when it comes to the drive of inhabitants or civil meetings. It is also worth considering that democracy in general is important that the clients of the democratic system, i.e. Those who are affected by its decisions, who know their preconceived rights, that it is formal processes that can presuppose how to drive the rest or this vote or vote and with what effect. When residents of a community, voters in a nation, or people in general, ask a prayer file or a petition to the authorities who decide for themselves the course of the matter, whether the request is accepted and what the effect will be, the democracy is much weaker, I suppose, than the people realize. One of the most clear examples of this may be in countries that in themselves are elected, individuals, or classes, but with the premonition that someone else decides who will qualify. That's how it is, for example. of Iran. Now, I'm not comparing the situation here to Iran, but just taking an example of how something can damage democracy very easily by a very simple rule that seems reasonable to some. There the clergy decide who can make themselves available, and then voters can choose those who are available. It is called democracy, at least by the authorities, but is not, in effect, because of the fact that, in the final analysis, there is no decision in the government. It's the foundation. For democracy to work, it must be possible to go against the will of those who have authority at one time. It is fundamental in democracy itself. I want to reiterate, a respectable president, that Iran is merely an extreme case and is not comparing it with the circumstances here. Similarly, the experience in my opinion is that when it comes to a adviser's vote - which I consider to be the moral obligation of the authorities to follow, so that it is said - that authorities often feel very simple and easy and readily and clearly that they can simply ignore the decision of a national law, as it happened here in 2012, and rather have remained the standard ever since. This was a national agreement, but it was a counselor, and voters were not asked whether certain laws should stand or fall, or if an specified document should be legally established or not, but the questions should call out the national will which would be intended for politicians to understand, end up in Icelandic language, if that is the case. As a result, in 2012, politicians, at least more, have ignored their decision. Sadly, that is not unique. It is shocking and incorrigibly in my view as democratic. This, however, is what happens when there are no extenuating processes around the democratic system itself, and authorities are prepared to take the political risk of ignoring the voters' wishes at one time. When it comes to deciding whether to vote for a citizen, a national bill, a civil conference, or what one is more important, the process is clear. Otherwise, the competent authority of the government is at risk. Thus, a group of members of a local community who want to vote for a particular matter, but more than 15% of the people in that rural society, they could get their own vote because the local community, or those elected in their administration, feels all right, but the local society can clearly reject the request of another group who want to vote for another matter and also achieve 15% more ideals. Now it can be reasoned that the country society consists of elected representatives who have that authority. Legally, you're right. It can be viewed as such, but it is harmful for democracy itself that the city does not act in its rights and that the city itself, the voter himself, cannot predict the consequences of its democratic actions, such as to form them in collecting signatures and trying to impose a vote, a national vote, or whatever it may be. It is very important that our laws are clear in this regard. I agree that what could possibly be my final point in this speech, with a warning that I might think of something else, but it is that citizens need to be able to read the law and understand it correctly. In our constitution, there is a law that seems to express a very common sense, something that some might find strange to have in the constitution over their heads because it is so obvious, but it is that the law should be published. Iceland's constitution says the law should be published. In Iceland we now do not know the arrangement for law to be unpublished. We do not know the arrangement that there is a law in some document box somewhere in the Ministry and that the city needs a special license for legal access. It is fundamental that the city has access to laws free and free of charge. This is precisely because for law to work, the city needs to know who they are. If not, the government would have tremendous interest in society, even though the Law code was exactly the same as it is today. The lack of knowledge about the law is an independent problem for the citizen and a continuation of the law. Also, the poor citizen's ignorance festers the consequences of his democratic actions, such as collecting signatures, from the democracy itself. This needs to be clearly ahead of time. There must be direct legal consequences of democratic actions. Legally, the result must be directly affected by the law. The situation in rural law is now that it is quite possible for a rural government to arrange the arrangement in a more democratic way, but the law insists strictly. However, it is a problem, a respectable president, that if the city reads Iceland's official law, he won't see his own advantage in the situation at any given moment, even if a unit has decided to bring in a diplomacy on his own. This is a problem for the same reason that it would be a problem if only more than any part of the law were revealed than any part of it did not. That's exactly the same problem. This reminds me, and I have to mention it here because it came up so recently, that we set up new legislation on digital sexual abuse or graphic sexual abuse, that there were a few members of the council that said what has been said by some lawyers in the past, that the act we were forbidding had already been banned. I'm not going to have many words about this, a respectable president, end of another matter. However, this illustrates the ease of the government's attitude - even well - educated senators and well - educated lawyers - in the light of blurred laws or legalizers - can undermine the rights of the citizen to seek and protect his rights. Of course, law should be as clear as possible for citizens. Of course, it is important that the city be able to consult the Generals' website or other sources of laws as they really are and not have to have either a university education in law or an investigation of the court's court order to recognize its rights and duties. It's a lousy position, a respectable president, and just recently we've heard talks here in a pita that show the importance of it and how easy it is for the authorities to overlook the fact that the public has to know their democratic rights and even according to general penalties. A respectable president. Otherwise, I refer to a previous discussion on the same subject. This is not the first time the case has been submitted. I'd like to finally mention them why. Councilmen who present the case, who are the ones who stand and why. The members of Bjöln the Leví of Gunnarsson, Jón Þór the son of Ólafsson, Elísa Þórðardóttir, the daughter of Thordur, Smári Mccarthy, and Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avvar. Finally, I suggest that the case be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u93	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in various laws because of support for smaller domestic alcoholic products. Transporters are three years old. The council members, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristunnsdotir, and the man standing here, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. A respectable president. This bill is similar to the bill of Minister of Justice, which has already been introduced and implemented by the General Education and Education Committee, which is primarily going out to provide smaller safe homes wide and wide around the country, i.e. Carpets, selling their product at a manufacturing site. What's different with this bill, and it goes further in various ways, first of all, that the rocking houses which have the authority to be classed as hand mills produce a maximum of a million gallons of calendars, and then we'll be able to cover all the crafts that are operating here. It may be noted that there is an organization here on a country called the European Workshop Association. They draw the line at a million gallons [ million L]. This bill discusses alcohol production. We're dealing not only with alcoholic drinks but with the production of alcohol up to 40%. Second, the bill handles a certain event that turns to the discount of alcohol charge, up to 50%. We feel that with this change, we will provide more support for the construction of hand mills. It promotes work in the country and also gives companies the opportunity to do certain development jobs and innovations and things like that. There is a great increase in alcohol production in the country and there is also alcohol production in the form of alcohol, e.g. The houses and the producers have been multiplied. They have increased in number over the years. The bill is one of the factors involved. contributes to rural development, but it is designed to contribute to further employment as well as a greater range of employment opportunities across the country. As mentioned earlier, most smaller alcoholic manufacturers are located outside the capital area. On the bill at the highest. The Minister of Justice, now in operation in the General Information and Education Committee, has already entered 40 reviews. Of course, these matters are rather related than the very issues that we present should, of course, be more specific. Minister of Justice and strengthen the committee to consider further possibilities in how these items can be handled on the land, how far we should go, etc. The extent to which to allow sales for alcohol is always considered, but with this bill, these items must be followed and, in this context, we talk about the amount that humans can buy at the manufacturing site. The bill speaks of taking a six-pack, e.g. A beer of beer from the manufacturing site. In this context, it is this way that most of the modern farming houses, crafts operating far and wide around the country, can be taken into their home, alcohol free, and bought with them, but not to take them away. Also, in this context, we can point out that it has been a real problem for a smaller house to get their product to the NTVR stores. We all know that there is some particular beer connected with, for example. Easter, cod, and any particular component, that is some special low production that can fit in on HTVR. But in order to be in there, you have to get through a certain American there, reach a certain amount of sales, etc. and then, people have been able to get stockers to the ATVR stores, but then there's a lot of fleas in this rocking culture. In the present system, it's very difficult to present the product, so I believe that with the bill presented here, and I would also like to say that it is in the highest bill. Minister of Justice, we are quite opening the door and letting men go a little bit with these things. A figure has been asked whether this can have a negative impact on human health, but I'm not afraid of it. It has this product, like any other product, that education about her treatment is number one, two and three. If these things are handled well, I don't think there should be any major adverse effects on human health. We made the bill, saw how things are in Europe from our neighbors, and we watched, for example. To Denmark, to Britain, to the European Union. They have these documents available for a crafting house, i.e. access to sale at the manufacturing site as well as discount from alcohol charge. It's been there for quite some time and it's only done quite well. Norway has rules about these things, but the key is that the crafts are not part of some larger kit. That's where they have to draw the line. In terms of the public health issues, I'm stressing that I believe with this bill, and it's also been observed by the highest level. Minister of Justice when she followed her loaded bill, not to be deemed evidence that it should have some effect on human health, but also that it is always true of these products as well as of others that they need to show respect for it and to walk with it wisely. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much further. I'll put this bill here, and it'll go to what? The General and Education Committee, I expect, for a discussion of the good bill. Minister of Justice is already. I also reiterate that in the bill I find very valuable to view, which turns to a reduction in alcohol costs, and that men look to a million gallons of the maximum, so that all of these smaller crafts can fit within the range of what is being covered here. Again, I remind you that the Icelandic Citadel Association draws a line, with a million gallons [4 L] in it. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u94	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Ingi Þórarinn don't know what I'm Pétursson about, but I don't like it. One of the most successful senators we have. But I have to say, I feel like this bill, just like the prime minister, half-naked. It's just half-naked. We're always half-assed when it comes to selling this product. It may be said that there is no Western democracy, a free state, with alcohol laws as we do, even in the North countries. And we are somehow trapped in this rather than simply making a decision to eliminate the government's exclusive rights for selling alcohol. Of course, that's the only thing that's smart, because it's completely absurd to me that the state alone is selling alcohol. This bill is good as far as it goes, but here it's just talking into a particular group. What will those who produce more than a million gallons? What should the Allegory pay? It just tells you that it's half-naked. We're trapped in some past, and I, of all people, am supposed to be the stone man. We're completely trapped in some past. It is only this dominant tendency in Icelandic politicians to limit or even forbid anything that a person might be able to abuse or not know his way around. Where does it end? There is a requirement for taxing sugar more than that. In the end, the discussion may be that sugar and candy are only sold at certain government stores. Today, a strong discussion in the community about banning a slot machines because some people play their butt out of their pants. It's always that way. Those who use this as entertainment are no longer allowed to do so because someone is not in control of himself. We have to stop this. Of course, this case is just one little smell and that's why I call it half-naked. Let people be responsible for themselves. It is by far the most popular, also from long-term public health issues. Our self - deception is complete in this matter and in these journals. We don't do advertising. Hv. A senator spoke of being able to present goods only by being allowed to sell at the level of production. Why don't we walk all the way, huh? Senator? Why don't we say: Of course they can only sell it. It's like this everywhere, all over the world. The firm has a presentation and a deal. Of course it's the only thing who knows. No, we don't allow advertising. We weaken the competitive position of the Icelandic media because the media that run around the world only handles the advertisements, the TV programs we watch about advertising. In the name of public health bans, we use advertisements as if it had something to say other than that Icelandic companies lose competition for advertising. We're not in the ancient age, we're in the Stone Age when it comes to these matters. We must accept this and accept that, like many other products, alcohol can abuse people. There's nothing more complicated than that. It's a little bit like the government's pharmaceutical store. I remember a time when no one was taking medication except the government's pharmaceutical store. We are now talking about selling painkillers in public shops, a general painkiller. There's nothing wrong with that. That's just fine. We're all using painkillers. I think in every home there's medication because we always feel it. Of course, medication can be abused, and alcohol can be abused. We're trapped in this, people just wave something and say, "This is a public health thing, and research shows something. So when you ask, it's always just some experts who have studied it. True, they are all opposed to increasing the availability of alcohol. We have increased bioavailability marvelously, having much more bioavailability than before, though it was all stately. The conclusion is that the use of alcohol in young people has only been reduced, and this was the main problem, a heavy alcohol consumption of young people. No, they can't. They can't put it in our face forever. Let's stop it. Let's stop being so bad afterwards. Let's just get together, huh? Senator. We can make a simple bill. Of course, they've been tried, but they always land on the same wall. Hv. A senator can start with a simple bill on the delinquency of the state's private sales on alcohol, that everyone is allowed to sell alcohol, but, of course, the values of the same rules cannot be sold under 20 years of age, etc. Let's just start with everybody selling alcohol and, of course, people can advertise this product like all other goods. Once we've done that, I can assure you what. A senator that after a month, no one would want to go back. Just as with the beer, today no one comes to mind: No, we have to stop the beer business, society is going to hell over this beer deal. But we never get to take this step that's so normal, and sure. We're completely trapped in some ancient concept of life, and it's all about having someone to abuse the product. And while we did not drink, there would be nothing to reduce, there are just as many who abuse the product. They just find other ways or abuse other drugs. The reason we misuse something like this is that something else is wrong, not that the product can be advertised, or that it can be sold by other people from the state. It's so crazy. It is, in effect, heavier than tears. This is so stupid. Let us always be beaten by some old test to make it important to limit bioavailability. I don't know that we're less drunk than other nations because we have such strict laws. No one has to tell me. I've been around the world. We're caught in this mess, and that's not the only mess we're stuck in. But it's become such a difficult and real annual discussion here at the council. Ever since I started Congress in 2013, men have been trying to get a little bit of this nonsense out of their minds. Everything's gonna get crazy, it's always gonna be the biggest case, always. I can be sure that somewhere, there's gonna be a lot of opposition to this little thing, which I call half-naked. You can't think of someone selling alcohol other than ATVR employees. If there were any others who would do so, the nation would be filled with fill. These reasonings just don't work. This is so terribly stupid and illogical it would be half enough. I suggest that people who are reasonably civilian get together and take the step of removing the government's exclusive rights for drinking. The Kingdom can continue to have its own stores if it wants to, if it counts as worth anything. The government can do that on my behalf, but being bound by private rights in this case is exactly the same as the exclusive. Who thought of having the government's exclusive rights at the V.C.R. in his day? Men fought against him to cut him off. How did they come up with that? Yes, they were worried that it might hurt if a private person would do anything in a photon. It's just the same thing here. We don't have to worry about this. I may not be going to put myself against the bill, but it's just a terrible half-naked thing. Senator, a bit progressive. But all right, it's a good thing if you get the candidates a little bit ahead. So when you talk to the people who call themselves the liberal reformers, they can't even, like, many of them, not everything, thinking of having a normal business environment around alcohol. Even those who call themselves liberal reformers. Sometimes you don't know what world you're in. I think it's a lot more than just that you should say it, instead of having all these restrictions, you know, say, "Hey, we just stopped selling alcohol." It can be harmful. Let's just stop. I think it's a far more sound view than creating some kind of restriction around it, which, of course, have nothing to say. I could understand a lot better when they say, " Let's just go back to the ban. ' Much healthier. We only forbid this unless you get a prescription for alcohol, and then we make up some territory, what's the name of the drugs, a drug area, which is now one of the confusion. But all right, maybe it's the way of not only to forbid it and to illegalize alcohol, but then you can get drugs in consumers. I might suggest that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The wearer of Níelsson's son, who is one of the most outstanding members of the council I hold here in this fine and excellent Council. In the countryside, where I now find myself at home, I am a farmer and a candidate, they often say that a gypsy jacket is the best, and certainly some take less steps and fewer on the way to a brighter time. At any rate, this is a step in the direction of the day. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson spoke of earlier. I hope he can agree with me that this is the first step. I can agree very much with what he said before about a particular product, whether it is alcohol, sugar, or anything else. It's all about having a measure of respect for the product they handle each time. It's always that way. And when it comes to public health, education is number one, two, and three in making good use of these products. It's number one, two and three. Hv. A member of the United States asked me if we could agree that this is at least the first step. If you want to go further, at least There have been quite a few discussions about these things. In fact, candidates have provided a bill that goes a little further than the prime minister of justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u96	V.E.G. President. We can call this a chicken step. Yes, we can use phrases like a gypsy jacket. It's all right. Of course, my step is just to cut off the private rights. It's a small step and it's very simple. I'm not talking about it being in any grocery store. We can call it a step to undo this, and that's why I said I wasn't going to put myself up against the bill, just far away from it. But it's a little tired of me being in this half-naked, which also discriminates men, depending on how big the companies are, how much they make. Why, then, does that not apply to all manufacturing sites? That's what I find most of all. I must say, these are often used to argue that these are not ordinary products. It's food. Everyone in the great world looks at beer, red wine and white wine which usually buys, just part of the food. But you can feel alcohol if you drink plenty of it. Then all of this starts to tick, that we can't allow this, that it must be banned. Let's stop it. I've always said, when people talk about public health, that the public health problem is not a product of themselves. There is something behind our misuse of these products.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u97	A respectable president. Why does this not apply to everyone? It sounds like I've come to answer to myself. This is the word backwards. You have to forgive it, Mr. Honorable President. But in these ways: Why do not all of this apply? As for the liquor, we can look to it - and I think we can do it, okay? A senator - that in handmade crafts, each unit is normally more expensive than the big fabbit. That always tells itself. As a result, it is also very important that some indiscriminate houses be reduced to the point involved in drinking. The second issue, however, is to dissuade the State's monopoly from selling alcohol. If we're going to this show too, I'd like to ask why. A senator whether he is not following that route regarding the less production and the full production of the originals, since we have a fixed peak and a handwork. We can, for example. Also, move this directly from a farm where you can handle your meat products, vegetables, or whatever it is. There's some people who need some kind of coincidence, e.g. taxicating impulse, to have money for what they're doing. I'd like to go with it for what it is. A senator if he can't agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u98	V.E.G. President. Yes, I want to do anything for those who are producing something, provide people with jobs, because I'm a social interest in it and even though they're producing alcohol. I just want to contribute in general the initiative of people, people who are producing something, have some innovations. However, there will then be a normal environment for such production; being able to become available, introduce its products, etc. I'm all here because I think the government fund gets it all back. Thus the State should approach the job, allow it to take the initiative, allow it to flourish. This may be especially important for weaker settlements. Of course, it is easier in many ways now, when fiber - optics, telecommunications, and energy are all there, for the job life flourishing more in the country. This brewing is one of those occasions. I think it's a great idea, and it's just a great thing. I want to do everything I can to improve the prospects of these companies. That's why I like all of this, huh? Senator. I'm ready for a bigger operation than this, so it's more likely to thrive in the beautiful settlements of the country instead of somehow sucking it all into the Big Rygavik area. There are possibilities. I agree with it all.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u99	There is no need to excuse the counterpart, since there is very much room for an answer, and there is no need to direct a question or anything else. The only restrictions are that the speaker's speech is to be directed, not the answer, but only to the speaker's voice. Otherwise, you don't have to ask questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u100	Mr. President. If anything had been discussed. A senator has a sense of entertainment. [[Up front.]] For a moment, I thought that I was in the Versailles seminary club 50 years ago, where men threw out unshaven opinions without ever having to fulfill them. It's kind of surprising to me because of what I'm doing. A senator, of course, has worked on logic for the rest of his life. I don't know if it's age or something that's treating him like that, but the speech in itself was completely shaven. On the contrary, he spoke across all the public health issues, and he did rather downplay them. Now, public health issues are not something that comes from air, they're based on research, dampness, etc. Hv. A senator said, and it was one of the misdeeds in his talk that the supply of alcohol in Iceland had grown greatly because the State monopolitan had expanded. This is so wrong. The Kingdom Hall has set up several branch offices in the region to relieve the deportation of post offices. For the past 30 years, alcohol sales are in restaurants, and they should be. Senator to know. They've grown a lot. So it's not state cartel that's responsible for this increase, it's restaurants, etc. Do we want to go back for beer? No. But every year pure alcohol consumption per person in Iceland has doubled since 1989. What does it do? Speaking of public health, it's done a lot of cancer in Iceland. Cirrhosis has been reported. Now I know what to do. A senator agrees with me that Iceland should be a low tax rate. Then you have to ask, "How do you want it? " A senator meets the costs that will inevitably come from an enormous supply of alcohol? How does he want to face the health - care costs? Wants to play. A senator raises taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u101	V.E.G. President. We have the strongest alcohol laws in all the free Western world, the strictest. It's all about bioavailability and it's always said that research shows an increase in alcohol consumption. It may even increase the consumption of clean alcohol. If you can't get any alcohol without having a lot of money, you drink less. But that's not the problem. The problem is the misuse of alcohol. Cirrhosis has not increased at all here, and when it comes to the fact that pure alcohol levels have doubled since 1989, it must be taken into account that there are 2 million tourists here four times the nation. You can play with that. I'm just saying there's no problem with alcohol abuse in Iceland, despite strict legislation, but in other countries where it's all open. You can go to a grocery store and buy some alcohol. Suddenly, it has been found that increasing bioavailability increases consumption. This may be true in part, but it does not focus on the problem we are facing around alcohol. And then there's the difference, the alcohol consumption of young people. Research shows this, talking about research, so it's not logical.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u102	President. I'm glad I put myself on the rosary, for then I can trace more misinformation that happened. Senator. I'm most concerned about the misunderstanding. The increase in drug consumption - it has doubled, there were 3.7 litres of pure alcohol per person in 1989; 7 litres in 2012, and it was long before 2 million tourists began to arrive in the country; 8.4 litres a day. I think the tourists have a lung of 1.4 litres, which has been added since 2012. It doesn't change that the population consumption has increased dramatically. Hv. One senator says that we have the most extreme alcohol law in the world. That's not exactly true. We're on a couple with Norway, and we're on a couple with Sweden and Finland. Swedes, Norwegians, and Finns are a little lighter, they have the softest alcohol, the beer, at the grocery store. But in other respects, we have a government monopoly on alcohol, which is jealous in the eyes of many European countries, including those of Europe. published by the World Health Organization (WHO). What do these countries have in common that are so permissive? Yes, people usually live in it less than two or five years in Iceland. Now I must admit, Mr. President, that I love the Icelandic people so much that I want it to last a long time. Hv. A senator spoke a lot of things about those who abused alcohol, and I thought he was kind of cutting them over, and what to do with them, Mr. President? Why don't we lock them up so they don't drink and can't have fun for us, these cheap drinkers who don't want to know what we're doing? I said, "Cirrhosis." And "kno." A senator denied an increase in the number of cases of cirrhosis. I say what to do. A senator is going to the end of the surgeon general or to raise his phone to a surgeon and ask him. It has been shown that there was no cirrhosis in Iceland some decades ago, but it is now setting sail. Why? For a day's drinking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u103	V.E.G. President. If cirrhosis has increased so much, may it be because we have such stupid alcohol laws? Why does it grow when we have the strongest alcohol law in the free world? Because alcohol consumption increases when beer was allowed. [[Because people drink every day.]] He's drunk completely different, he's part of our food. An increase in alcohol consumption is explained that the people drink more beer and wine than ever before. [[Take it up to: And cirrhosis.]] All right. I don't care about this cirrhosis, people are just responsible for their own drinking. What I'm saying is that this is why the increased bioavailability will not change anything about it. Bioavailability is no problem, it's a camp all over the capital and restaurants at every corner. But men are still trapped in the fact that there must be an ATVR that sells this product. How do people feel that the public health of the nation is affected by the fact that workers in the TVR are the only people selling alcohol outside a restaurant? It's a bit of fallacy, and I've never heard other countries in Europe envying our alcohol law. No other nation can think of this nonsense, boy. A senator, and no part of the discussion, I hear that other nations are turning back from alcohol - trade for Scandinavian views. I've never heard that before. People laugh at us, unfortunately, for every reason to laugh at us. It's an ancient age. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson, and will have no effect on our human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u104	Mr. President. First of all, I'm happy to wake up. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son is a lawyer, not a doctor, because I would be deeply concerned about the health of men if he was a doctor. I would also be deeply concerned that a man like him would not accept public reports and public discussions. The British may laugh at us because of strict alcohol laws. The fact is, though, that the British are completely drowning in alcohol. There, alcohol - related problems are larger and greater than in most parts of the continent, and Britain usually survives five years less than among Iceland's population. But in itself I didn't mean to talk about it. I was only moved by the fact that when these language demonstrations are practiced here in the Generalist chair, which is open to all and that everyone can say whatever they want, you just have to kick it when it's handled in a square way. Cirrhosis doesn't matter, does it? paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. Well, it may well be that cirrhosis is not important. It kills people prematurely, and it may be what really matters in this relationship. The bill of Justice has been very much discussed in a committee where I sit, and the bill is like a traveling salesman who puts his foot in the door and then others come along and the hole gets bigger. And that was not the case, the advance party is here, and a prime minister of justice is offered better. Instead of offering half a million gallons [0.5 million L] of production, he makes it possible for a person to buy some more volume at the manufacturing site than a Minister of Justice offers. Then comes the second. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son and he just wants to open the door and sell everything to everyone, and there's no consequences. He did not answer my question about how to deal with health problems due to increased drinking, whether it should be done with higher taxes, or how to do so, because neither I nor I had. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son love high taxes. It was somewhere that there is no such thing as a free lunch. There is much to it, and there is no such thing as free drink because the person who drinks is influenced in many ways. If there are so many drinks and repeated, they'll cause health damage. I think if anything happens. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson would talk to a health care professional, just one healthcare professional, and would ask him if his head was drinking alcohol, small or moderate, health damage, he would get the answer that all alcohol abuse would be harmful, small too, only less harmful. There are probably 30 types of cancer that stimulate high levels of alcohol. It's also proved scientific, and I hope it is. paritaprevir Níelsson's armour is listening to me now, even though he's not in the hall, that the past year's drinking has been because women drink more than men drink. How does that work, Mr. President? This results in an increase in breast cancer because breast cancer is for example. including cancers that are stimulated by increased alcohol consumption. The 30 cancers I mentioned earlier are from the throat to the rectum, with several stops on the way. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son would have so little to read as one report, or just the main part of a report, from e.g. The World Health Organization, then, would hear and see the view I had in the past that a government dealer for alcohol, as in Iceland, is the envy of other nations. In fact, the World Health Organization has encouraged other nations to take up such a private sale. This is not because government workers are better qualified to sell alcohol than anyone else, but because of what we just learned, increasing access to alcohol increases problems. It doesn't matter whether alcohol is completely forbidden, we tried it over a period of time, but people drink it anyway. They muttered, they smuggled. You're absolutely right. A senator says that if you have a lot of thirst for alcohol, you can drink alcohol, no matter what you do, whether you order it in a country or abroad, whether you go to the State or go to a bar, he will get himself some alcohol. A certain proportion of the population, such a Sirka 18%, if I recall correctly, is having a problem with alcohol and is getting into it. Hv. A senator says: "Wine and beer are just like our food, and some of them show that they are not familiar with dieting but are not familiar with food. " It's obvious every man, e.g. the person mentioned in the talk chair may miss a meal and not be harmed. But it has nothing to do with it. Although I'm fat, I don't want food banned just because I eat too much. [[Up front.]] I didn't hear that. But if people think it's fate to want to control their consumption, I'll accept being a guardian. I'm against asbest. I'm really into the fact that men wear safety belts on the move. I want kids in baby seats. It's natural to be completely premeditated, I immediately admit it. But that's just the way it is, Mr. President, and this is the case with the former curator of the Department of Laws: Laws and regulations are often used to make sense to people. A lot of legal procedures we're going through here are actually designed to make sense to people. I'm not sure and I'm not convinced that in all cases it's always right, but it's done. Then I'll say again, "We're listening to a talk. ' paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, I jumped back for 50 years at a seminar at the Versatre Conference, where men were probably still talking about what was wrong that they couldn't get beer in Iceland, so it's said he's coming if they didn't question it, and spoke along and against it. You're absolutely right, I believe, most of the warnings we opened to a beer sale in Iceland have been made. Do I want to ban beer? No. Do I want to ban all alcohol? No. Nevertheless, we do well to learn from experience, and all learn from experience. Test rats learn from experience. They burn up four times, and then they find the cheese. Why should we burn on the same source over and over again? Speaking of taxes, what? paritaprevir Hermes, Níelsson's son, did not answer my question earlier. I asked him how he wanted to survive the rising medical cost of alcohol consumption in the future when we know that later steps we take will lead to health problems. Then we are naturally to do an article and assume it in our expense calculations. - Mr. President. I ask men to show me the respect not to have the noise in the hall. Other than that, I would like to say again that wanting to control alcohol by means of a sales arrangement may well be some of the precipices. So a lot of people say, especially those educated in medicine, especially those in the field of medicine and public health, and I say again, "It wouldn't kill a dog." paritaprevir However, Brynjar's Níelsson to read a headline from one World Health Organization report to provide and to be convinced of what an increased level of alcohol consumption is doing for his health. I'm actually sick of it - because there's been a couple of discussions here in the last few years at the Allied Council of Iceland about increasing freedom in drinking business, and it's all right with me, I'm just taking one bottle of red wine or something with me, but others don't handle it, but it's all right with me. May I quote Bjartmar Guðmundsson, Mr. President? ◯ I'm not one of those guys who fell asleep and I'm not one of those who wake up. Yet, it was observed that the fine man mentioned there was a significant drinking problem, even though the pressure may be that I am not an alcoholic for five bucks, in the blessaður song. But that doesn't change the fact that we're not thinking about whether I am or what I am. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson knew how to drink, or don't know how to drink. That's not what we're wondering. We are wondering whether the increased bioavailability of alcohol affects the health of the nation as a whole. On the other hand, we are not even thinking about the 18% given to be a problem. Rather, we are in general. Jónsson spoke of general success, and we should be concerned about general success. There's some kind of perimeter situation like me and what. paritaprevir Níelsson's Brynjar is not what it is and that one has one foot in the Stone Age, and the other has come on the other side is not everything. We should look at the consequences of what we agree on at each assembly. Actually, it came only sooner than I expected. A prime minister of justice is like a salesman who gets his leg to the door. I didn't expect the advance party to bring a clog just after that to get through the same door. But it happened. Of course, everyone is free to cancel, and that is what humans are able to do. Then I have to mention one more thing that was presented in a sermon. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. I've heard that point before, actually from a guest on the General Assembly committee, which we don't witness, but it's letting the big rocking houses in this too, to produce and open a small house. Mr. President. I have to say, it's just like making a suggestion that the Galasamal is allowed to open a branch next to Eagle. This is exactly the same, because if there's anything, there's two major restaurants in Iceland that have even bigger market share than the Galasama in their own area. They say, "Hey, why don't we just let Egill and Víkingur join us in the little workshops and pop those little spades all over the place?" Yet, these men are saying: " Hey, yes, we really want these little wands to grow and something like that, but they don't talk about their minds unless they're just talking in a circle, unless they don't know the facts or just have no idea what they're talking about. It's all possible. Then, 50 years ago, people come in with total delinquency and language exercises and say, "It's gonna be fine, everything's gonna be fine. And people's health, what is it? But that's just what I said before, I like the Icelanders, and I love them so much that I want them to live a long time. I don't want to shorten their lives by two or five years, usually. But that's exactly what's happening in neighboring countries, where everything is free and beautiful. Well, they've talked a lot about teen drinking, and luckily, we've been very successful there. Danir, English, Icelanders and Swedes are having trouble with other things, that is, elders'drinks. It is called Denmark, the wet generation. In the propaganda brochures, Dan has also the propaganda brochures for drinking less, this is the slogan: Don't drink like grandparents. It's the slogan. Don't drink like a grandparents, because the elders drink in the same place as here. Then I say again, I love the Icelanders. I want them to live long. I don't want us taking care of their chances for a long life. That's why I don't understand speeches like speeches. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson before, except for the entertainment which she had.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u105	A respectable president. I don't think it's my speech that's moved. A senator 50 years back. I suspect he's been back 50 years for a long time. I'm not sure that reading the World Health Organization's report would kill me, I think I would be bored of reading that report. They're completely trapped in the same print. There is no shortage of access to alcohol in Iceland. I wasn't discussing it, there's no shortage. The question is, must it be government employees who sell it? I'm just talking about taking over the private sale. The bioavailability is enough, and it is true that alcohol consumption has increased since the time the beer was allowed and normal. Still, we live longer and longer. I don't care what the World Health Organization says, people are totally trapped in their own pockets. It all depends on the fact that alcohol abuse is dangerous to people's health and lives. We know that. It's just like the food from what? A senator mentioned that he ate too much. How should we react? I'll just say what. Senator: You are personally responsible for your diet. I don't expect that, because we're dealing with obesity, it'll only be government employees selling food. No one can think of that. No one can think of, not even of a night. Senator, banning the beer again. I was listening to the same speech at the time. A senator and I heard here during the winter of 1989, when men were fighting beer, same speech, same public health. It's going back 50 years, not my speech. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u106	Mr. President. I may be 50 years later. If I were, I'd be drinking alcohol on a man in Iceland of a pure alcohol of 3.5 litres, which is 8.5 litres. Why is that? This is because the bioavailability has increased. Must it be government employees who sell this product? Not necessarily, but it's working really well. The Americans have a good saying: If that's okay, don't change it. And because I know what to do. A senator is an amateur of low taxes, and I'm just going to point out one point. It is stated in the bill now, or in the prime minister of Justice, that alcohol expenditures given to ATVR every ten days in the state funds - that was one of the first things that occurred when people were going to put alcohol in stores, e.g. with regard to the management board, the fact that there was no intention of returning any alcohol charge every ten days. No, they were going to do it like with the sink, every 60 days. However, that would have been of some impact, Mr. President, on government funds at any given time, apart from the fact that all care and supervision will be much more expensive. It will come, for example. ... inthe bill currently discussed in the General and Education Committee, that by opening up at a brewery, whether that amount of 500,000 or 1,000,000 litres they produce and sell, it requires a much more monitoring than it is today, it costs a lot more money for the state funds. I know why. A senator doesn't like it. But maybe we should just keep it down. It's just one idea, but I don't think it makes sense. Even though it was. A senator on the opinion of experts, I hope he doesn't do so in all other matters, however, the perplexing experts in many countries have pointed out the good effects of the Icelandic model and the Norwegian model in alcohol trade.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u107	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator mentioned that the amount of alcohol had been about 3.5 liters and is now 8.5 litres (U.S.). How long did the nation live 50 years ago? I'm just starting to think that the more drinking the people drink, the longer they live. Could that be? There may be some study to find that we drink more than we drank 50 years ago, and we live longer now than we did 50 years ago. Of course, that would not be a scientific conclusion. There are many other factors. But in these public health studies, where humans are always against this, people calculate exactly this, just find some place where drinking is smaller or greater and draw conclusions from it. I'm just saying that abuse of alcohol is always the same. There is a group who abuse alcohol, and I have always claimed that there are other reasons why people abuse alcohol or drugs above their heads; that all these sales, for just ordinary people, and this access is not a health problem in themselves. That's my opinion, and it's not even 50 years old at all. I'm not back 50 years. I'm just saying we have to admit that there's a reality. The reality is that we consume this product. It's part of our food culture. She's part of us. Some people abuse her. Absolute access is complete. But I just want us to stand equal in this, that this is a normal trade, a normal presentation of the product, etc. That's normal business.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u108	V.E.G. President. Inspection of the data. A senator is certainly not 50 years old, but she is as wrong as she was 50 years ago. It is indeed so, and now I'm just talking about a few last few years, that the life expectancy of Icelandic men has been cut for a few years. I'm not going to put it in the way of alcohol, but it might as well be. It is also true of the life expectancy of Icelanders, who used to be here and before, with the highest in Europe, that we are no longer at the top of Europe. We've given it up. Why is that? There is no clear explanation. I'll say again, what's wrong. In this discussion, a senator has presented a fallacy that is based on nothing. He denies scientific research, he denies public health research, and he just says, if I can put it that way, Mr. President. It's not good luck to be in charge. I say again, I hope so. A senator does not approach other matters by bringing down what experts have to say, bringing down the evidence that he does not agree with them. We all have a share here in this council hall to rely on a special opinion in and this better if we didn't. Usually, when we do not, we will become a problem, and we will know them from the decisions made by the Generals throughout the years that some have been lax. It has been an attack when the Council ignores the expert advice given, and the best decisions are made when the members of the council fail to heed the experts mentioned and give warnings.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of long ago and extensive speech, I think, a scale from A to Z concerning the consumption of alcoholic drinks and the public health. In terms of public health, I would like to direct it to what is happening. The increase in lifestyle - related diseases, obesity, cirrhosis, and many health problems today is naturally due to much less exercise than they did 50 years ago. I think most people can agree on that. They consume too much junk, whether for food or for drink. People don't eat healthy enough and move too little. This is the main factor in the growth of lifestyle diseases. At least that's how I understand the experts. I'm not going to belittle it if alcohol is consumed in excessive amounts or in drinking of a day. A drink of the day may have increased just because beer came to the market. But I'd also like to point one out, because that's why. I am now considerably younger than I am. A senator, but he remembers the days when a country was built all over, I'm raised to the country. After the beer arrived, the country disappeared. I wonder if the country was anything inside the alcohol waves. A member of the Parliament witnesses regularly?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u110	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has lived his life bread by producing a healthy natural product that is good for all to eat. As an amateur of nutrition, he should know that one of the first things to be said to people if they want to be offended is to take out alcoholic beverages because calories in e.g. Normal beer is an enormous number, enormous amount of beer. Many kilograms of lamb can be eaten without the same weight gain as alcoholic beverages. They suffer from life - style related diseases. A senator mentioned, obesity, etc, is also partly responsible for alcohol, including cardiovascular increase. I was just taking the cancer before here, but, of course, it was a shock. Men would do well in it - and now I'm not going to start speaking like a sobriety apostle, whom I am not, I'm not going to speak like an answer to alcohol, which I am not. All I'm talking about is that when we make these decisions, we should learn from past decisions. We should not necessarily wear our open eyes in the same way that we have done before. We are to learn from experience. Experience teaches us that increasing the supply of alcohol increases consumption, which increases the risk of disease. That's what we know. Then, individually, in this room, it is our natural decision whether to take the risk of what we make. It's natural for every man to be free, but I'd say we should at least do it knowingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A beer in itself is nothing more than liquid bread. Speaking of abuse and other factors, I would like to reiterate what has been observed, whether in the past. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson or of the man who stands here, that when it comes to public health, education is always the best protection, to educate people. Then we must trust people to get over these things, reach them, and try to control our lives wisely. True, some may always fall off the edge and the like. For one thing, we must look to this context to teach people how to live a healthy life. Here we will discuss a bill that turns to the small mudhouses, not thoughts at the moment. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. In this context, we are talking about letting people sell their product at the manufacturing site, having a small sale at the manufacturing site. The bill isn't talking about going all the way and just opening all the ports. So I hope so, and I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether we can agree that if we only have enough education, it can help with the public health issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u112	Mr. President. Words go. Councilmen, e.g. in this discussion and in the discussion of alcohol abuse in the past, it indicates that even though it is of good quality, it is not successful. Education simply cannot benefit if it is ignored, ignored, and denied information that exists based on the fact that it is merely prejudice, or I don't know what it is. I'm sorry, good luck can't be controlled. I say again: A few years ago, I was tried to pass through the Council of Alcohol at every grocery store. They gave up trying to throw that thing through the golden gate, but now we get it in teaspoons. We're going to have a brewery that's gonna produce up to a million gallons [0.5 million L.]. Another better invitation will be: A rocking house that produces up to a million gallons [a million L]. Then comes the third, saying, "Let's let the biggest rocking houses join in the game as well. " That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Perhaps it is some peer pressure that causes humans to want to walk this way. In itself, I am not saying that a small, pendant house in scattered places is killing all human beings. Far from it, I can't think of it. I wouldn't think an increase of 2.3% in the world's produced alcohol would come to kill a lot of people. The thing is, what I'm afraid of, is that this is the first step on a longer journey and the road ends by the fact that everything here will be given free, contrary to what the World Health Organization advises and others, and we'll be stuck with an increase in alcohol consumption and a short - lived nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u113	A respectable president. Here we continue to discuss various matters of Congress. Here's a Senate case from the Organization for a change in various laws as a result of support for smaller domestic alcoholic products. It has to do with alcohol charge, but first and last alcohol sale at the manufacturing site. This matter is interesting for many reasons. Same day as the highest. The Minister of Justice goes through the government on his case, which touches exactly the same matters, except in lesser amounts, very similar, very shy terms of freedom, the forward party is doing this. It's like the board of directors don't exactly talk to each other there. I also sense that there is no rich will in the end to take firm steps for freedom. Yet, I want to agree with them. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son has fallen here because he's here in the hall, and the approach he has in these matters, and I share his opinion. But all right, I'm not going to be a member of the Cabinet. I say, it's fine. But this is a small, shy step of freedom. I respect the fact that we're back on the ground, as it says, because most of these workshops are out in the country. This is something I think should be sure, and we shouldn't argue much. I just want to say right away that we will bring a new arrangement, both in connection with this case and also in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, which includes either the delinquency of the monopoly or the patent of the State's Alcohol and tobacco trades on a small sale of wine, and the home of a Internet store. It's a real step. There are steps we need to take in the light of evolution, conduct, and only a general view of freedom. If we just look at the state's name, the Alcohol and tobacco trade, which is now installed in this more attractive costume on the state: The Vienna is still on this ATVR government. It tells us that at one time a monopoly and a patent, not only had alcohol, but tobacco, was at one time. We blessedly allowed retailers, private companies on the market to start selling tobacco, and we trust them to sell tobacco. Did we say, " We're opening up everything up, not acknowledging the health problems that can come with smoking? ' - And now you get your lip, it's Friday too, that's all right. I say, Guð forbids us from this premeditation, first of all. Second of all, I'm going to step forward, like a cot. paritaprevir Brynjar's Níelsson earlier, that there are no feathers that there are problems, sometimes marvelous, that come with alcohol and drugs. But it does not depend on it, and it will be no less because the State does the monopoly on wine, just not. Since the establishment of this combined alcohol - tobacco trade in 1961, the business environment has changed completely and society has become so much more open. We see that there has been an increase in alcohol and beer markets throughout the country. The opening season of the State's liquor stores, at the government's command, has been blessed with the longest. It has become easier access to people who choose to buy alcohol, and it is landwide. The familiar truth is that wine is being sold in some parts of the country along with the sale of baby clothes or what it is. There's nothing wrong with that. This, however, reveals the strange reality that we have created, that this must be done under the head of the state. That's what we do when we get back to work and think there's a certain amount of time. By unchecking the State's monopoly at a liquor store or at a retail point when wine is not being made more readily available, it is simply being transferred to the market. It is true to assume that since the beer was allowed - and well meant - there is no further than that, there is still a senator here at a council who was opposed to allowing the beer, that is no longer the case. It may be a long time ago, but it is true that this is a member of the council who was then opposed to the beer. All right. I believe that the government's mono-culturation system with this legal consumer - we're not banning wine, that's not what we're doing, I could understand the reasoning that has happened, that's a legal consumer - to prevent a certain degree of competition and to impair the rightness of people's jobs. That's why I support this case. It's a sweet little thing. It's a good step. But this is not the big step I had hoped to see that increasing freedom in this matter would further support the important cohesive principles presented in this bill from the Agency, and I know that it will, in the Supreme Court case. Minister of Justice. It's been pointed at today, including On the part of the members of the Central Party, there is a serious danger of opening something further. I don't think so. I don't think that unless the government's patents on a little liquor and allow private sources to sell it against certain conditions, they would automatically increase wine sales. No, I'd rather we get to see a certain development. It would even contribute to an even further new creation on the market. We can only see from the fact that the beer was allowed on March 1, 1989, that we are living in this local crafting building just because our freedom was increased. A bed of spinning was given, and then we'll see this little wand. Therefore, I feel that the example of beer, the step then taken, provides an example of how this can fuel all sorts of ideas, wands, and innovations in many lands that we would not have been thinking about. The man who was against the beer here in 1989 had no idea that there was a case that would then support certain growth in the country. I'm afraid in addition to increasing freedom, increased opening, increased competition, we open to ideas, a channel for innovation that we, with respect to all of us in this hall, did not necessarily realize that there is a possibility in real time. It is my vision and my belief that such matters will be successful. But what does that mean? Of course, we must take our public health issues seriously. I would like to draw attention to the fact that since 1991 research and analysis, that important research firm, has been routine, followed closely, and examined by Icelandic drug and alcohol abuse. I would like to commend the existing educational authorities for making this agreement with research and analysis, providing us with valuable information and knowledge of the behavior of young people in a particular environment. These ongoing and well - adjusted studies and analyses have shown that the alcohol and drug consumption of Icelandic youths, with the highest level in the OECD in 1991, has dropped over the past 30 years and will be measured at least here, especially when it comes to alcohol. We only see changes in drugs, but because we're talking about alcohol, I'm gonna watch it. All classes, across the political lines, are to be honored by the development of a targeted vision and policy and the implementation of public health and the preemptives for this vulnerable group, students who are going from high school to high school, so we have managed to reduce it like this. There is an accomplishment that makes it possible for us to take most of our consumption into at least the minimum consumption of the school system within the OECD. It tells us that the public health issues are important. During our restoration in time, in the case of 2017 rather than 2018, the case of decommissioning on the ATVR on a little liquor sale, as well as 1% alcohol charge would go to 5% and go directly to the public health fund to maintain and further improve prevention. It makes me feel like we should approach this rather than have some state-enforcement fences that, at the end of the day, give back nothing more than some ideological approach to those who always want the state to take care of everything. We see a visual image of this in the medical affairs that the State is to care for in all its services. We see the consequences of this, and there is another matter, which is longer waiting, but I'll discuss it in another way. On the contrary, I do not believe that increasing alcohol freedom will contribute to greater consumption. I think we should simply admit that the government itself does not have to do a little selling on alcohol. It's legal consumer food. We already said, "We're gonna let her go." This does not mean that it has to be cared for by the State. It is an object that we want to emphasize, and I stress that we will make adjustments in this matter, as well as the case of the Minister of Justice, in a certain condition of freedom. The members of the Independence Party have been given countless opportunities during this council to take these little important steps of freedom in various matters. [[Up front.]] May I take a quick look at our suggestion in Reunion to allow retail trades to sell certain types of drugs such as paracetamol and aspirin and something... The senator made that suggestion earlier at this council. [[Up front.]] Sadly, this has been the case with members of the Independence Party, and they also made our suggestion to destroy a human committee. I know why. A senator spent the entire time fighting to destroy it, which is another story. But I hope the lndependence Party members say yes to these changes we make, and I hope it's not just because they're elections in six months. I hope that they do, because they really believe that they need to take more steps in the direction of freedom that eventually puts it in, in my opinion, that it is the most reasonable thing to stop the monopoly of the state's alcohol and tobacco stores from a little liquor store and give it to a small sale of private people. I think it will, as I used to say, include certain growths, specific innovations, etc., as we have experienced at this time since we allowed the beer to handle the rocking houses. We have seen all kinds of production and flavors, which are fun and can be linked to parts of the country. The great people who say this are moving, for example. ... intheVestianlands'identifying features, but there's a trick other than where we can find ourselves north, and it's just incredibly fun. There are these things that happen together with freedom, and the belief that by assigning specific oversight to the individual, something beautiful arises. As soon as I welcome this matter, I stress that I had wanted to see much larger steps. But little steps are steps. They will support these matters and contribute to the immediate release of this committee and that members of the Parliament, both in the greater part and in the smaller parts, will have the opportunity to vote with larger steps in the way of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u114	A respectable president. I did not intend to give a talk on this subject, but I did. 5th a.m. Smoke. s., Braunsar Níelsson's son, broke me up here in a pita with his speech earlier. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I sat down in a councilroom and listened to the most innocent of my speech and thought to myself and put it on Twitter how difficult I felt when I agreed with the conclusions of someone who, though, gave such a false argument. I often think it happens when we talk about freedom here at the Parliament and beyond. You see, I support this matter, not just because I support it, but because I support it. I've offered my own case to allow home payment. More about that later. Also, I support the transfer of a little liquor to a private car. However, I don't have the passion for the particular smell that I would give a bill or work on it for some purpose. But I'd press the green button if I ever asked for it at the High Council. When we talk about alcohol, I think that we often forget a certain spiritual aspect of all of this, a spiritual factor that I consider related to religion, which is that alcohol is a drug use, a drug abuse, and a drug - abuse disorder, and the rush into drugs is part of a personal nature. When we handle extreme personal matters at the Council, or in political terms, the discussion generally goes into a bit of a stir. This is true of religion, drug talk, and more or less everything that comes with children or child rearing or the interests of children. Naturally, people take it very personally, and as a result, they feel very strongly about all matters that concern their interests. It also applies to such things as sexual behavior, sex, sexual characteristics, and the like. It is no wonder that in discussions about such topics, certain professional viewpoints, political views, and personal viewpoints and the mixture of them all are not necessarily a very transparent cocktail, as it were. When we talk about freedom, as I'm going to discuss here, we stop being free -- which I know I am and why. paritaprevir Brynjar of Níelsson's son and others are - to give us the freedom that we long for to be harmless. We tend to give it to ourselves because it is very easy for us if it is harmless. If we can increase our freedom without taking risks without sacrificing for it, it is easy to support it and potentially easy to convince other people about the same thing. It's just that freedom isn't free. It's gonna cost you. That takes sacrifice. If we have freedom of expression, which I most support in this council as far as I can see, it costs that people can say something we don't like. We just need to live with it, but that does not mean that we need to accept it. We might even want to say things that are bad, we might want to criticize them very strongly, we might even want to care for our own website or our own situation in some way, for the freedom of expression includes, of course, that each set of rules for itself. It's part of it. If we are free to drink alcoholic beverages, this means that we must shoulder some kind of responsibility for them. We need to make sure that our conduct under the influence of alcohol does not violate the rights of others. We may need to respond to the harmful behavior that alcohol can promote, e.g. with prevention or even with some kind of limitation. But let us be clear that when we increase our freedom, we sometimes do so at the expense of viewpoints, such as public health. We freedom lovers at a council need to be able to say in plain terms and with open eyes that we exist in that capacity. I'd like to give you a specific example. In recent times, falsely my sources stated that a disease such as cirrhosis had not increased in Iceland since the release of beer. It is true that now you don't hear anyone wanting to forbid the beer again, more about that, if I have time, but it's wrong that cirrhosis has not increased. It has increased, more dignified president. And we need, informed, and open - eyed, to say that we are willing to do so because we treasure our freedom so much that we are willing to sacrifice something for it. I'll stand here and say it. To me, freedom is something that in itself requires no justification, no more than desire life or happiness. I actually put these three things a little bit in the same category; life, happiness, and freedom. If I had to make a choice, I wouldn't always be sure. It'd be a little depending on the circumstances, I think. There's freedom in that much in my mind. Freedom is good in nature. I want my freedom just because I want to be happy just because I want to survive it. I wouldn't argue that this is how I'm going to have it, and the world offered me whatever he wants to try to stop me. Similarly, misunderstandings with our freedom might not matter how this is done. Of course, it matters how it is done. We cannot simply increase our freedom and expect no negative consequences. It is not so simple that it is simply a group of people in the community who abuse alcohol, but much of it does not. It's not that simple. I understand that it can look that way, but it's more complicated than that. I'll give you a specific complication when it comes to other drugs related to morphine and amine related to substances. I don't know if these are exactly medical terms for me, but these are at least related subjects or the same ones that are abused by people in the community in some way. They are bought at the so - called black market, i.e. unscheduled markets, and consumers abuse them. Relatively recently a uniform registry of physicians publishing prescriptions for these medicinal products could no longer be passed between physicians with the same problem and receiving the actual dose repeatedly required. Of course it reduced its consumption; I haven't looked it up recently I have to admit; and probably it had some positive effect on recent recruitment in the group that would otherwise use these materials. But the position of the group that continues to abuse them, which is far gone, is getting worse. Even if we take steps that may be positive overall, they can in some other way be negative and steps that can help us to cope with one section of the problem can have the opposite effect on another part of the problem. Thus there are drug issues, a respectable president, and so is human society in general. It's complicated. It's weird. No matter how much we love our freedom and how right it is, it is not so simple and clear which way is best. It was mentioned earlier that no one wanted to go back to ban the beer, and I agree with that. I don't see anybody demanding it. Still, we need to realize that although the worst predictions have not come true - like those that would put beer on the serios or something like that, which was a different idea then and is, in fact, in my view, a different idea today - and it is true that the predictions of those predictions have not been fulfilled, consumption has increased very much, as predicted. That's right. Problems such as cirrhosis have increased. That's right. Yet we don't want to go back. Why is that, Mr. Honorable President? Because when we, the alleged smart people at the Council, are going to sit down and make decisions for everyone else in the community, it turns out that we have some kind of system. We are involved in the community as some kind of system, even some kind of board game or video game. We're going to set the values in that board game or that video game so that our community will come out in a way that we think is reasonable. The problem with this approach is - and this is a political problem in nature and in some places. Why media control is so bad and often stupid - that society is more complicated than that. The community is a collection of individuals, and individuals in the community are only often willing to take risks with their health and money in order to experience temporary pleasures. In fact, people do that every time they choose to drink alcohol. It may be a temporary form of entertainment, but people know that it costs money that they can use in a more reasonable way if they think things through. They know that alcohol has a negative effect on their health, but they do. That's how the humane, the respectable president is. She's not a player playing board games with us politicians. The individual has an independent will, which simply doesn't agree with us here that is going to design the great game of society. As a freedom lover, I find it personal that the public can behave differently from us here may be the wisest thing to do. I don't believe that it's our job to design the community framework that everything is in bright green and beautiful colors that we believe are compatible with some of the overall objectives of the board game society. In this respect, I agree with the freedom lovers who otherwise reason on the matter of freedom. Then I'd like to take a few minutes to go to the workshops only because of the weather. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned them earlier. The craft shops include the treasuries. to come because we have legalized or allowed beer in our time. And that's good. But I'd also like to remind you that the crafts are here because people outside the community have, contrary to existing laws, started their housemaking, and experimented with the other ones and those beers. It does not take long to see the industry around home development, especially in recent years. I mention it because when it comes to drinking, I find the emphasis of the classes to be different. I'd support a case that put alcohol in a little business to private but, again, I'm not really interested in it. I don't have enough passion for that particular smell to work on such a bill because there's only one point. For me, the main thing is the individual's freedom, the individual's freedom to be at peace with authorities who keep telling them how to live their own lives, in their own house. That is why I approach alcohol therapy in just another way, in regard to priorities, in that I want to avoid homemaking, where people make alcohol for their own use, not for distribution, not for sale, not for giving to children or anyone else, but themselves. I think that should be the first step in a world of freedom in alcohol abuse as well as in others; the individual. I understand exactly what you're doing. The members of the Independence Party are obsessed with little selling laws. Maybe it's because the clients are somebody else. I don't know. I also find it interesting that the senators of the Foreign Party bring this fine case, which, of course, has to do with stakeholders, a great deal in the country, who have problems with the local farming arrangements. Everything is a legitimate view. I think everything is fine. But my priorities are interesting to me. Most of all, I have to name a drug in general because alcohol is drugs and just as much drugs as other drugs in Iceland. I find alcohol amazing and sometimes funny how alcohol is somehow on its own and not included illegal drugs, such as alcohol being something other than another drug. There's nothing more than one more drug, except that's an unusually harmful, respectable president. It is the principal characteristic of alcohol. I think it's empty talking about freedom in alcohol or drugs until we've stopped punishing drug addicts. Thanks to the 2013 Pirata lawsuit, when it seemed radical to suggest that now seems to be a major part of the Council for the removal of drugs. That's good. I can't wait to vote with that case when it comes out. But, Mr President, I find it incredibly strange to stand here as a member of the Icelanders and listen to talks about freedom when one of the basics is not even cleared. I think it's ridiculous, you respectable President, all I have to say is right now. That's what I'm saying. I support my freedom, even when it's necessary. But the way we change things is important, and it is important that we keep our eyes open when we choose between freedom and human health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u115	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson always has very deep speeches. It's not much for simplicity. Of course, freedom is not harmless and has never been. Of course, freedom comes with responsibility. You're responsible for your own life. That's key. We allow all kinds of risk behaviors. It's freedom. We wouldn't let people just drive, and we wouldn't let people go on dangerous mountains. Freedom will never be without harm. I can feel it. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is not impressed with this freedom. I had that experience in my talk. It also involves the individual, the individual's freedom to act. It's just a very precious freedom. It is the fundamental freedom of an individual and not merely the peace of the government. I wonder if a person takes advantage of brewing beer and selling it, he has no peace with the government. They forbid him. Just at the end of the cirrhosis, you need to check that there are a lot more natural in this country, more and more of us are growing very fast, as well as the one we grow older. There is a large increase in most diseases, e.g. alzheimer. That's a simple explanation: We've got a lot older.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u116	A respectable president. Just so that I'm wrong about it, I'm also in favor of my freedom of business and that private people can sell alcohol. In the long run, in advance of the priorities I presented in the latter part of my talk, I believe that one day in the future it should be permitted to sell the illegal drugs today. I'm not sure it's wise to open a heroin camp tomorrow, but the first step is to stop punishing the consumers. That's the first step. It matters how things are done and in what order. I find the language so interesting. A senator because he does not have to lecture anyone about the importance of freedom of business. Almost no other freedom has been found in the political discussions of the past few decades of the Independence Party, which constantly terrorizes freedom. That's fine. I love freedom. I want my freedom, I demand it, I should have it. And again, if the world can stop me. There is a difference, though, between having no attention to something, paying attention to it, or giving attention to it. I'm not against the freedom of business. I just don't think it should always be the only thing in the first place. I think freedom of the individual should be first of all, and certainly freedom to act and freedom to business things of that. Business is a business, I realize it, a respectable president. But when it comes to independence, it is as if the individual's freedom is always secondary. There's always a sidebar. There's no way we can get to the foreground. That is why homemaking is still under ban, so we are still punishing drug addicts. If our independent party were to follow words, we would be freer today. But thanks to voters, we have other classes here to take care of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u117	V.E.G. President. It's all about the individual's freedom. The independent party has fought for the individual's freedom all along and was far from the only group that did something about it. You're right. It's not just about some sort of business freedom. A person is always thinking about improving his own interests in one way or another, and he does not just need to be financial. The individual wants freedom. We know that he does not always treat his freedom well. We're never completely sensible. But I always say, it's far more important to have this freedom, to live in such a society, than that men always make some calculations that it can now be harmful, that we must somehow prevent or limit or ban it. Let's stop it. In itself, I am not thinking very much of the individual. I'm just talking about the environment. The person has a good access to alcohol today. The reason I spoke up was to say that we have to get out of the state's patent drinking. It's just a big thing for the country, for smaller communities, to be able to make, sell alcohol at the place. It's just a matter of interest, not just for the individual, but for the whole community. We're always creating limitations, and we always have some view of human health. We have to get out of it. Despite all of this, we live longer and are actually healthier. [[The president calls.]] But we always have this need to limit people's freedoms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u118	A respectable president. There are naturally complex reasons why we live longer and are healthier, though we are certainly right in the future. A senator that has limitations in selling toxic substances, e.g. in paint or poison used in refrigerators or whatever. There are all kinds of reasons, of course, for increased awareness about how to live, how to eat, and so on. As I say, it's very complicated and very many reasons for that. In case of a moment. A senator wants to come to me with a message that doesn't mean people should drum their freedom he's got an ally in this necklace right here and now. I have at times found it surprising how democracy is used as some sort of trumpet game against freedom of choice because when we talk about healthy individuals, there is no doubt that we are talking about one of the most personal matters in the individual. There are few data, e.g. if you are a doctor or a member of the general community, which we will protect more and more eagerly than our medical records. They are personal. This is understood by all of us as we look at the person and his health. But when we take the entire nation's health information and bury them with beautiful colors, it is suddenly beginning to matter to all individuals in the community. I find this to be a slightly distorted image of how we should view human health. I'm not against our viewing of her, but I think it's important that we identify our goal. It must always be that we increase the individual's potential for improving health and giving public health to achieve that goal rather than setting bans, just to make our table game beautiful or better, as I discussed in my speech. So I say we do what we do. A senator would agree on this. That I also feel important, as I said in my speech, that we keep our eyes open to the fact that when we call for more freedom, we can in some way be calling for increased sacrifices. [[The president calls.]] I'm willing to do it, but I think it's important that we make it informed and aware and we just have it straight. [[The president calls.]] But I don't think we should do it. A senator may disagree, although the tone in our talks may at times indicate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u119	President. I just wanted to have a little talk at the end because I think it's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has entered a very important point in all of this: whenever we try to go into some kind of freedom, make us more competitive, then we're beaten in the head with an investigation of public health issues. We could do this with anything. We may have considerable limitations on what people eat, what they eat, what they eat. We could have considerable limitations on how people spent their leisure time, interests, etc. It's such an important point. We can't go on in this discussion because people hit us on the head with public health issues. I'm just saying, we need to get out of this. I think it's important for society that we learn better to take responsibility for ourselves, to take our own chances if we want to, to take responsibility for what we do, and to give in. Of course, in isolated cases this may have harmful effects for those who are not wise in these matters. But I value freedom so much that I believe that the big interests of freedom are rather than that someone could be harmed if we let it or others get hurt. It's exactly the same discussion I've been talking about right now about slot machines. I'm not interested in slot machines, I think it's one of the most ridiculous things I see. But we know that many, perhaps not many but some at any given time, spend all their money on them. The drugs are so intense. Of course, the drugs do not disappear. She breaks out in some other way. But people feel quite righteous in forbidding people, all people, to play a slot machines instead of taking responsibility for the problem themselves, seeking help, doing what needs to be done. No, it's just a rule. People say, "There's more to it than that. " Of course, there's more to it. The more part doesn't play in these boxes. But it is also the majority of the people who do not play soccer or play some sport or do not do anything else. [[Forbidden it.]] Yeah, I mean, what health damage do you think is the result of sports? It's a health hazard. I have a former athlete in president's sports. I'm not saying he's a passenger, I'm just saying that all this freedom, to behave like this, to participate in competitive sports, brings expenses. Of course, no one can think of banning competitive sports. This may be because so many people are interested in watching them, but few people are interested in slot machines. I have always wondered about this with alcohol, that even men who regularly vomited themselves are still trapped in the thought that there are only any government workers who have to deal with them with alcohol. True, people are very happy that access is much better than it was before humans are somehow: If we let private agents sell alcohol, the nation will end. Of course, she does not. They are just the way they are, and there are always some who make mistakes. There's always some junkies in anything. What we're supposed to think about is that we can step in and help people, we can use effective prevention, get propaganda, everything important. Do so, but let people take responsibility for their own lives, allow them to be free. Then I think society will be much better, even though somewhere we can wave that someone's hurt himself. Freedom is so important, but we underestimate it. It's like we've forgotten to talk about it, and then it's gonna run away, and we're gonna forget about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u120	President. Here's where I recommend a bill to correct any changes in the U.S. election law to the General, i.e. The increase in equations model. Porta's party is on this case, which reads: Houses of 63, thus divided between elections: Northwestern district, north-eastern district, South-western, South-western district, Reykjavík, and the New York District of the north, each with six districts of Congress. In the Northwest District, there will be two economist seats, in the northeastern district, and in the four prime seats in each individual district, in the southwestern district, seven equations are to be set, and in the north of Reykjavík, the district of the South and the city of Reykjavík, five equal seats in each of the individual districts. The objective of this bill is to achieve as much as a relative exchange vote between political parties in elections to the Generals and the relative division of members of the Parliament. There are mainly two factors that are involved. The greatest effect is due to regulations 4 mg. 31. The Constitution that political organizations can only get equal seats if they have received at least five percent of the country's values that are not being changed here is not a change in the constitution. Total equations also have an effect. In recent elections, there has been quite a difference between the relative number of votes and the exchanges between council parties. If the 5% threshold in the constitution was not anticipated, e.g. In 2013, five elections to the Generals received one to two districts each. As a result, these seats spread to other groups beyond the relative vote. At that time, the Independence Party received two additional seats, the forward party four more than the proportion of votes, the United States one and a Bright Future One. Taking into account the 5% rule of the Constitution, the forward category received two extra district seats at the expense of the left movement ▪ green supply and Pirata, each class should have received one additional level. In the 2016 election, if the 5% threshold is not taken into account, the Independence Party received five extra districts, the left movement offered two extra districts, two Piratars two, and a repair one. The United States needed one chair, a bright future for two, the Dogga two, the Lugg of the Three People, and the Allied Company one. On the other hand, considering the 5% threshold, the Independence Party received four additional seats, one at the expense of the advance party, one at the expense of the United States and two at the cost of the Bjart's future. The distribution of Parliaments in the 2017 election was closer to being in line with the vote rate of political organizations. If the 5% threshold is not taken into account, only one place the advance team received at the expense of the future was lost. Taking into account the threshold of the constitution, the advance party also received a secondary assembly seat at the expense of the United States. It is because of the limitations of the equations. However, the error of having an equation seat in the last three elections is few. In the 2013 election, two council seats were passed. It would have meant a government with a total of 34ths rather than 36. It would not have been possible to form the majority government of the Independence Party, Action, and Birt's Hope because they groups had only a total of 30 members and the current 2017 government would now be with only 32 members of the Council after the left movement has stood up in 32 different parts of Congress. The third factor affecting the proportion of members of the Parliament differs between terms. This bill does not expect to equal that difference, but if this were done, a change of 2 mg would be required. 1st par. this bill as follows: In the Northwestern District, there is no economist place, in the North East, one equation seat, four equation seats, the southwestern districts are to be 12 equation seats, and the district of Reykjavík is to be six equal seats, and in the south of Reykjavík, the five equal seats. In fact, there should also be six equations in the south of Reykjavík, but the Constitution limits minimum rate of six, which would have to be five in the northwestern district in order to achieve an evenly balanced distribution of the vote value. Really, this is a very simple change. It is not necessary to have all seats above six equation seats, but it is only clearer and simpler after all. As the examples have shown, the difference does not quite reach deep down into the equation seats. However, it is more clean to have the exchange in such a way that all the terms have the same number of regular Senate seats as that of the rest being equal. This would translate the equal distribution of a panel based on the relative vote of nonreservation, except for problems affecting the 5% threshold, as well as the level of interest between terms and terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u121	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to change the law on the national anthem of the Icelanders so that 1st par. if you say: The national anthem of Iceland is a feeling of happiness Iceland by Silvía Nótt with -- no, pardon, honorable president, it's the wrong document, this is for the next election period. Sorry about that. The bill I'm giving you here is about canceling three- and-and-a-six. par. The law of the law, which is not of the national anthem, nor of whom is it, but of how it should be delivered, for what cause it may be given, of what cause it is determined on how it is delivered, and, above all, what is the punishment against breaking these laws? You see, this is the case with growth of 1. The songs of the National Songs of the Icelanders are such that the National Songs of the Icelanders, the god of our country, the song of Matthías the son of Jochumsson, and the song of the son of Sveinbjörn, the son of Sveinbjörnsson. That is not how this bill, a respectable president, is used. Two. The law says that the national anthem is the property of the Icelandic people and that the Ministry has jurisdiction over its rights. It's not like we're talking about a more modest, respectable President. But in the 3rd. presents this pleasant sentence, with the permission of the president: ▪ The national anthem will not be presented or published in any form other than the original. The national anthem is not permitted in any way to be used for commercial or advertising. If the audience thinks it's ridiculous, it's the opinion of a spokesman here in a pita. The background of this law is rather interesting. In the early 1980's, filmmaker Hrafn Gunnlaugsson made a film, such as in news stories, apart from the fact that this film upsets prime minister. As a result, the prime minister decided to ban what irritated him and set these laws. You see, in the movie the national singing was done, not in the original form. He was transferred to some sort of jazz version. I haven't been able to see a controversial picture yet, I have to admit, but I understand that the transfer didn't quite fit in with everyone, and some thought it wasn't cool, not very good with the folk song. When the Icelanders dislike what is said or published or even sung, they practice banning it, and that is what has been done in the 1980's, of the world's highest standard. Prime Minister. Hopefully, this story has become some kind of joke, but these laws, a respectable president, must still be corrected, especially in the light of page 6. The law, which is as follows, by permission of the President: ▪ In violation of the legal requirements of these laws, the fines or prisons are covered up to 2 years. It's as if prison punishment is in Iceland's current law to sing the national song differently than it did in its original form. Happily, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is, not since the 1980's, but from abroad and was added to our constitution in the 1990's. It can be assumed that this law would not meet that requirement if the case ended with the Supreme Court today. I hope and think, though, that these laws seem absurd that cases would never end there. Yet, it is important for me to remove from the national law laws that, first of all, are probably not a constitution and second, are simply absurd. That is what this particular bill is about. I'd like to mention it because every time I present this case, or rather, every time the media talk about it, I get, and maybe more of the Pirats, the decision to put it in first place. I just want to say that I wrote this bill sometime on a Saturday night at my house because I heard a news report that perhaps Katrín Jacobs' Jakobsdóttir, might have been the daughter of the court. The prime minister, the violation of the law, and some discussion of this matter, so there was no greater desire to change those laws. This isn't the case I would file, if I were to choose one case to contribute. I think it's simple, I'm sure it's worth a couple of hours on Saturday night to get rid of this nonsense. Personally, I don't think that should need anything more than that, and I think it should fly through. In fact, personally I also feel that there should be a administrative court in Iceland that would automatically eliminate these laws from testing them. But I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I think this bill is for itself. I find it amazing to have to stand here in a chair in 2021 and have to give some particular reason for such a self - righteous change. I'll leave it between parts, but suggest the bill runs to 2nd. ... andwhat. The General and Education Committee and finally suggest that the meetings of the WCC committees will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u122	President. Here is a simple bill in 28 articles in which each article falls some law, e.g. 1736, 1744, 1746, 1759, 1764, etc. This bill, though mostly the church, is about the independence of the church and is actually a philosophy of life. Today, there are full laws on this. My favorite is the directive for house-wageing. It says that priests have to come to people's homes twice a year, or they'll get paid for money. In fact, first there's a warning and then there's guilt. The fine is to be paid for the education of poor children, something I think we have done in a very different way. We don't demand priests to come to people's homes twice a year, but the order is then 1746, seventeen hundred, and sauerkraut, we have laws in force, we have hundreds of sauerkrauts, we have hundreds of sauerkrauts. This bill has been transferred before, in a 149th legislation, but it was not much of a sound basis for what I don't understand, and is now reborn unchanged in other ways than that the mobilization of regulations no longer required to act in the wake of a law about changing the law of state, government and conduct of the National Institutes, law on the rights and duties of the employees of the state, and the law on the welfare of the employees of the state, (the addition of the Icelandic State and National Church), no. 153/2019, approved at the last legislation. It is suggested that certain laws involving priests, religions, or religions go away or change. The laws that go away or change, old and new, are legally involved in the way priests, religions, and religions operate. Other religions, or members of the community, are not known to have their policies recorded in national law, beyond the general law on such organizations. The bill thus matches the position of the Bishop's office and its parishes with other religions. By doing this, the nations can simply change their rules on their own terms and without intervening the Generals. It is evident, too, that many of the legal columns listed in the bill are long gone and are no longer applicable. Among the above are the duties of priests to visit all their parishioners twice a year and a warrant that is restricted only to bishops. Therefore, this bill may be designated as part of a law code and a simple rule book. The biggest change in this bill is subheading of application fees. Instead of collecting them with a proportion of taxes, the local religions will have to pay for their own fees. Therefore, they will themselves be able to determine the level of their charge and how their collections should be carried out. Also, auto-employed religious and biological institutions are placed on the basis of whether they usually collect social and parishes. In the bill of Justice, which deals with an overall review of the law on the National Church, the majority of the points discussed are just as good as in terms of the application fees. The Church of Churches is set in exactly the order and obligation of the law, as stated by the Constitution, that in Iceland there is a national church. Although this bill requires the independence of the church and that there are no duties on the Church's shoulders in this bill, it does not interfere with the Constitution of the National Church in Iceland, for example, it can be met by the financial requirements of the Constitution. For the state will pay for the business of the Bishop's office or anything like it. This can be done in a very diverse way, but it is now made by a multibillion - dollar contract that really does not have any specific definition of the objective of that service. I think it's a much better way to achieve the aims of their religious and biological institutions that they can simply decide for themselves how they behave their rules and whether they decide to collect dues or not. I recommend that this case proceed to the 2nd. ... andwhat. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, hoping to make a good deal of money, maybe along with the rest of the bill for a full reexamination of Iceland's National Church. Then people can get to choose either this or that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u123	Mr. President. A major step was taken in this hall when the Council adopted the sexual autonomy law, a major step toward acknowledging the rightness of individuals to define their own gender. During the New Year's season, people were able to choose a third option in a national registration. In addition to male and female patients, there was a third option in the drop-off menu marked: ▪ynmagnesium/other than As a result, 34 requests for correction of sex registration have been completed. It is fine to stop and wish these 34 individuals to be happy that they will finally register as they please. However, something was discovered, at the same time that was opened for this registration possibility, which I would like to say was a mistake here at the Council. What it turned out was that if a person corrects the registration of a generation and a name into a national file, it needs to be paid for $9,000. A mistake, I say, because I don't think we've figured it out. I don't think it could have been our will to accept the sex-seminary laws of sexual autonomy to take advantage of the opportunity to create potential money for the state's funds. The bill I present here, along with 11 other members of Congress, is about removing the law of the law on the extra income of the state's budget of about 9,000 dollars. the receipt of Iceland's national records due to an amendment of name and registration generation. There are many reasons why this registration could be made in the Constitution of the people of the United States free of charge. I'd like to mention the basic arguments I've thought of. First, it's about equality. It's about that name and sex are the only changes to a national file paid for. If people move and change legal registration accordingly, they won't cost a dollar. If people want to change their charge, they don't cost anything. Religious registration is free. If people sign up to be married or divorced, they too will be free of charge, and if their marital status changes, the legal entity may cost a businessman something, but changing the registration into a national record is free of charge. It's free of charge, of course. How, then, can we justify the fact that out of the 17 things recorded in the book of the nations there are genders and the names of the only ones paid to change? From an equal mind, Mr. President, it's not gonna hold water. Second, because of government interests, public interest, is that national records are correct. This is one of the most important public files with basic information about all individuals in the country. It is the direct aim of a law on registration that the registry is reliable and that the registration of information into a national file is based on the best available data at any given time. And as I listed earlier, when it comes to the financial interests of lawmakers, it is a protection. It is conditional to change, for for example, the income of rural society is important. It is conditional to convert into a religion, for their revenue is based on charge of this registration, and things that affect the basic rights of people are conditional. But setting a payment on these two factors is an inhibitor, setting the threshold for changing this registry so that it reflects reality. This is unnecessary even if only because both the human names laws and the sexual autonomy laws contain an inhibitor. Both laws say that only once it takes no threshold, no sense of expense, or what people want to call it, to prevent people from changing their right name. It's in the law that you can't do that. So the payment serves no purpose but to prevent a person from being registered correctly. They don't serve public interests. That doesn't serve the purpose of the law. The third argument I would like to mention, which, in fact, are the most important ones to me, is about being reasonable. which 34 people have had to pay for from year to year is the amount of money that a government fund will not remember, nothing. But these individuals can well remember nine thousand dollars. There I would like to refer to the cry from Trans Iceland, which pointed out that because of the peripherality of the state that transisters live in this country, as in other countries, it is not likely that they can afford to pay such a price for many reasons. Trans people are e.g. More likely, they may find it difficult to find work, find housing, and go to school because of discrimination and prejudice, so they may not have much to play. Not to be overlooked is the fact that people are often involved in expensive careers. The costs of medication and medical treatments or procedures related to the procedure that often fall to a very low level below health insurance. In order to respond to this situation, while the Council has not corrected these mistakes in the law, Trans Iceland has taken the initiative to set up a trust fund for people who want to correct the sexual registration of a national file, the financial funds set up for some of the 34 persons to correct a country's registration record. That's not the way it should be. It is simply meant to be a free file. Nor should we overlook the fact that once a country's registration record has been corrected in a national record, there are other costs that the public will receive from that people. People need to buy a new passport for 13,000 bucks. and driver's license for 8,000 bucks. ... sothatthisunfathomableKrush 9,000. the cost of a start is piled up at a very high cost, which is not fair in the country. A respectable president. It's a simple bill that I hope to achieve rapidly and clearly. We need to recognize that the council made a mistake when it was decided that people would have to pay nine thousand dollars. to correct the registration of gender. This bill is all about correcting mistakes and undoing the tax. Transmission is unjust in that it is the only change in registration into a record paid for. It is a failure because it leads to worse nationality, becomes less basic, and is unfair because it makes a team of money money we should do everything in our power to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u124	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the cultural law, No. 80/2012. The bill deals with the peaceful conditions of tree groves, individual trees, and gardening plants. The bill is on the roof. 886 and No. 527. Transporters are down. Senators Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjonsson S. Brjánsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason Kristjándænsdóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Hjaltason Gautti Einar of the Year, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and Sara Elísa Thordur's Þórðardóttir. The bill is presented in three articles and is proposed to reform the cultural laws. It is suggested that a minister be allowed, at the request of the Minja Agency, that a grove of trees, individual trees, gardening plants, and, in addition, a grove of trees, a single tree and garden cultured history, or theoretical value, and that a peace description by the bill, be legally bound to the approval of the owners of the trees, trees, and garden culture, and the relevant rural society. It is suggested that the law be accepted after approval. Then perhaps you can start by going to a prehistory of the bill. Transporters draw attention to the subject of the bill being discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee in the treatment of forest and forestry that became the law of No. 33/2019. It specifically pointed out that it was important that trees and gardening have a way of getting better. On that discussion, it was also noted that there were some who wondered where such a law was most suitable, i.e. in what law. The results of the Environment and Transport Committee were that this source would not be particularly relevant in forestry and forestry laws, but rather in cultural law. The Committee of Environment and Transport Committee on the bill that became the forest laws and forestry laws directed it to the Environment and Resource Ministry that such protection should be found in the law. After the committee's discussion of the matter, an article published by the local parkship of Icelandic landscape votes, known as Cameron ◯ Living mines. The methods of protection assessment and registration of old gardens. In view of the report, if you want to do so, you might consider that you should respond to the case and give the case to the General for further discussion, as this is done. In view of the report, the result was also to suggest a change in cultural law. This bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislature and is now reassigned. Although this did not go to a committee, some sources e - mailed them from different sources that considered it important to proceed with the situation. As mentioned earlier, the bill presents changes in cultural laws with the aim of allowing peace to be cleared by tree groves, individual trees, and gardening plants. No doubt many ask: Why? The goal of peace can be some. One goal is to protect a single tree, one that has a whip on the environment, and many find it beautiful. An example is the map on the corner of South Street and Hope Street. Changes in cultural laws are made with the aim of allowing the peace of a tree's grove, a single tree, and a garden culture. It is important to make sure that living ones are properly protected and cared for. In many parts of the earth, individual trees can be found that have even appeared for tens of years. Can be used there, e.g. Name the above map at the corner of Hope Street and South Avenue in Reykjavík, which was planted in 1918. These trees tend to impress young and old, and for a long time they have called attention to old, remarkable trees chosen for the tree of the year. There are parks, tree collections, and experiments that preserve both culture history and theoretical information, such as genetic information on domestic and imported trees or information on the disposition of imported and domestic species, and variants of crops and trees in different situations. This is especially this aspect of the matter that is considered important to the person mentioned here. I may take a closer look at the knowledge and the opportunity to gather knowledge that can lie in museums and testing areas. According to the report by the Icelandic landscape branch, Cameron ◯ Live minas mentioned earlier, a unique tree may be a cultural testimony to the loss of a garden and the fractured structures under a greenhouse. Thus it can represent ideals and hold a period in the country's cultural and cultural history. An example of such trees always seems to me to be the trees of Sandunda, which are really the main monuments of a previous home story there. In addition, it may be important to protect wood, tree groves, and gardening from theoretical viewpoints, such as through the acquisition of knowledge and the preservation of genetic resources. A national genetic protection programme in Icelandic nature and agriculture 2019◯223 shows that it is of importance for the genetics of domestic tree species to increase their spread, including the U.S. to promote the effectiveness of evolutionary processes in the context of self - interest and restoration of forests. It is also necessary to investigate the species structure and explore the potential for adaptation into different environments, but such knowledge may benefit the protection of genetic polymorphism and forestry in general. To some extent, this knowledge can be drawn from gardens, laboratory areas, and tree collections, as well as natural forests. The report lists several necessary actions, including to ensure the preservation of non-national areas, registration of origin, distribution and use of Icelandic materials to garden and landscape plants, and registration of plant sites with cultural significance. Thus, specific protection may be a factor in ensuring public access and attention to information on garden and landscape plants that are well adapted to the Icelandic environment. Of course, in this regard it can also be pointed out that such knowledge can be used to adapt to climate change and for various other purposes. Sources for peace descriptions of individual trees, tree groves and gardening are lacking in current rights, but rural society has some established rules for protecting such vegetation within the countryside, e.g. neighborhood protection of tree groves or individual trees in organization It is important to recognize that such sources of peace are guaranteed by law, realizing that trees, tree groves, and gardening can have the same degree of protection as houses and other cultures as well as the value of knowledge and the preservation of genetic resources. This ensures that such legislation guarantees a conformity between rural society for protection and registration. The bill is suggested for the 5th. The law adds a new paragraph to allow a minister to be granted the proposal of the Minning Institute to atoning a grove of trees and trees and gardens. Gardenism refers to a variety of gardening plants other than trees and shrubs. Then a new article, Article 18. a, about the peaceful conditions of tree groves, trees and gardening. And as noted earlier, a description of peace is also found. depending on the agreement of the owners of the respective tree groves, trees and gardening plants, as well as the local community. The conduct of a peace description according to this article depends on Article 19. The laws on the implementation of peace statements, including the preparation, declaration of peace, advertisement and registration of the electronic maps. For further details on the implementation of peace descriptions of tree groves, trees, and garden conditions in a Regulation, as the law now expects. That's where we come from. conducted by the Minja Institute for Counselling in preparing peace terms, lawsuits, possible actions to ensure the protection and duties of an overseer, how to define the boundaries of a peace-telling database, how to hold the Minja Agency around, and to direct information on the peace-lit grove of trees, trees and gardens, and how to disqualify a peace description of land or land conditions where the plant is to be planted. Or you might point out that it is likely that there is a need to determine how a declaration of peace is lifted. It is now with trees and other vegetation that these are living things that do not belong to eternal life. Protective measures, e.g. Just over the lives of individual trees. Then I have explained the matter, and I believe it is important that the committee be discussed and suggested that it be referred to the General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u125	A respectable president. I recommend a synonym to the study of a death aid poll with a health care professional. My deputies to the council odor proposal have a problem. The members of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Kolbeinn Otcarsson Proppé, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Brjánsson of S.E., and Páll Magnússon. I think I'm sure, sir, a respectable president. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir would also be with us if she had attended a council when this was presented. She was with us in the past. That's what it sounds like, with President's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to have a health - care survey conducted by a health - care professional to determine its position on the treatment of death. The aim of the poll must be made as the highest picture of the health care professional's opinion of the subject, which has been given more public discussion than before after the medical report on death support was published, and to investigate objective and careful whether and how the health care professional's attitude has changed so that the case can be continued. A minister introduces the results of the poll by the General General at the Fall Summit of 2021. I think there is reason to believe that since I arrived at the council, I have presented a case related to death aid. I was the first member of the council to make a pact that went out to the highest level. A minister compiled information on death aid in our neighboring countries, both where it has been placed a specific law frame and the development in our neighboring countries, where such a route has not been carried out. At the same time, the death - support attitude of a health professional would be investigated. Such an arrangement was proposed to a Council of 146th, 148th, and 149th Council. A respectable president. The one standing here gave up three times in the matter and was not allowed to be settled from the council. So late in 149 C.E., it was shocked to bring a petition on the same subject. It was first approved on June 13, 2019, but it was not completed. V.E.G. Thus, a minister could not report to an ongoing assembly. For these technical reasons, we repeated this request to Council 150. It was approved on December 16, and the report came on August 27, 2020. The report, which I believe is the first session to address death support in some way, provides a very good summary of the assistance and development of our neighboring countries, especially those countries that have permitted and have done so only by means of different means. In fact, what is also very interesting in this report is the definition of death support. The report says that death aid is the motive of various activities or inactivity that can be directed toward a patient in order to end his life. Death support can be provided in a variety of ways that can be divided into four main sub-intelligences. They are listed below, stratified by the degree of intervention in a patient's life, the mildest first: euphoric therapy, indirect death relief, medical assistance in the treatment of suicide, and finally direct death aid. A respectable president. I mention it here, for many were a little disturbed by the fact that charity was a subject of death relief. As anyone should know, charity is being treated in this country. Happily, this therapy has developed extensively in recent years, and I'd like to say that there is a wide range of skills in treating them in general. Other portions of the death aid have not been authorized according to Icelandic law. What we ask is to receive the attention of a health care professional regarding death support and its different factors. In this context, it is good to point to a recent poll carried out by the British Medical Association. It is since February 2020, and it shows that a greater proportion of British doctors want the British medical organization to abandon their opposition to death aid. The results of this study varied according to the nature of the questions and how much HCPs were expected during the procedure. Interestingly, medical students were more positive in their view of death relief than doctors who had been working long ago. While there may be some indication of generation gaps in view of this concept of opinion, it is well considered in the report on the difference of viewpoints. We're gonna go for a second. Senators who bring this council resolution have many, I think, and hopefully more, observe the discussion that has been in this country. The discussion has been that I think, more, maybe deeper, more measured than often before. The organization may not be the least responsible for life's respect, a death - support organization. They want eulogy in the community and have been very effective in providing instruction on the subject of death support, including some of them. has offered educational and topic meetings. I want to use this opportunity and thank the organization very much for the important work, since death aid is in my mind an overly sensitive moral subject. That is why it is so important that when we discuss death aid, we do so with respect and care. In a paper, both by a synonym and a request of the day, I quoted the figures I had considered on death support. In a 1997 medical study in which one of the questions on death support was found, this word was not applied to the practice of euthanasia. I hope that if there's anything we've achieved in the coverage here at the council, it's just changing that word use and using the word "death aid" rather. In the 1997 poll, only 5% of the doctors and 9% of nurses of euthanasia, which we would call death relief, were justified under some circumstances, but only 2% of respondents were able to expect to grant such a wish. I also received a comparable survey in 2010, 13 years later. The result had only changed. At that time, 18% of doctors felt that they could be justified in some cases and 20% of nurses, but only 3% wanted to do so. Of course, the results show a great change in those years. We can look to other northern countries and see that it seems that there is also a big change in attitude. For example, 30% of Norwegian doctors were in favor of death support in 2019 but only 15% in 2009. In Finland, 46% of doctors were in favor of death support, but support for such assistance was 29% in 2002. In 2013, 33% of Swedish physicians were in favor of death support. In Norway, 40% of nurses were in favor of death support in 2019 and 25% were ten years earlier. I am more involved in the report, since we have obtained information about the situation in our neighboring countries. For those who do not know that death aid is not permitted in the North countries it is well recommended. The Beneux countries were called the first to allow it, i.e. The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland have also done so, as well as certain states in the United States and Canada. I may be forgetting something, because this has changed a bit in the last few years. In a request to the highest degree. A medical minister, who received a report on August 27, was asked for such a survey. The Ministry failed to do so, but the report itself answered that such a study would not be opposed. A respectable president. In view of the fact that at times some of the polls that have been published on this delicate subject have been cast down, I think that we are. Parliaments who make the matter normal to the Ministry themselves are doing this, in cooperation with the Medical Association, to perform such an investigation, i.e. Check for the position of health care providers. I mentioned the Medical Association, but of course it would be good to also speak to the U.S.New Nurses (Fégla) and even partners with more health care professionals. I think in this light it is also important that the research available on this matter - so far, Machine has done something by them. A report by the Department of Health said that the lines could be questioned in some way. At any rate, it would be important for independent analysis. So it was only shown that Machine's research was dependent on those who would have wanted them, which I don't think they are. If there is any concern about the possibility of another survey by some authority that the Ministry considers independent of them. In 2015, the Civil Republic of Machine made for himself such a survey that showed that three out of every four would agree that a person could be helped to end his life if he had an incurable disease. In 2019 a similar survey was conducted that gave respondents a positive view of the subject. At that time, 78% said they were supporting death support. A respectable president. I believe that the public is in favor of death support, but I also have a clear understanding that we are discussing delicate matters and that not all of us may share the same insight into the word death aid. As a result, I think it is very important that we call for the attention of a health care professional on death aid, and I expect such a conclusion to help us carry it out. I have said in this chair that I agree with death support, and I have referred them to the Dutch way, as it has been sometimes called, where there is a clear pattern of law about such assistance, as two doctors have to write on such requests for terminally ill individuals, and doctors feel unable to relieve the individual's suffering. It should be perfectly clear that the wish is individual and that the doctor will help with the procedure. In view of this, and really everything involved, of course, it is entirely dependent on doctors or other health care professionals, it is important that we recognize the position of the medical professional on the subject of death. Therefore, I propose this resolution with the sincere hope that the matter can be resolved quite quickly and definitely by committee. Although the matter is complicated and asks countless questions, what is being asked for here is simply to give the highest order. A health minister is involved in making a survey among health - care professionals, nothing else. This on its own should be relatively easy to deal with. In fact, many felt that we had wished for it and had hidden it. Healthcare Minister to do this with the approved request, both for 149 and for Council 150. But in view of the fact that this was not the case, we again make this clear request to the highest degree. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-03-12-66.u126	Mr. President. I can't sit here and just come up here for a minute to say a few words. My decisions are not to extend this meeting but only for a few minutes, mainly to thank you. The traveling overseer of the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, for her aim, to bring up a discussion of these delicate matters, as she put it, and in the way that she does it, in a balanced and grammatic manner, and in a more careful setting. Hv. A senator has not stressed his personal opinions on this matter except that it has declared that she is in favor of death with sound and sound evidence. So do I, for I have the pleasure of being a messenger with the wind. A senator and others. Here's a suggestion for a poll on death aid assessment among health care professionals. My feeling is that although this is as delicate a matter among these and many others, it is a great demand for this in that group, for it is, of course, the group of people who face challenging conditions of life, during illness, in major traumas that are difficult to describe and struggle with the development of difficult experiences. That's why it's important. Hv. A senator introduced previous studies and the development of a health care professional and health care providers in general and that this has been opened. It is the fact that healthcare professionals have had this choice, the decision to intervene in either the treatment or treatment or treatment or treatment of a life-free treatment. This has always been the case with our fine professionals. There have been unsolved laws and moral standards that may have been difficult for humans to discuss and talk to in general. Of course, we are here discussing a variety of guidelines. We're dealing with the very root of life, i.e. The moral standards, the outlook of people, the religious issues, and the legal and philosophical aspects also arise. Of course, health - care professionals are influenced by all of these, just like everyone else. Mr. President. The end of life, and I'm not talking about dying help, is not generally our language. Human beings are somehow programmed to make it easier to ward off this inevitable event in all of us in the longest laws. But if any man use any other word, it shall not be created: every man shall die once. As we walk in our lives, most of us will get to know, if not all of us, in one way or another, in this unique condition of life, the moments of death, the amazing, tiny fibers that part life and death, when these strands are lost. In fact, no matter how death is supposed to be, the same deep emotions come upon us, because we are dealing with the roots, something so amazingly close to us, the beginning and the end, triggers itself. It is no wonder that there may be differences in viewpoints on this subject, and all of us, as is often said in our daily discussion, can produce a wide range of scenarios. Examples of situations that are complex and demanding in life or in sickness, tragedy and accidents; hope, hopelessness, unbearable pain, silence, grief, anger, accusations, solutions, and hooks, both mental and physical. Mr. President. We have great knowledge. We have excellent professionals, health professionals, doctors, nurses, medical staff, and other varied people who care for us when we face problems. It is now that e.g. Pain treatment is developed so that no one should have to live with severe pain, pain, or pain. If we are considering this from that side, we can improve the quality of that service and have other options for it. Those who want to be careful pay attention to the fact that something is being offered that is premature, i.e. to end life. That we are breaking, that we are breaking all our standards of worth and respect. We need to think carefully about ourselves as individuals and as a nation how society we want to create from the beginning, how we want to create culture about our children, school, education, education, career, and how we want to end our life culture to create, die, and how we will change our outlook on death, and how we will end our lives, whether we personally have people to have something to say about it, when and how we will die if we want to. These are aggressive questions that cannot be answered, and they are personal. This is so that governments do everything within their power by public action to enable individuals to live, fewer people choose the option of taking their own lives. The number of people who choose it and especially young people is a concern. Mr. President. Many questions need to be answered. Do we offer death aid as a solution? And if we do, are we not saying something about respect for life? The value? Does it ever lie in life? That the value of human life at some point will no longer exist. Can only dying or dying persons be helped to die? And where do we place the limit on who is dying? That's a tough question. Is a physical disease more serious than a spiritual disease? Should this be considered? And who is suffering enough to get the help of the dead? How much suffering is sufficient to live up to, for example. how to endure suffering? These are thought - provoking questions that we need to consider.
