ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u1	A respectable president. The birth rate of Icelandic women has never been lower, and it has been summed up for an average of half a child in just ten years. In fact, this is the situation in the North and around Europe. By 2010, the birth rate for Icelandic women was the highest in Europe, but now it is sixth. When we were at the top, the average was 2.2 children per woman. On New Year's Eve, 2020, Erna Solberg, prime minister of Norway, asked the people to have more children. She said that she probably didn't have to explain how this was done and that she was going to give direct orders, but she was serious, for the Norwegian population is not growing enough. What's her concern? Yes, the welfare community does not depend on people who stop having children. The workers in the labour market create income and pay taxes, thus supporting those who have done their work in a job market. The upside - down wave of age cannot live up to the well - being of the child. In Iceland too few children are born today to keep the balance in the long run. Thus, the government's challenge is to promote further childbearing, and it is in our best interests to drive a family-friendly political bitch. We need more working hands in the long run, and in the long run, more little children will directly improve the standard of living for all of us. We should therefore encourage the fertility goddess to act, encourage her to lie down under the fur. Of this the people should think now when they travel within the house and within the country in the summer, not to forget them to travel just a little in the bedroom. Our mothers and sheep were able to multiply about 200,000 in ten years, and with the objective of protecting the welfare and economy with more children, we should also listen to Erna, for country, and country, and for the government box. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u2	A respectable president. 2%. A survey of the National Social Science Institute for the University of Iceland shows that opposers at the border are about 2% of the population, while 80% of the country's population strongly supports the current border action. Still, the other day I received a line from my good aunt in a foreign country who has a good look at the Icelandic national press talk and was totally snooped at this wolf's spray that was in this country because of relatively minor measures. She's in a country where she's been grounded, and all her everyday life kind of just killed in a shrink. I explained to her that the polls say otherwise, but opposers of the sufferers were just so loud and diligent in expressing their views. Who are these people anyway? I think they're some sort ofarchists, they're an anarchist to the right and the left, who look at the common people, the individuals on the other hand, and then the government, as an enemy, as a contrast, where the individual is always defending himself from the greed of the state. These are views that are all right with wood, and I'm sure it's ear - eared. But these are, you know, 2% of views. Yet, a person like that of 2% feels that there is a greater sound within the government than in the general population and you suspect that this view was on top of the government when the government broke down to guarantee by law that people could be cut to a place of infection, as a psychiatrist would like. [[The president calls.]] Then there were illustrations to the Google and Nazi concentration camps, and God knows what. [[The president calls.]] This, then, is another case in which right extremes get abnormal interpretations of the law. And that is because left men do not carry luck to work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u3	The president asks why. Senators, please show respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u4	Mr. President. The battle against Covid and the consequences of the pandemic has not been merely disease prevention and health care. It has also involved extremely extensive economic action, massive measures to protect Iceland, for the European public, so that the consequences of the epidemic would not be as severe as it would have been. The Congress has well agreed on a number of issues involved in the economic consequences of the epidemic, and last night I talked about them. one of those factors, i.e. The campaign starts work. This morning, an updated estimate from the International Remuneration Fund on Government Action compared with other countries. And now Iceland was beginning to be no longer one of the red countries, which for some reason had infiltrated their food previously, but we were now the greenest, and with a package of action as an inch more than 9% of land production, much more than in the other North countries, and despite the fact that here in the overall context, we were doing quite well in the struggle with the epidemic. For example, we have been able to keep society open much longer and more than neighboring countries. Vaccinations have been successful, we're on the right track there. It was evident that when the first edition of the International Cash Fund on the estimate of action was made, community centers arose. I look forward to seeing the positive reactions that will no doubt be involved in the same good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u5	V.E.G. President. Despite economic hardship, fish farming has earned more money than ever, and its value has never been more. Last year alone, more than 40,000 tons of farmed salmon were slaughtered, and the export value was more than 29 billion. The value of exported seafood was some 270 billion. and thus, the proportion of fish farming from the export value of marine products was set in about 11%. That's less than 5% of the nation's market value. Thus, it is not merely a local fishing industry but a goal to become one of Iceland's shallow - working roads. It has a potential for growth, in contrast to other fishing roads, which travel to a limited resource based on sustainable use. For all the interested persons in the construction of the land, growth in fish farms is important. In most cases, a construction agency has found that about 81% of the industry was attributed to fish farms. Especially in Eastern Europe, where 10,000 tons were slaughtered last year. It has been a pleasure to observe Eastern Fishing, which began in 2012 in theiftieth world, and then has successfully built up operations there and in the plains and slaughterings of the Deepvowed Sea. Civilnes are part of the product industry, and the fishing is in the Village and Gudgland. Thus, the function of about 100 employees is located in many parts of the country. The same applies to the firm of Laxa fish farms, which run fish farms in Elfus, but which have a vast, perfect marine hysteria at an emergency with a 16,000 ton production warrant for salmon. There is a slaughter in Bustland, and it's owned by their partner and fellow partner in the Deepvogur. Although a large part of Iceland has been shut down for fish farming since 2004, governments place more and more strict demands on the fire, fear for environmental impacts on the growth of fish farms. Let us make rich requirements for building fires in agreement with the environment, for economic prosperity will continue to depend on the growth of exports.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u6	A respectable president. During the grandest conversation here at the General Assembly last night, in Iceland, there was a mean of how good we are in our country. Average doesn't say how good or bad people are about what's bad in this country. The latest question about how to eliminate poverty is the highest priority. The secretary of finance put in this discussion at the General Assembly: "Where shall we get financial support for it? Where should we get funding to eliminate all the poverty and poverty we face? The government's latest play on the most unemployed business of the long-term, supported by 472,000 dollars. in a month plus a pension fund of 11%, which is a good thing as far as it goes, or just past the election. No one asked where to get funds to cover these expenses. No one in the government has asked where the budget should come from to cover the hundreds of billions of dollars that the government's actions against the Covid-19 virus epidemic have cost the government's financial resources. No, this cost comes from a wealth of money, and it also helps to prevent the miserable situation of those living in poverty. It sucks that poor people will not eat food for their children except just at the beginning of the month. 472,000. for taxes there is a high dollar in the worst set, which must try to reach half the lower amount, or more than 200,000 dollars. paid in a month. Poverty or poverty is an economic situation in the administration of the government of those who suffer in need, lack of food, housing, clothing, and other necessities, and have greater access to health care. We have children in these awful conditions. Thousands of children live in miserable conditions and live in poverty. The people say, " Let's get out of poverty right away. ' People first, then all the other stuff.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u7	Mr. President. I'm going to discuss the mechanism of action in relation to the democratic order we live in. The Council establishes laws in a specific way and in the rules that apply to it. Of course, the law must not go against regulations in the Republic's constitution. Songs set, e.g. The European Commission is restricted. In this way, the regulations that come from government officials must be addressed in terms of improvement. Of course, they must be backed up by law and must not be opposed to the law. It has been considered to be serious if the highest. Government ministers do not respect the laws of the land in this way. Recently, the State ruled that it was not permitted to oblige people in a district hotel, as required in the Regulation. Secretary of health. In other words, the result was that regulations in the Regulation are the highest. A health minister would not have legal support. But rarely, Mr. President, one of the booths is unique. It is not new, then, that the minister governs his legal entity by the regulation that has not adequately corrected. This morning's newspaper discusses the proposed change of Regulation. Healthcare Minister on reimbursement of costs for the services of independent expert physicians and doubts that the regulations of the Regulation are subject to improvement. Dögg Pálsdóttir's daughter, lawyer to Iceland's Medical Association, discussed this in an article in the medical journal recently, where she says, at least the two regulations of the Regulation on reimbursement of costs for the services of internally functioning specialists have failed to improve at the time of the Regulation. Named 7. ...,of the obligation of experts to provide Iceland's Medical Insurance and the information needed for monitoring health insurance. In his article, Dögg said that there was no improvement in this regulations at the time, that support was first introduced by law No. 92/2020. Then, too, it mentions 5. The Regulation involved in the use of health insurance and health care services to the health care providers should submit accounts for health insurance in the form established by the Agency, but for which there is no legal authority. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Is it acceptable in the state of democracy to the highest degree? Will a minister repeatedly seek to govern his government by means of regulations that do not support the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u8	President. When land is cultivated, it may be wise to rest for a while and then return to breeding. I think of a case I'm talking about here, that I've been resting it for a while, but I'm going to take it back up again. This is a matter of great interest to me and of the domestic food production and ideas I have to develop in the South around the area of the year. I've been talking about this before, Madam President, and that's because I think it's a national thing that I specifically encourage the General Assembly and the government to film. We talk about it at times that we want to promote domestic food production. There is nothing left to wait on taking a big, specific step in doing so. I have watched the South in particular, which is a flourishing food - producing region. There are a large part of the EU's vegetable production, circumstances that are particularly good for the earth, and short for the main market, a great harvest of grain, a research center in Gunnar's hole, a political research that needs to be done, and other things, that I now don't talk about the Gardening School of Smoking that has been rocking Icelandic gardening for decades. It is our responsibility to maintain the work and education there. Lactation is powerful in the area. I think it was referred to here by some sort of whale. A senator earlier. We've got a fish farm and fish farm in Grindavik that can be connected through South Coast, etc. President. I have a case here at the council on this very issue, and I intend to assume that it is not necessarily certain that it will end. But I encourage the minister there who is challenged to record the case simply, that the Iceland government will come in this national language in the South.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u9	Mr. President. I'm going to step out here just to travel cars or wheelhouses, which are the most popular vehicles in the country. Today's morning newspaper reports that a bicycle box is repeated over the same period last year, and it appears that all new vehicles will be sold out in May through June. Furthermore, the report says that during the summer, everyone will travel within the country because of the virus epidemic. Despite the popularity of a bicycle wheel, wheelhouses are being ebbed out in popular areas for decades, such as Lake Saturday and the Snowy Valley. Shepherds have received a letter stating that they should get away, and the adjustment period is very short. In the Valley of Turbulence, the decision may affect about 300 to 400 people. It is the forestry of the state that rules in the Turbine Valley and is responsible for this behavior by the Environment Minister. The Minister of Environment has encouraged the people to travel within the country and then wants to determine where they should not be. On Lake Saturday, there is the Blue Forest, which shuts down the most popular wheelhouse in Iceland and puts it as a battle for bicycle owners. The first trailers arrived on Lake Saturday 50 years ago. More than 200 trailers have been put on many expense and employment to prepare their happy moments for decades. Changes in regulations have made it necessary for the security of the territory to be properly adjusted. The farm society is not prepared to contribute. The number of bicycle owners has offered to participate in the cost and contribute to a total of 20 million. K. But the local community has not seen reason to answer that question. More bicycle areas in the country may need improvements. If the reaction is the same as in the Blue Forest and in the Snowy Valley, it is clear that Iceland's wheelbed will run its course. [[The president calls.]] Farmers are encouraged to travel within the country and to sell bicycle trailers, but at the same time, a campaign against bicycle areas is launched.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u10	A respectable president. I met with the representatives of the 46,000 older citizens who live in the country who present their main points for the coming elections. At the meeting in Stagarhyl, a highly ill - informed Witness, a good spirit reigned, as was usually the case when we met a representative of older people. The first point is that older people are allowed to work as they please. It's important that we make further peace with people on holidays, but each thousand in the rise of the holiday market costs the state's budget 200 million. As mentioned at the meeting. I wondered if the lowest tithe, 3,500 people who have no other income to cut or improve its benefits, could receive an additional payment as the sensitivity of the lowest income limit. This group is always on demand, and there could be $25,000. Remuneration was relevant to a person who has a right of 300,000 dollars. per month. A respectable president. Another factor that older ones call for is the removal of a 70 - year - old rule and the retirement of their own. They noted that when people go to pension, their 67 - year - old age controls much of the time. Here is a matter that is important to consider in view of the growing age of the people and of the active force of the people who live longer on the basis of their age. Then older people want health care to rock aging services that are closer to the group during their early life by working together as a team of doctors, nurses, Janus projects, and other projects. Older people are calling for new farm plans, which are now scarce. This calls for an intermediate in a home and a nursing home, which could truly be run by private partners. Here's a very interesting idea to look at. A respectable president. How important it is when older ones respond to the urge to influence their own lives! We do so by increasing freedom and means in this group's housing and services and ensuring the survival of the lowest in this group by ensuring the lowest paying of public security in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u11	Mr. President. The European language has been a little over again. Good health. It is a policy list to continue its member case on Iceland's entrance into the best relationship between Europe's independent and sovereign countries. But under such circumstances, people would like to ask, " Why is this your goal in restoration? ' The answer is simple. Entering the European Union is not an independent objective. The entrance, however, is a major step toward many goals for which all members of the body are fighting. Entry into the European Union and the uptake of EUR follows long-traveled prognition. He will run a business in Iceland with increased awareness and lower interest rates. He'll make the insurance policy unnecessary for the country's home. He's going to cut the cost of the homes at the food basket. entrances enable us to cope with problems too big for individual countries, especially climate change. In the European Union, there is great support for agriculture, especially in the north. It is a top priority for small enterprises and support for innovation. A more stable policy also supports economic growth and growth is our key to stepping out of an ongoing world crisis without having to resort to significant cuts and tax increases. We know all of this well. The list is a long list of the benefits of walking in the European Union. Now is the time to mention the location of the building of vaccines if we do not take refuge in the European Union, and the answer is, of course, much worse. Therefore, entering the European Union is not an independent objective, but it is our way of improving quality of life and a more comprehensive solution to many major problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u12	A respectable president. How can we be self-sustained? That is a matter of concern to many, especially when we are getting out of a crisis with this pandemic. What do we do to ensure our food security, e.g. when we rely so much on import as we can see? These are questions to be answered, and this is a discussion that needs to take place at most levels of the administration. Think of a big, think green, is the title of the website as Eimur, the New World of the North, and the union of rural society in the Northlands and Westerns, along with Hacking Hells, standing before tomorrow. The website is a prelude to the Hacking Northland solution tournament, which then begins. There is the theme energy, food and water, or the Holy Trinity of sustainability, as they say themselves. The objective is to encourage people to think about how to use northern resources in a sustainable way to the future. On the meeting page, according to the President's permission: Since these resources are linked in an unbreakable bond, it can be helpful to think about them together. These are the resources we're rich in and the resources we're using. How can we be globally self - sufficient and exemplary? I think this campaign is truly exemplary. This work is on the contrary to the agencies and foundations of the government in order to work out solutions to many of the big questions that we now face. As most of these days are, and I pointed to here, it's online, and I encourage people who want to know more about this to listen to the sentence tomorrow, starting at two o'clock and is on the Facebook page of Eims.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u13	Mr. President. I'm going to take a few words into account. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, a new assessment of the International Cash Fund on the scope of support measures undertaken by the Icelandic government due to reactions to the Covid problem. I think it is very important that members of the Parliament realize that the figures that flew here before the weekend, indicating that the support in this country had been much smaller than in most countries we compare with, were based on wrong grounds. Not all relevant measures were taken into account in this relationship; in fact, there was a considerable shortage of action taken into account by direct links to Covid and reactions to the problem as it seems to be some other reference period. Action was only taken into account last year but in various reference countries at least During this same year, action was taken into account, and it seems to be in position that there have been real - life numbers from Iceland and other governments. In many ways, therefore, apples and oranges were compared, and the result, of course, was wrong. Instead of protecting the Icelandic government from 2.1% of gross domestic product in support of the report, there are 9.2% of gross domestic product, a huge difference. There are many ways in which you can stretch such comparisons and pull them. In this regard, however, it is important to gain correction, as the World Bank seems to have agreed. [[The president calls.]] We have come much closer to comparing comparable things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u14	V.E.G. President. The role of a financial body is very important in the handling of government funds. Hv. This morning, a body board arranged for a council member to discuss its opinion on a proposal for a judicial resolution of financial plans for the year 2022-206. 13th. The role of the Council in evaluating financial and financial policies and policy meets the baseline values set in 2 mg. Section 6. the same law, on sustainability, caution, stability, firmness and transparency, as well as on the financial conditions of Article 7. The rest of the law, the debt rate, the debt ratio. As we know, financial laws have been changed and the role of a financial body has been set aside in evaluating the government's plans to re-activate the financial rule in 2026, with the cessation of 2025 debt trust, in which terms of financial order have been established. In addition to supporting a general and objective discussion of government policy and public financial policy, financial and financial policies have been very beneficial and guidance. There is no change, and the meeting with the Council was, as usual, illuminating. What is unorthodox now, but at the same time the importance of the Council may be based on its role, the economic consequences of the crown virus and the fact that we are in an election year. However, we are not being left on the terms of the government, and it is a great project to restore stability and stability with a spirit of sustainability. If you are rich in this regard, financial adviser's assessment is that you will be able to set the basis for the declared government's objective of government finance and their escort can be reactivated in 2026.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u15	Mr. President. It has now been reported from Denmark that the authorities in that country have decided to stop using the AstraZeneca vaccine because of adverse reactions that have been observed after its use. Danir is going to offer the 150,000 individuals who have been previously vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine. This amounts to the same treatment for 10,000 people in Iceland. After Danir has stopped using the material, we must receive a statement from the Supreme Court. Health Minister on what the government will do, whether or not they will follow Dana's advice, or whether this vaccine will be continued, which is most controversial. I am convinced that after this report from Denmark this morning, the number of people who refuse to receive the vaccine will increase. Of course, it would be preferred to get a grip on Þórólfur himself, i.e. the members of Parliament had an interview with him directly. This could be done if he were to be called before him. the health committee so that the surgeon's views could be addressed on this matter. The good news, however, is that there have been reports of increased availability of Pfizer vaccine for Europe and that millions of doses have been divided and may be the source of this trap. But we need to get it from the government whether they intend to continue using the AstraZeneca vaccine for vaccination in Iceland and for what groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u16	Mr. President. The Istanbul Convention is a preemptive agreement and a conflict against violence against women and domestic violence. It was approved at the European Council on May 11, 2011, but in this country it was validated in April 2018. The Istanbul Convention is one of the most important agreements on the European Council and one of the most powerful instruments to fight international internationally against sexual violence, domestic violence, and forced marriages. The lives of millions of women and girls in the Member States of the European Parliament would be seriously affected if, as it turns out, Member States such as Poland, Turkey, Slovakia, and Hungary report this tremendously important agreement. What once appeared to be a relatively undisputed 25 - page document was to become a stumbling block in the European Council's Member States on the definition of gender and imaging for a larger civil war that has been enlarging and scraping over the last few years between old Eastern Europe and Western Europe. One by one, the old Eastern European countries turn their backs on the agreements, claiming it will reduce their production of family values. Turkey, who hosted the contract, will pull out of it on July 1, next. Poland has indicated that the contract, the lower branch of the Polish council, is disputed. Other European countries, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Czech Republic signed the document but have not translated its terms into law. The opposition is about cultural warfare between political, anti-feminian elements against, of course, the rights of women and girls to have a decent life. It's not just a propaganda war against the Istanbul Treaty, it's also an anti-European propaganda war and an anti-ESB propaganda war, as Daniel Holtgen, a spokesman for the Council of Europe said yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We, Icelandic senators, are required to speak up and protest this action of the European Council in any way we can, and I encourage all of us to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u17	A respectable president. Here's a bill to correct a variety of laws in the educational and cultural sectors regarding the building of a criminal record. These are preschool, elementary school, high school, sports, youth service, high school, music school, learning and professional counselors, education and ability and teaching skills. The bill aims for consistent legislation on the criteria for working with children and young people. A respectable president. Now I press on to the material content of the bill of what is recommended here. This bill outlines the same type of changes in all the layers used by the bill. In all the laws that are discussed in this legal section, it is suggested that workers should still not be punished for violations of XXII. No. 19/1940. At consultation, proof of good conduct or authority should be obtained for the recruiter to obtain information from a criminal record. This is suggested in line with Child Protective Law, No. 80/2002, so if the applicant has been judged for other fractures, they should be evaluated for its effect on the ability to perform the current job, including taking into account the nature of the procedure and the severity of the fracture. This also applies to contractors and contractors. The objective of the bill is to ensure that updated information on these issues is always available. This suggests in the bill that the recruiter has the authority to request a renewal of criminal proof or permission to obtain information from a criminal record. To be moderate, however, this should be done up to a maximum of once a year unless information is provided that warrants further collection of information. A respectable president. If this bill becomes a law, then all the regulations on the recruitment bans in education and culture that concern children and young people will be uniformed and would be a great requisite in this, especially for children and young people. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andtowhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u18	A respectable president. Here's a bill for correctation of basic school law, No. 91/2008, and high school law, No. 92/2008, on the grounds of harassment. Iceland has made a commitment to ensure the safety and well - being of children, including the United Nations Children's Convention, which was legalized here by law No. 19/2013. Singleness is a social ill, and it is vital that all in the school community do their part to eliminate it. Presumptuousness is aimed at supporting the school community for mobbing with general counseling, counseling, and information giving, as well as for referring specific matters to the Council of Education, which ends with respect. Such a view often contains guidance to school members, including parents, on how to resolve matters in a child's best interests. Now I press on to the material content of the bill of what is recommended here. The main objective of the bill is to strengthen the improvement of the Council by comparable changes in elementary school law, No. 91/2008, and high school law, No. 92/2008. Thus, the responsibility and duties of the school society at each school level will no longer be obligatory to discuss the work of professional advice in the regulations of the regulations. Rather, it will be provided in a specific set of laws in each school section. With 1st. 2.g. The bill is instructed that the minister of the well-being of harassment operates at a basic and high-school level. The Presidency shall be arranged by three nobles and three guardians with knowledge, education, and experience useful in counseling and curing. A minister is authorized to hide the National Institute of Education or other bodies in the management of the Council. The article is in accordance with current procedures, but with its legalisation it is aimed at ensuring that the Council has improved in intensity. With 2 mg. The role of the Precise Council is required in accordance with current procedures. The paragraph is directly related to 3 mg. to work with personal information. This paragraph is due to the development of the Council of Professional Relations, but today the Council provides more sensitive information on matters that are intended to be treated. That's 4 mg. to find a provision that deals with the right of the public for access to the data and is the directive in accordance with 2 mg. 45. g. Child Welfare, No. 80/2002. This proposal is based on information from the premedical Council of Bullies that is often derived from data rooted in child protection and that the same restrictions are appropriate on the dispensing of such data in the case of mobbing and pedophiles at Children's Committees. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u19	A respectable president. This is where we'll recommend a bill to legalize the change in media law, No. 38/2011. The bill is aimed at implementing the European Parliament and Council Directive 2018/1808 for the change in EU audio and imaging directive 2010/13. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the status of the media, especially by the development and growth of social media. The reason for the change in the audio and image media directive was that it did not include sufficient protection for children and consumers of so-called images, which is a new term for what is called the English form of fake forms. The best known of them is YouTube, but Facebook also agrees with them. The attitudes of people have changed, especially children. Linear views have decreased, and people are increasingly looking at material in nonlinear programs and images. The rules of the above - mentioned compromises were considered to be consistent in order to promote equal communication, regardless of their means of making use of the media. A respectable president. Now I'm going to go to the main topic of the bill. First, it is suggested that motion - sharing services fall in part under the jurisdiction of the media committee and new guidelines in the media. This change is a new one, since it contains certain aspects of the film industry, even though such contributions are not in nature the media. Second, there is a detailed law code that determines the stability of the image industry, i.e. Under the jurisdiction of which the EEA will hear their operation. Third, the appropriate measures taken by image partners must be taken in order to protect children and young people from material and user - producing material that can adversely affect physical, mental, or moral development. Unauthorized material must be distributed that promotes violence, hatred, and criminal action. This has specifically given an incentive for terrorism and material that attracts racial and foreign hatred. Similarly, comparable rules apply to the media. Here it is to be noted that the rules are not about taking video games that are shared in their ways but that they make it easy for their users to report things that are contrary to their rules and directives. Communicators are obliged to take appropriate measures if it becomes evident that the material violates the law. Fourth, there are adjustments to national media services and how to respond to television programs from one state that are directed to users in another state. Here are countries that are directed toward and that matter violates their laws in a way that makes it easier to stop such broadcasts or to demand that the state take appropriate action. Fifthly it is required that 30% of the party's supply by order will be removed from European work and advertisement rules to allow the maximum advertising to be 20% at specific periods, but not bound to 20% per hour as currently indicated. sixth, the bill expects the media board to implement plans and measures to promote and develop public media lock as well as other information sources for the EFTA monitoring agency and to participate in the work of the European Marine Observation Agency. Finally, the bill suggests that there are new sources in the directive to set further rules than those stated there. One is that it is clearly presented to users that if the introduction is longer than five minutes, it is permitted that only those who do not engage in economic activities may be allowed to cost their child material. Other changes are minor. A respectable president. I believe that the bill I recommend here includes a number of corrective improvements to the changes that have occurred in recent years in media and community media and suggest that the bill be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u20	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion to anything. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. However, before the situation begins, I feel that I have the right and the right thing to do. The General and Education Committee says this is where I have some doubts about the 18th floor. The bill will last at 73rd. The constitution. However, I notice that there was a special examination in the Ministry and that the bill gave special consideration to 73rd. The republic's constitution, which ensures that this will not be a general censor. I think it's 18. The bill, about the fact that there's an obligation to the media to have a minimum limit on some material from certain nations, conflicts with it. I want at least attracts the committee's attention and desires that they examine it carefully and specifically. That's gonna hire at least my attitude toward the matter in due time. I believe it is necessary for the General and Education Committee to get the government rights specialists to review these regulations specifically. Other than that, I hope to do so. A global and educational committee works this bill as well and in an orderly way as it has when it comes to another prime event.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u21	Mr. President. Today we're dealing with the plans for the pro-traven and innovation ministers to lay down the New World Center for Iceland. With the bill, the main decision is to respond to the Minister's decision to put down Iceland's New Creation Center and establish the Technical Environment of Iceland. There is no strong vision of the future of innovation in Iceland. As mentioned in the Committee under Article 1, a smaller part of the work committee from 2rd. that is in the bill's report on the goal of promoting official support for innovation in the country by simple design, clear responsibility, and a strong link to university, career, and pasture. The focus of the bill highlights the expansion of national innovations, support for high-tech innovations, priorities, reduction of development and flexibility, so that public funds are most useful to the projects it is given. The goals are certainly good, but unfortunately it is clear that this bill will not achieve them. Mr. President. Last week, a man named Kristján Leósson sent a letter to all members of Congress, where he deals with the situation, and I wish, by permission of a president, to read only from his letter, although I believe that it has something to do in the Senate and hope that all members of Congress have already read it: A new centre has performed services, research and practical research projects in cooperation with individuals and businesses, both the start line companies and established companies, as well as the university and other research centres in the country, as well as abroad. The Agency has been involved in the construction, research in land and road technology, construction projections and research in chemical engineering, chemical technology, biomechanical and energy technology, as well as to offer services and services to pioneers in the above areas. The Agency has also handled public pioneers in both the capital area and the national settlements and has offered limited but acceptable guidance for pioneers at any early stage. The Agency has hired 6,500 m2 a specialised research building at a State's Köldnahol, where the Agency and its predecessors have been at home for the past 50 years. Part of that house was recently constructed for tens of millions. Part of the home is rented to sceptical companies who rely on access to laboratorys, research tools, workshops, and other special facilities. Each year the government's production to NMI has studied some 700 million. K. and the Agency's resources from services and national and international research grants have studied comparable amounts during the past few years. At the beginning of 2020, 81 employees were employed in 73 status values. Some 20 of these workers were directly supportive of pioneers, communication with the school system, digital carpenters, and related objects. Of these, there were six places outside the capital area. Mr. President. There were reviews for ten days and 45 sources from 39 sources, including individuals, universities, institutions, rural communities, and stakeholders. About two thirds of the servers were negative toward the bill and made serious comments on material and content. Some comments were very direct, and reviews from the Space Iceland organization, when the bill is said to be a failure, in opposition to its own declared objectives, the time frame of change is too short, and the problems intended to be solved are not associated with a planned operation, as well as the lack of analysis and consultation in the process are highly critical. A smaller part of the employment committee was also clear in their opposition to the 2nd. and by permission of the President's 1st article: The most part has suggested some necessary changes to the bill. In view of the initial nature of the case and the failure of the case by the Ministry, it is clear that the matter cannot be supported. Still, there is a reason for the procedure to be blurred and diagnostic, which should have led to a fundamental change that was unconvinced or absent. Then the time frame of the transition process is too short and the Agency has not been molded for the activities of the Agency. Part 1 of it is less convincing that there is a need to postpone further discussion and prepare for further discussion. At that time, this time point is particularly unfortunate to have uncertainty in the system, and there is rarely a greater need for support in innovation and pioneering in the country than at present. A smaller subset in the context of how far the Ministry has gone to the Agency before the will and approval of the Council makes it difficult to take steps back, disappear from the decision, and start the journey at the right start. During the past few decades, the importance of international cooperation and international market attendance is increasing. In spite of increased emphasis on national international competitiveness, the fact is that Iceland's competitiveness has been paid internationally. As noted by Kristján Leósson's review of the matter, Iceland was in the 13th list of Global Innovation Indexs in 2015-2017, but in the years 2018/2020 it has been sitting in 20,◯23. Sit down. This is the same period of continuous annual economic growth has been 27%. Kristján also notes that among Iceland's major strengths over the past few years, the number of published sciences and the percentages of research funded by foreign funding have been considered to be low among major weaknesses, however, there has been a low ratio of high- and intermediate services in domestic production and export. In addition, the country is very low in terms of the number of graduates from scientific and technological studies, but in recent years there has not been a continuing increase in the number of government initiatives. Then, in the 2008 McKinsey report, the importance of building almost exclusively on the new export. Not to be overlooked is the fact that international cooperation and cooperation in the public field are just as important for the international competitiveness of the country and to participate in that work must be knowledge and human knowledge of the public who is supporting the ecosystems of innovation and has the opportunity to work on such international cooperation projects. The importance of supporting innovation, research, and development is undisputed and has not been added in recent years. However, there are several findings in the figures, as indicated by the review of Kristján Leósson, which was mainly due to an increase in the share of companies during research and development in high school and public institutions, particularly in public institutions. In foreign studies it has been demonstrated that there is a clear link between the public investments and the private sector in research and development work, i.e. that by increasing their own contribution to university and public research institutions, the State encourages further activity in the private sector. Today, much emphasis is being placed on the use of innovations that resulted from the crisis we face and the realization that now there is no reason to reduce the support of international cooperation and the development of innovation and technology. On the contrary, it would be wise to strengthen even more effective measures to support innovation and emphasize the arrival of the State in covering gaps between research and market. At the same time, we would have reason to promote the institutions of the government that carry out technical research, the services of employment, and the many aspects of surveillance. The bill to be on official support for innovation is, in fact, only about the project on how to lay down and establish Technical Institutes. The opportunity is not new to discuss how public support for innovation and pioneering will be implemented. The bill lacks a vision of the role the State should play and how services to important partners in innovation are best cared for. There is absolutely no provision for an important service, e.g. in the country, in the early stages, and in support of international attendance, international cooperation, and many other challenges. Other important climate change projects and the other challenges are linked to the Covid-19 pandemic. Thus, changes that have occurred on the bill call for the Ministry to provide free service to pioneers who are to be available all over the country, and for a digital innovation puzzle that was already being passed on by the New World Translation Center. According to the report on the bill, cooperation across the Ministry on Neon Education is also expected to be supported by the Ministry on Social Neoplasms, the support of rapid and innovations across the country and that the Ministry continues to support the seminary. All of the above was NMI before. What is the purpose of the expansion of the ministry's activities at the expense of specialized institutions? Mr. President. There's a lot of light on the bill. Our goals are blurred and worn out. In fact, there is little in this bill that simple support, repairs, assumes equipment purchases, or increases perspective. It doesn't cut down, either. It seems to be spreading throughout the administrations, the loss of knowledge, and the cost of closure alone is over 300 million. The bill does not specifically explain the arrival of the official. New creation is an investment to the future. The innovation and support of pioneers must be defined in the musculoskeletal system and particularly in the country. As with so many times before, the landscape is at its backside, and the answer to a minister to meet the complaints of the country's settlements is a great smudge, the newly formed treasure of Loa. Why start another fund in which small funds are graded random and missing continued support? In recent years, official support for innovation - or lack of it - has been severely criticized in the East, believing that this lack of access to the support of innovation in the part of the country literally had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the part of the country. This would have been natural in view of the prospect of establishing places in that part of the country as well, but the opportunity is not new and is, in fact, subtracting support for innovation in the country, despite the beautiful words and claims of other lands. The obvious possibility is that even the capital would have been better placed in the national parts of the rural community as part of the build-up funds of the part of the country that have the role of supporting culture, employment development, and innovation rather than creating yet another fund for which the pioneers need to apply. The establishment of small funds here and there is in no way a good vision for the future. The situation is, therefore, simple: The best step to improvement is to retract a prime minister's bill and start a review on professional grounds. We members of the United Nations will not support this bill, and I challenge the members of the board to look into the matter further and vote according to their conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u22	Mr. President. We will discuss at least two issues, one bill to legalize official support for innovation and technology funds. This is the nature of the case, according to a very large case. If we look back on our last election, the 2017 General election, then the innovation was one of the matters that was very loud in all discussion and that everybody wanted Lilja's approval, I'll tell you. But we are in the position to discuss a bill that, unfortunately, has to be said at the moment, proved incomplete. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, a member of the Central Work Board, gave a minor opinion at the early stage of court treatment here at the General Assembly. These include the statement in Article 1. The bill has virtually no correlation in the content of the bill. This was repeatedly pointed out in the reviews and on the part of guests to meet encounters. Business committee. With the proper simplicity, it can be said that there are only two active branches of the bill. It is one thing to shut down Iceland's New Creation Center and, on the other, to give a minister permission to establish a private financial centre. In our opinion, we referred to Kristján son Leósson, who gave us a very thorough review and came to the committee for a guest. He is the evolution director of the Neo-creation company, DT Equispionment ehf. and has a long career in studies and studies and innovations. In our minority, we pointed to his comments that depend on how the preparation of the matter seems to have been inaccessible, and I refer to it. There is concern that there is a situation where there is strong doubts that this issue is too short for innovation in the country. It should then be noted that the development of a structural research policy is not well cared for. This is especially true in view of significant social interests from basic research involved in buildings, road construction, and a number of other factors - I don't even have to mention molds. There are some things that must be viewed as peculiar. It has not been clear, I will say, in all the treatments of the matter why it was chosen to hide that wonderful institution, the Homeland and Human Resource Institute, which I shall least lean upon, the oversight of the new competitive fund of construction and humanitarian research. It is modest to say that such uncertainty may not seem to fit the site of the agency's work as a monitoring agency. Nor has it been answered why this fund was not entrusted to Iceland's Research Centre, most often called Rannis, which uses similar funds. There is great uncertainty about the financial consequences of the proposed changes and the financial plans of the new organisation presented on the labour committee meetings are only some sort of drudgery and extremely imperfect as such, I allow myself to say. It is not good to think about how workers were treated in connection with the degradation of the Second Creation Centre, but it was found in the treatment of the case that employees felt unsure about how that process would be carried out. Classes made comments, gave reviews, and stressed the importance of ensuring the security of most people in the implementation of projects handled by the New Creation Centre. I'll allow me to say it here, as is indicated by our opinion. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson's Sigurður, that the change in the smaller portion will support that these factors have not been given sufficient attention in preparing the bill. Then I'd like to say that a more-than-important change is needed. The employment committee aims to improve this incomplete bill. We members of the Central Party supported them in votes after 2nd. for the reason they have fallen to improve at least the uncertainty caused by the bill. It stands to say that governments have failed to successfully promote innovation when it comes to innovation by active involvement in employment and country development in the future development of economic life in the country. We believe that powerful innovation is an important requirement for providing support for the future prosperity of the people of the land. Madam President. I would like to call attention to a letter written to members of the council from the noted Kristján son of Leósson's son, dated April 6 of the past and sent by email on April 7. The headline is: a letter to the council for a bill to legalize official support for innovation. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to refer only to the conclusion. It is a letter to six tightly documented pages, and the subversive tool bears the heading ◯ The consequences. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ If the bill is adopted at the General Parliament, the result will be that the official Agency will be put down, a private technical centre, a government cost, will be established, and will need to develop its reputation and fight to secure financial management ground, e.g. to seek funding from EU protocols, which the New World Translation Centre has done in recent years with good results, reduced the cost to hundreds of millions of dollars into the economy that has been developed into the Agency and partners within the country, to be sure. Kristján continues to deal with changes in research in this subject, and his conclusion is that this is a major change from the Icelandic sector, especially from the technical, manufacturing, and construction industry, has benefited for over half a century. Then, in the conclusion of Kristján Leósson, the results of accepting this bill are in his opinion, as he puts it: ▪... a lax environment for research and support of Icelandic employment, a more distributed service and an increase in the direct costs of the public both in short and long periods of time. The current cost of losing opportunities for supporting employment and building new opportunities for uncertainty over the past 14 months will not be so easily appreciated, but it is evident that the cost is considerable. The vast majority of these problems are due to the lack of proper preparation before the journey. Indeed, many things could have been added in the environment of innovation in Iceland and the activities of Iceland's New World Translation Centres by appropriate analysis, responsible management, and planned steps to change with the practical use of public capital. - He concludes his letter by saying, by permission of the President: It is unacceptable for the Council to agree on the changes as important as those on such a weak foundation. The easiest step to improvement is to drop the Minister's bill and start work on the reviews and construction of the research, development and innovation systems of the industry and innovations on professional grounds. Madam President. These words should be taken into consideration. I noted earlier that we members of the Central Party supported all the proposed changes. In view of our appreciation for the work committee, we considered them to be improving. But I'd like to add that bill is that way, as I've traced, including... ... witha reference to the discussion, and the guests have found some trouble. A professional committee and what they had to say about it, that we members of the Central Party cannot support the case. Madam President. We are also discussing another subject, the Technical Development Fund. Although we may not be exactly happy with how we were involved in this matter, it does not simply involve removing a chapter from a valid law and establishing as an independent law on technological development. We believe that Technical Development Fund is a useful institution, and of course we want it to be fully improved. This is all we've been doing, extending the current law about him, but now in the costume of a special law on the fund we'll support.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u23	Madam President. I'd just like to step back to the Technical Development Fund. This aim is to set up specifics for this fund, which has been a part of the global government law on government support for technology development, innovation, and employment development. In this work, it is important to maintain harmonization in all the legislation on innovation. Technology fund plays a key role in this support system of innovation here and is, in fact, the branch of state funds to support technology development in the country. That is why his law is essential for us to use our resources and resources in this area, to stand equal in number to other nations, to developed nations, to principles of life, and to build the basis for the production industry as a industry, and to use a new global market shot in various articles. These are noble and important goals. The financial development of the country has so far been considerably lower than in other countries. However, in recent years the Icelandic government has made a little better up for the epidemic, and it is well, and it is well paid up to this legal group. Nevertheless, we still find ourselves in an international comparison and almost all the funds for technological development have gone into development. There's another thing about this, i.e. that Technological Development Fund cannot be an independent donor for innovation in the country at the same time as it is its owner for the individual sceptres. In this regard there are conflicting conflicting interests, and it is of interest to consider the reviews that have been received to the committee. If we look at just a review from the Coalitions of Coalitions and Geniuss, they're just worried about the conflict of interest, and they're making comments about it in their review. They say, for example. in the letter b that it will include The role of technological development fund to strengthen the structure of sceptres and to participate in them at the early stages of innovation. The organization of authors and intellectualists believes that these two things do not go together at all. Technical Development Fund is a competitive fund, and as such it must be an independent and impartial assessment center of applications in the fund. If technology's funds are involved in activities that are applying for competition with other projects, they are really not an obligatory eater but a direct stakeholder. Here the organization points to an obvious conflict of interest, and I cannot see that this was specifically considered in the Committee. I have not been aware of it. This, they say here, may invalidate the assessment results of applications and the same value, although projects with ownership in the Technical Development Fund do not promote competition with others. Only the fact that Technical Development Fund competes with other candidates for the progress of projects invalidates all the evaluations of the Technical Development Fund. It is quite interesting that people do not focus their attention on this to a greater degree. It is entirely tailored to the needs of the college community, large business. I think it's obvious, you see it. There is no provision for a specific part of the budget to be given to individuals with early tasks. It is often an extremely important group, and it appears that pioneers in the area are the pioneers, and innovations have to compete with big companies and government scholarships. It appears that all power, the largest public funds in this area, is to be hidden by a small group of big stakeholders and smaller groups, such as the interests of the pioneers and intelligent people, has been avoided. The Scientific and Technical Council is increasingly expected to direct the Management Board of Technical Development Funds and continue to assume that the Agency of pioneers and inventors will not get access to the process that is crucial to the fulfillment of the new projects of individual intellectual minds. I've had this conversation before. I've been through it in the 1st. This case, the importance of supporting the organization of intelligent people, these smaller sources. I'm sorry, but I've spoken for a deaf ear to a innovation minister in this regard. It is of interest, as noted by the Conspiracy Corporation, that the minister of the seminary receives a little consideration. It is said that this important group that counts, that I think, on the fourth hundred members has been avoided. The budget has repeatedly pointed out that there are certain problems in the legislation and implementation of the innovation system, which interferes with the development of innovations, and then sliding in their comments that the budget has been systematically kept away from all involvements in governments, committees, and governments in controlling the affairs of the support environment. It is, of course, abnormal, and here it is said that professional and innovation ministers, as it is said here, have acted hard against the intellectuals and pioneers of this subject, and have taken a firm stand by prejudice. Now it's the highest. A minister not here to answer for this, but this is shown in the discussion of these parties and, of course, needs a response on the part of a minister. They mention e.g. a command in the operating group, in which this group has been avoided, to shape a recent innovation policy, that it is actually contrary to funding to this group. I'd like to state, though, that a financial committee gave a special scholarship of 5 million. K. to these organizations, and I want to thank the head of the Committee for taking good care of this business, it was very important because this organization has not been supported for a long time. But there is also concern. Ministers should not show sufficient interest in this group; this is even now what counts when we look at innovations; these are pioneers; individuals; they are the singles who promote their ideas; they need support to promote them; ideas that can become big projects; they can create a number of jobs, etc. These people are to be received kindly and to try to help as much as possible, but not excluded in this process. When considering innovation policy, etc. are of great importance to the viewpoints of these individuals. In other words, it is important for government policies to support targeted development in new-born areas and to promote the growth of sceptical and innovation companies, as well as to ensure that in Iceland there is access to capitals that are specialised for such activities. It is good to increase the number of funds that pioneers can seek if those with wide vision and not all the eggs in the same basket, as in fact with a innovation fund in the year 2000 when the so - called technical booths exploded. What may be the most missing for pioneers at an early stage is immune capital and that each project will be assessed and invested as long as it takes everything it takes for a prototype to prove itself. It does not mean to provide funding for a three - year job if the project is large and extensive, seeing that it does not run out in such a short time. One must have a measure of patience and look for ways that the project can eventually become good and create jobs, and a good idea becomes realized in a way that underlies the number of families who work for it. We know that large companies have developed ideas for few people and even monotonous ones. There are too many tasks left out in the middle of nowhere, so to speak. These are tasks that need this patient financial support and more time to prove themselves, and they need to be kept tight of their assignments. Clearly, all are real and efficient support for new creations of the good, and it is of great importance that the funds are useful to innovation. New birth is not another type of banking system where there is rapid recovery. It is the quality of patience that matters most. It has, for example. has been a problem with the New World Fund of employment that this fast - to - date profit has been done, not the risk - making process. As such, e.g. Early development projects have been excluded from his assistance. At first glance, it seems to me that this fund is of little value to those who are listed at the early stage of innovation. Of course, in the year we are, it is wise for governments to add money to innovation, and we in the Middle Ages have certainly supported and suggested it. On the other hand, it seems that the most necessary steps are to be taken by this same channel in the Development Fund. There is something that would have had to do much better if it were wise. Had, for example. it is not wise to promote other funds that work alongside the Technical Development Fund, e.g. Power fund? Despite the many benefits of technological development, it is always unfortunate when an institution has everything to say about who is patiently developing a lifeline on these topics and who is not already involved in the important issues we address here. At the end, because the time is now running out, I also came across the topic of Government Review. According to Article 1. Section 6. law on private enterprises requires a statement made by a legal accountant to include an established contract when money is paid with value other than cash. The bill we discuss here requires that this law be excluded from this law on private societies, but it does not contain an explanation for that exception. It is thus assumed that a stately statement does not have to be agreed with an established agreement. This is in the opinion of the State Reconnaissance, especially in view of the provision for temporary use in IV. and Chapter V for specific arrangements on the property of the New World Translation Centres. I think it's important to have this in mind. That's what I think there's a lot on these matters that we need to be more settled on. [[The president calls.]] In particular, I am concerned with how this small group, the design of intelligent men and women, is excluded from the policies needed in this series of issues. I hope it gets better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u24	Madam President. At the beginning of 2020, the government's head of travel, industrial, and innovation announced their plans to destroy Iceland's New Creation Centre. In the past year, it has been about completing almost all the stated targets on reform, simplicity, and cost reduction. Madam President. We're here with a controversial bill in our hands. It's actually about responding to the Minister's decision from the beginning of 2020 to shut down Iceland's New Creation Center and establish the Technical Environment of Iceland. There is quite a big change in support of innovation in Iceland. The midpoint should be laid down, the central point that has carried the core weight and the primary responsibility for supporting Icelandic pioneers since the creation center was founded in 2007, 14 years ago. In order to account for the history of the case, Madam President, there was an open cover for ten days, and in those days, there were 45 reports from 39 sources; from individuals, universities, institutions, rural communities, and interest groups. The vast majority of the items were negative toward the bill and welded, and they made many serious comments to its content and content. Among them were Iceland's Scientific Society, Iceland's Aeronautics Association, the Bank of Design, the National Institute of Design, Iceland's University of the Arts, National Civilization and Technologies, as well as the personnel of the New Creation Center itself. A greater proportion of the employment network proposed changes in the bill in their opinion, where a minister was proposed to set up a digital innovation precaution for information on the support of innovation, and to ensure that advice in the early stages of innovation will be free and available anywhere in the country. Also, more parts went wrong. The job committee to the off-label private body, the so-called technical facility I mentioned at the outset, should offer all the staff of staff, staff staff staff of the chemical, bio- and energy technologies department and the construction industry's laboratory. The declarations of the majority of the Committee were approved in 2nd. ... wherecontinents, including the one present, retorted their opposition to the bill and criticized the lack of preparation, extractions, goals, vision loss, policy shortage, etc. No changes were made to the employment committee after the 2nd Environment. and here we are. There are a lot of peculiarities in this case, since more than a year after the Minister's declaration was made, on the degradation of Iceland's Development Centres, there is a trend towards the establishment of awelvenium of technical facilities as its research, soil and road technology and construction testing, research in chemical engineering, chemical technology, biomechanics and energy technology, as well as offering services to pioneers in the above areas. In other words, the purpose, extent, position, and staff are totally unchanged from the previous arrangement of Iceland's New World Translation Centres, with the exception of the transfer of chemical analysis to another institution. More than that, people scratch their heads because they have become completely different from their original goals. All this cyclical development over a year in this nuclear innovation in Iceland has resulted in an increasing violation of network networks, the distribution of roles, the re-consuming of services in new places within the system and in small competitive funds with special management, and the expansion of services, the loss of knowledge, and the development network of the public with respect to employment, and the loss and violations. Who, then, is the harvest of this amazing bill? You see, Madam President, as shown here in a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, is not a new creation. This activity and support must be maintained on the part of the public in order to do well. It is disturbing, however, that the circular process that followed the contributions of the bill, and has been followed by the time they have been inside the council, causing the uncertainty and uncertainty experienced by newly formed people during this period of over a year, and much less during the worst economic situation we have experienced since a pandemic, with beautiful words falling down on the importance of innovation, and driving people out of the crisis as something new. Then the formation of innovation is being taken up, and there is uncertainty left. It is, in fact, the most disappointing of all not to find a strong view of the future of innovation in Iceland, when it is both called for and the beautiful speeches and the wonderful promises of a minister and a member of the council indicate that this is the best way out of the Covid code. But both this bill here and the government budget for the next five years do not indicate that. National innovation, support for high - tech innovations and priorities, and reduction of development and flexibility to make public funds grow to the best use. Then, a sad fact is that the wonderful promises are not followed by the bill we discuss here today. The 700 million that the State has contributed to the Management Board of Iceland are relatively small, considering that in the past of the government, annual public expenses have been increased due to increased productions for research and development projects within private companies and contributions to the Kría investment budget. As I have mentioned in the previous talk, it is only natural for private companies to be strengthened to a certain extent. But this support cannot be at the expense of government support to government agencies, public research agencies, as Iceland's New Creation Centre has been. Sadly, that is true. In fact, Madam President, in recent years Iceland has fallen far from the European Union's average power of innovation in public institutions. The purpose, size, position, and setting for staff is totally unchanged from the previous arrangement, but the great vision of the future state of the country, how we're going to do this, is not there. This bill is not equipped to explain how and what role the State, the government, should play when talking about the status of innovation in Iceland. It is a long-relevant and multi-relevant truth, not only here in Iceland but abroad, that the government's support for innovation in first and second phases is essential for this function to grow and prosper. It is therefore surprising to observe the progress of this matter at the council. I was talking about the total cost of research and development in Iceland. Over the years, they increased as a proportion of GDP. But then began the development that we see continuing in this bill, the bill of the Government of Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir, to increase the total cost of research and development to private companies. That journey began in 2013,2015, in the government of the son of Gunnul, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson. As the government's research and development contributions to the university and public institutions increased by nearly half of the time as a share of GDP. What happened then between 2016 and 2018? The contributions continued to decrease. Research and development initiatives decreased across all of the above categories and total expenditures were added to 2% of GDP and the trend continues. The decline continues to be the largest in public institutions, and in 2018 the share of public institutions in research and development expenditures was reduced by about one third in five years. You see, Madam President, by raising contributions to university and public research institutions, the government encourages further research and development activities in the private sector. Compared to the EEA's exchange of research and development expenditures in Europe in 2017, Iceland is shown to be close to the average of the European Union's total budget as a proportion of GDP, while the contribution of public institutions was on average 2.5 times lower in Iceland than in the European Union. In fact, we're having a sort of lack of policy, I'd say, in this case, which is so crucial to us as a creative way out of the economic events that has swept over us here in the past twelve months, which is this sustainable way to the future, this green way we're going to get out of these economic crisiss, by significantly promoting public technical research institutions in innovation and strengthening the management of a public agency that has the role of covering gaps between research and market. The bill has lost its original target and has become something completely different, and the sector, the sector, the staff have been unsurpassed. Today, we are living up to the fact that the modern - day structure environment in Iceland is alluring, vague, and inexplicable. We had an institution that can certainly be criticized and can be revised, see what's going well, see what's worse, streamline-shaped, make the Agency stronger, more efficient. Iceland's innovation centre has not begun its criticism, but let's take out the Agency first, and we'll have some plan to take over, a plan that is, with a clear vision, a clear view, and a focus on exactly what we want in the coming generations, for sustainable growth of the economy and for sustainable growth out of the crisis we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u25	Madam President. We'll discuss two basics together, official support to innovation and technology fund. During the past three years, contributions to innovation and research funds have grown tremendously, by 70%, and especially if you look to a technology fund that has received 2 billion. Whatever it is. Hence, a candidate entered the last talk did not fall victim to information on a large increase in this sector during the reign of this government. In fact, the government has put great emphasis on strengthening and strengthening innovation and raising the funds needed to build on these products, whether in food production, in the technical sector, in tourism, or in other products of innovation. New creations are multiplicity-based and are designed not only for the field of technology but for the entire sector of industry. This issue came into the job committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and requested review of technical sites, budgets, and revenues. The composition of the income of ELO is expected to change, and in the years, one third of earners will be passed through a government service contract, one third of the incomes of national and national income will be strengthened, and one third of the earnings of employment services. We had visitors review it and representatives from the Ministry, and they also discussed construction research and how to ensure continuous research, maintain the compatibility necessary. It is established in the bill that they will be assured for the next two years until the facilities needed to be built up and that it will be ready in 2022. There was also a discussion in the Committee between 2 and 3. ... that, while the matter was being treated at the council, a resolution by the travel, industrial and innovation minister was signed on behalf of this uncivilized Society, the technical facility, at the head of the University of Iceland and the head of the University of Reykjavík, i.e. a declaration of the cooperation of technical places and the colleges hiding, including... In that the university puts forward the equipment they share with the predecessor of a technology facility, i.e. A new creation center, and that it enters a technical facility. As we know, on July 1, 2021, the bill goes into effect. Thus, the year was pushed forward to prepare the most for all involved, staff, and structural research and other activities. A great deal of consultation has been made with the members of the New World Translation Center today. A large proportion of them continue to work in this field, and the changes have been guaranteed. I'd like to introduce only new ones, because the subject has been discussed far and wide, but much good work was being done on the committee's team to look to the reports received and make changes that might seem to improve the bill further. This includes a novelty, electronic innovation puzzle, where general counseling and answers will be provided to common and specific questions and will ensure that pioneers have free access to that advice at first level, financed by the Ministry, and will then be specified in the Regulation. I think this is very important to ensure the availability of those who are taking their first steps, and with this digital innovation, we are moving forward into the digital world into which we are all drifting. It also ensures a wide range of bioavailabilitys throughout the country, whether smaller settlements, bynes, or wherever they are, that such support and counselling and access that may not have been present today, as representatives of the New World Center have been in few countries only. They're also talking about integrating this whole structure plan, and I think that's a good addition to securing it. We also came into these researchs, that they will be assured until they will have to be built up under a technical site and good consultations and cooperation with professionals who have worked there. Technology site takes on an important task, making good use of the knowledge and human resources that have been at the Creation Center, but technology is still not a research institution but a platform to support technology and technology development. Thus, in contrast with the New Creation Centre, there will be an institution with emphasis, not on its own research projects, but primarily on technological development in cooperation with the university and the job life and the field for pioneers and wands that are getting ahead of themselves in advanced technology. You may be shocked, everyone is afraid of change when it comes to institutions that have been active for a long time. But I think it's always good to consider the possibility of stepping up things so that they can benefit from the work they are supposed to do without losing the human resources and knowledge that has been built up in years. I believe that's been working on it. These are projects that have been working on for many months to try to do the best. The changes that have been made, both by the Ministry and by the Committee - in cooperation with the Ministry and the trades involved and with the highest knowledge of the New Creation Centres have been there for a long time - have, in my opinion, returned good additionals to the bill. They've got things that weren't legalized before, e.g. The Fab Lab Lab builders have been registered and protected in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture. This innovation theory is to ensure construction research, provide suitable staff for the changes, and other things certainly could be mentioned. However, the changes that have been made are essentially in harmony with the original design. Building tests will be conducted in a technical site, and they will be funded by special donations in consultation with the Department of Social Affairs. Building and operating agencies and the Road Types have published that construction plants should be carried out by a functioning environment and that testing is to be intensified. The preparation of the scientific tests in this country is being done, both for construction products and for environmental monitoring services. This facility will be founded on the basis of chemical, bio, and energy technology, the construction industry, and the establishment of the Management Board of Technologies. Support for innovations in the country has increased, including ... witha fundofnewborns for Loa's establishment. Already there have been over 200 applications in the fund, which were introduced in February. I think it's evidence that there's a lot of growth in innovation in the country. The Ministry has hired two employees with a position in the country to support national innovation. A contract with eight digital carpenters around the country is being made to support the rural and innovation of the country. In these contracts there is an increasing budget and a clearer contribution to the work. All of this is so far along the road, and I have no doubt that those who have spoken before, away from the black voices, will want the newest things in the country. That's what I and others are doing. People are always taking some kind of risk in life at all changes, but I think that these changes are put in the mind of strengthening and strengthening new things, both public and commercial, in general, as well as the availability of public and pioneers, at initial and further levels, to promote and strengthen and develop sectoral diversity. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u26	V.E.G. President. I didn't mean to participate in this discussion, but the last speaker pushed me into the puzzle. I suddenly saw a new circle in this matter, and he is aware that this reveals how strange the government is now. It's kind of weird when it happened. A gentleman in the left green comes on a talk chair, and he speaks of taking risks in life as he joins in putting down a government agency that has been relatively indiscreet and that is greatly useful and transforms it into a private society. I must say, Madam President, that it is different from me before. Perhaps this has become some rule between the government parties, that left greens are involved in bringing down a well-funded government agency and acting in a private community, while the independent party looks at the health system that is more and more swinging toward Marxist ideism every day. Initially this government was proposed to have broad appeals, but time and again it has been discovered, including In this matter, that men are constantly finding some of the elements that the different powers of government can come together, that the rider will not move in or out of service, and will be taken into account by three ministers. In short, this is the content of the present government. I've been giving talks on this matter in all three discussions. I think I was one of the few who spoke up in 1st. From the beginning it was obvious that at the time this bill was submitted, at first it had not been consulted with one or anyone. It was quite clear that all the good advice that workers who had been there for decades were being offered. It was true with these employees that they actually got a wet rag in the face from the government. It's almost certain, and that I know because I've heard some of these people, that we're amazed at such things as great manpower, great knowledge, and a lot of experience. As I said to both debates, I believe this decision must have been made in a recess at the Independence Party meeting. You have had some list of institutions and black brushes, and you have crossed out of the list, and you have entered a servile with the falcon in the corner, saying: These institutions are going to lay down and show the people how liberal and progressive this class is. This type is also referred to as being less expensive. I think I asked that in both discussions, and I think my associates asked about it in time. The employment board, how much of the private part of the company that is to be owned by the state, should be. No answer has been received, Madam President. I suggested at some point that it may be possible that if people are going to move in with slippers or something like that, they're going to start a private stock with minimal altitude, 500,000 bucks. But I have suspected that the millions of people who are supposed to be from this type will disappear when the costs for the establishment of the private society have been measured and weighed, and the costs of bringing about a well - handled project, into an institution that does not have any memory and knowledge available in the old Creation Center. That's where I'm talking about the laboratory of the construction industry that's been working for decades. In other words, this experience is to be torn up with roots and toss it here and there; one bite goes into the private partner, another into the House and Mansition Institute, etc. This is not a practice, Madam President, and it expresses an unusually determined willingness to act this way despite all warnings. Hv. A senator of the left green called it numbers at this point, because we're not brave enough to start a private partner like VG. I may have a suggestion for this fine senator of VG. I'm willing to join her in a private partnership that would help shorten a waiting list in the health system, I'm up to it, I'll just do it here, and now that it can start work tomorrow. But I think the Independence Party would now choke it at birth, and for now for four years it has been moving the health system in the Marxic Ocean, as I said earlier. But the main thing is that despite all the warning at first, despite what the workers tried to say before their voices were choked, despite the warnings of the committee and in spite of the rumors, they did not listen, nothing was done. Madam President. I always remember when I know - and it's happened several times in my short career here at the council - when I find it, when I hear it all over in the reviews and in visitors who have warnings, that the council is making a mistake by making certain issues and making them stressful. You can't be involved, Madam President, even if we're classified as members of a member society that doesn't want to enter into a private stock with a VG. Well, that's just gonna be the case. We're just not forward enough, and we want to see to all eight before we take part in breaking down a government agency that has a good reputation and scattering the human resources, employees with decades of experience. We just don't exist for it. I'll agree with it anywhere that I'm a tempo if my attitude toward this evil case means it. I'll just take it that I'm old-fashioned because I don't want to start a private partner with a VG. It's just to be accepted here and now. It must also admit that the VG is taking longer on the private campaign and the road than I, except for the natural health issues that continue to become Marxist. From all sides of the world, this matter is bad. From all sides of sight, this issue is so growing that it cannot be supported. From all sides of the earth behold, everywhere and everywhere, how this matter is made. It is made up of the frightening ideas found in this government. This is not the only case in which the nation will eventually be sullied by the devastating events of its time. We'll see about everything. But that's what's being spent, unfortunately, even the hottest men, that I thought, would come up here and mock members of the Asians because they don't want to start a private partner with a VG. It will just have to be, and unfortunately, I don't see how these mistakes can be corrected. Neither is it seen in this matter; failures that will be made with this agreement will not be so easily corrected. It has been claimed, and speaking from experience, since we were talking about the financial side of the previous, that a private society will not similarly go along with European donors, for example, with a government agency. I happen to be working on it for a while in my previous life trying to get Iceland into the European Union, i.e. between 9 and 5, but not for another time. It was obvious that, in dealing with emissary committees that are here, people seemed to, though much of that relationship may be said, to be quite well acquainted with in accounting. They seemed to make reasonable demands that the funds provided by the European Union be followed closely, that they go to the right places, etc. There were certain requirements and methods to bring it to me, and they have done all the time this case has been taking place here, that the European Union's funding to this category will not become the same to a private society as to a government agency for the reasons I traced earlier. Then comes the question: Will the contributions for innovation be lower than that for a predictable future, or will the government itself contribute funds to this group? If that's the case, I'm going to ask you again, what will happen to the savings of this adjustment, Madam President? So I have to ask you one more question, and really I should insist that this matter is not a vote until the answer to the question is known, how much of the private part-of-part enterprise proposed by the VG should be. Should there be 500,000 or should there be as many millions and be saved by scattering the Bureau as here with this predictable disastrous result? Madam President. Just at that time when we need innovation, like never before, everywhere - I wrote five or six long dogs a year ago, twelve months ago, about what we should do to prepare for what happened 18 months ago, i.e. in the middle of this year, when we saw beyond the epidemic we were dealing with, that we would be ready to respond, with plans for what we were going to do to increase, for example. export income. I'm sure in order to get us out of the situation we're looking for at the end, we'll have to increase the production of exports in order to increase the money money money money money money to help us pay off the debt of the state that has developed during the period of the epidemic, unless the Independence Party is going to raise taxes over the next few years, so it can be done. There will be no alternative to this problem. True, there is a way of getting together in government, obviously somewhere, but now we need innovation and support of innovation as never before. The government's answer to the appeal is to shut down the Creation Center. How sad can this be, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u27	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct child law, No. 76/2003, with subsequent changes, of the child's residence. The case was referred to the Committee after 2rd. and has again been discussed by the committee. The bill suggests that the law should be translated into force on January 1, 2022. The report on the bill shows that it is expected that the time will be further over the regulations of law and regulations in the fields under other departments and that the need for changes will be considered in the context of the changing child's living quarters and other issues depending on events. The committee feels that it is important that the contents of this report be implemented on new regulations temporarily in the children's law itself. With the provisional agreement, it will be ensured that the change in law and regulations will be made that will result in the legalization of the switch to residence before the law takes effect on January 1, 2022. In particular, the Commission believes that there is a topic area under the Department of Social Affairs, Health Ministry and Economic Affairs. However, it will result from the agreed bill that the need for such changes, as appropriate, must also be determined by another Ministry. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st At 31. And a new branch shall be added, saying, The new statutes shall be added for a season, saying, Three personnel, one at the Department of Social Affairs, one by the Department of Health and the third by the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, should be appointed to recommend how to change the laws and regulations that hear their sub-sidiary and to evaluate the need for change in regard to the switch between the child's residence and the other aspects according to the incident. Each working group provided its results no later than October 1, 2021. According to the incident, a minister in each Ministry suggests a bill based on results of the relevant staff group no later than November 1, 2021. 2. At 32. And a new proverb shall be added, saying, Let the B-Javes find english. When value is reached. Páll Magnússon and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir were away from the case but signed this opinion on 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under these writings, Páll Magnússon, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Thorsson, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Ginnisdótttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Olga Margrét Cilia, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsóttir, Árnadóttir Thornadótir, Sabídur Gunlugadóttir, and Þögstein Sæmundsson with a warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u28	A respectable president. I bring an opinion of a change to the bill for a song about changing the law on the State Radio, a public curator, No. 23/2013. The objective of the bill is to apply specific guidelines for information giving to the State Radio as was planned by the legislatator, but the legislation had failed at the 141th legislature. It is continued that a decision-making committee on information matters can resolve any conflict that occurs with the interpretation of Article 1. The bill. Despite changes in the approval of the State Radio, it is thought that this law needs to be adjusted and that the approvals of the Kingdom News are inadequate. A premeditated adjustment was presented with the Government Radio Management Board in connection with a change in the approved society. A General Department of Education and Education Committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Presidency, the National Journal Society of Iceland, and the Federal Protection. Two narratives were received from the National Journal Society of Iceland and Perconte Protection. According to 1st mg. b-joins 1. Further, the bill is allowed to inform us about the work being done by the Supreme Rulers, including reminders and evasives, for no more than four years have passed since the decision taken. A paper with the bill shows that rich public interest is not due to a lack of reminder made by the director for alcohol consumption compared to the interests of the employee because of being given the opportunity to improve its ways without risking future branding for such behavior. In this connection, it was noted that according to Article 3 of Figure 1. Section 3. Law on Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018, are sensitive personal data including defined as political opinions, religions and principles, health information, drug, alcohol and drug use information and information on sex and sexual orientation. There is no question about it, if there is not a plan to provide information on the presupergence or admonition given by the Supreme Rulers of the State Radio, if the penalty is based on sensitive personal information. In view of the above, the majority of the items are more likely to be texted on 1.mgr. b-joins 1. the bill will be adjusted in line with the content of the report, and thus require that the public's information right does not cover sensitive personal data. The majority suggest changes in the material. In other respects, the greater part contributes to technical changes and is not intended to influence the subject of the bill. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes listed and that I'm not reading them, they're available on panels. 1052. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson was away from the hearing. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir, Ármannsson's son, Olga Margrét Cilia, and Steinunn Árnadóttir, Aarnadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u29	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalize the change of various laws to simplify a rule of work. The bill suggests changes in various laws that aim to eliminate unnecessary license divisions, reduce market barriers, and promote healthy competition. The bill is divided physically in eight chapters where there are changes in various laws, including Rules on Accounting No. 145/1994 law on the New World Fund of industry No. 61/1997, real estate law, and no. 70/2015, budget No. 50/2000, Author's Code No. 73/1972, State Funds No. 88/1191, and evaporation legal requirements for business work No. 28/1998 and fix a man's right to call himself business experts and economists, which are no. 27/1981. The review of the committee may have been primarily related to two aspects, one of the holding of real estates and the other to a test for acceptance of books. Two. 7. Law on real estate and orders, No. 70/2015, the requirement for a real estate salesman to be practiced in the name of a social company is that a legitimate real estate agent has a direct share in it. The U.S. Governing Body, which issued a review, appeared before the committee, urging that the above conditions be removed. Based on the OECD competitive assessment, there is a review of improvements to reduce the competitive inhibition of tourism and construction. An article with the bill shows that there was a basis for an exposé. The greater part of the report shows that the land's real estate arrangements differ much from those in the controlled countries and those in other countries, as reported in the OECD report. The OECD report encourages review of the rules for possession of real estate goods provided that other sources, and less limited, are provided to ensure consumer interests and protect against interest issues. The majority encourages the Ministry to work on the extra outlets in this area. The bill suggests a test for the acceptance of books that shall be canceled by the Minister. The original purpose of the books was to increase the quality of accounts and tax returns with increased knowledge in those areas. As a result, a minister was assigned to represent a study and a test in recognition of books, which was adopted in the law of No. 29/1997 for the conversion of 145/1994, by accounting. The project at the Ministry of Economic Affairs was the first for some time, but then it was moved to the Ministry of Economic and Business and is now at the Department of Employment and Development. Since the study of books has become widely recognized as an important link in the chain of accounts, it is no longer considered necessary for a minister to share in granting this recognition and for special testing. The first step in this process was by adjustment in 2011 when a minister's duty to the end of a course was removed. It is estimated that it is time to take the next step and is suggested that the Minister's acceptance be canceled and that the work name be protected accordingly canceled. The majority of the Committee proposes one adjustment form in terms of a book recognition test. The review of the judicial hearings of approved books points out that in 8 mg. Section 5. Regulations on recognition of books, No. 649/2019, all components should be dated within 3 years of the date of the oldest test. Those who began the first phase of the fall 2020 may have had the expectations of completing the final part of the fall 2023, and after an incident recording test in the spring of 2024. Therefore, suggest that the one it votes to be able to complete the tests in recognition of books by April 1, 2024. Sets more parts to correct this, and the law is added to the accounting law. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the change presented in the committee opinion. Under the committee, Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, Brubbur Níelsson's guide, Jóldur Valdimarsson, Bordi Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u30	V.E.G. President. The government appointed a team of key authorities in the field of tax research, in the area of the district, both in tax law and in other economic violations, to respond to the findings of the European Court of Human Rights to the fact that double punishments would not be used in an investigation and the prosecution of tax lawlessness. The bill is the product of this group's work, which was primarily to respond to the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. The main points of this bill, of course, are that the office of the head of the tax will be submitted and its work will be brought to the government tax manager's office. There will be a special unit within the tax, which is the institution controlled by and supervised by the head of the head of the tax, where there will be an investigation of tax laws and fines due to such offenses. The isolation controls the government tax manager, the tax investigator, making sure that the tax investigator maintains his independence in an investigation of tax laws and fines. The budget is also expected to be at the head of the government, but the professional activities of the unit will be directed by the head of the tax. There is no evidence to suggest any change to the authority that the tax investigator has on the current tax law for the study. He keeps them unchanged, depending on the changes presented here. With the proposal to unite under one institution all tax control and tax fraud research, the shape of such rules will be simpler and the system more efficient, where the head of the head of the tax will be in doubt at any given moment. In addition, the taxation criteria should be developed to determine when a matter should be given a special tax examination. The conversion of taxes's sources is not aimed at using sufficiency laws, such as by late forwards, and due to their return to the stock markets and the pay label. There is a clear understanding of the administrative issues that are supplied within the tax system and of the more serious cases that are being treated according to the publication of the district attorney's orders on the basis of Article 21. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008. The investigation and decision of fines due to tax charges will be made in the hands of an tax investigator when they do not fall under the order of the district attorney. This suggests that the head tax committee does not have guilty authority in larger cases. Rather, the commission will be in the role of an independent panel taking charge of a tax investigator's decision to fines. Still, the court's route stands open and can be seen by taxpayers as a result of the pressures of fines and fines under courts. According to the above, the attorney general is ordered on the basis of the criminal treatment of which cases should be referred to. This includes evaluations of which fractures are considered to be major in the sense of 262. g. General penalties, No. 19/110, to be directly referred to and charged. Then, in the bill, the investigation of the crimes due to tax law is taking place under the charge of an accused. It is normal to hide the office of the district attorney investigation of such cases where a criminal investigation needs to be directed by the police, since police authority must be exercised by the investigator. It is difficult to transfer the change to the tax investigator's authority beyond what has already been said about the legal status of those who were tested by the local tax investigator. The bill is not intended to contribute to the development of expertise in the tax fractions of two places, i.e. ... withinthe taxandthepolice of the police department. The aim is for a greater proportion of cases to be solved within the tax system, with only larger and more serious cases being taken to the police and subject to charges. Furthermore, the change is suggested that if the district attorney feels that it is not proper to continue the case or not, he can return a case to the tax authorities. In such a case, the matter may end within the tax system, possibly with the possibility of stress, but not with a concomitant guilt decision. Since a local district attorney can prioritize a study, a reimbursement to the tax system will be reimbursed for an investigation of tax fractures. This should lead to more efficient use of human resources in other systems research. In addition, the rules of the bill make sure that there is no other place to be done within the tax system that could corrupt the criminal investigation and avoid major tax reimbursement within the tax system requiring repeated research. It is suggested that if a federal district attorney's case is investigated, this will lead to re-evaluation of taxes without any effort within the tax system. No matter what the outcome of the matter may be, in court cases, in a penalties, or in justification. At the same time, an examination of the tax status of the district attorney will lead to re-evaluation of taxes without pressure. If a case is later canceled by the office, where an investigation is not likely to lead to conviction, this could possibly result in stress along with a reevaluation of taxes. It is important that the local district attorney informs in all cases about the results of the study in order to re-evaluate and that further regulations will be agreed in the Regulation on the implementation of tax control and tax research. It is suggested that the application of pressures along with the decision of the fine be excluded. As the law of No. 33/2020. This suggests that the law will be permanently established, but with more specific adjustments that will result from the bill's proposals. If the bill is to be legalized, further rules must also be set in the regulation on the implementation of tax control and tax research, taking into account the change in the office of the government's tax investigator and instead of the national unity within the tax, as well as the change in tax law treatments that result from the bill. This bill was discussed in the Committee, and not all agree to cancel the office of the government's current tax investigator. However, a greater estimate of the tax pools and the tax investigator's integration is aimed at strengthening tax control, tax research and ensuring that treatment is in line with the findings of the European Court of Human Rights on a double punishment. This is done in a practical way. This will be in place of a more assured case treatment, i.e. so that the cases within the government, within the tax system, are resolved there and if it is done by pressures or fines, the case will finally end with the charges involved. However, in the case of serious cases, which may be up to 262 st. general penal law, i.e. large tax fractions associated, of course, with other such offenses as money frauds, etc., will immediately take such a criminal investigation. Here are certain conditions in my mind, and most of the others I think, very desirable. Still, there is no basis for the tax to act on his investigation, doing so well with his research department called the head of the office and is independent of his work. It will only be seen very soon if it is possible to complete it within the administration, within the tax. If the case is not wrong, there is no progress, no intention, not intent on subversive tax or fraud, a gross, high - sum sums of money, then it is completed within the judiciary with a charge, not in the administration. This is very normal. This is logical and has no effect on the worse, unless less, the government's work on the statement. The purpose of the tax authority is to ensure the proper application of the product. To do so, of course, it needs to be observed, with the possibility of examining a matter. This bill is absolutely guaranteed and more than that. It is highly desirable in fact, and it is clearly in line with the opinions of the experts who came before the committee, the experts in the work group who wrote the bill, that this arrangement is lost to strengthen tax control, strengthen research, and prevent double-traced, repeated research. The difference is clear, and where there is a doubt, the district attorney decides where the matter should be. It won't be clearer to me. It's a matter of great improvement. It is important that there is the possibility of improving space to end smaller cases of the administrative level itself. It is normal that the government taxpayer should be concerned with ordering which offenses to take into account on the legal basis of the criminal treatment taking into account the objective that most cases will be completed within the tax system. It is by far the most natural time for them to end there. Therefore, when it is thought that the case should continue to be conducted by a district attorney, it must be predictable and clear and it is important that the decision, as far as possible, be made on the basis of a direct investigation in order to avoid double treatment, which this case is all about. It's not just about the system, it's also about those who are being tested, or that they take less time than the standard has been. The system is remarkably hovered now, and we have been confronted with a long case, yet we have gone to the prosecution for a special investigation after fines or laws have been applied to the administrative level. This was the case, that it was actually being punished in a double way. I think we can all agree that such treatment cannot be offered to the citizens, and that is why it was very timely and was long before the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights agreed that we needed to correct this, to have more effective tax analysis, more selective, so that we can identify the respective roles. I believe with this bill we've got it. I believe that this has been quite a success and that it will be a great improvement in the future. There may be some tremor like this in the beginning when men bring a new system into this, but I don't see anything in this case that can't be solved in a very short time, pinch to the very fast. I have high hopes that a tax investigation, IRS, will make a great improvement if and when this bill becomes legal. The Committee brought up a significant debate that is currently being conducted using some form of paramours at the administrative level, but they are being treated by the local district attorney, what happens to them. Clearly, the issues that are clearly heard under the cases mentioned in the Court of Human Rights have either been canceled or will be resolved. There may now be some disagreement on some of these matters, but more of the committee thought that it would not be right for the legislature to decide that all the cases that have been used by some kind of administrative penalty will be automatically canceled. It is not proper to do so by law. Rather, we must be confident that the charge of this matter ensures that no charge or court will guarantee that if such cases are contrary to this decision by the European Court of Human Rights, they will not be convicted. But it is not really acceptable for the lawgiver to take directly into law laws and say that all of these matters should be resolved. So this did not result, but it did not. I would point out that this bill is intended to be met by the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. Among the initiatives in the bill, it is to rule out pressures with administrative guiltys or tax lawbreakers as well as additional suggestions given here by the bill to further explain the process of research following tax laws that are to help make the system more transparent and efficient. In an effort to strengthen the safety of individuals in an effort to investigate taxes, it is especially considered a shortening period of therapy and simple treatments. I think this is a purpose that we can all be very happy with. It is important that we be able to shorten the treatment period and simplify it, that we can make sure things aren't in two places at once. That's what the bill is about. I think I can quite say that there was a great harmony in general among the experts who gave reviews, some of whom have worked in this system more and less all their careers. They all agree that this matter is a great improvement. However, if I recall correctly, criticism came from the tax investigator involved in this working group, making that office available to the tax manager. I disagree with that, and I really think it's completely out of the question that the prosecution even goes to the head of the IRS. That's what I think is completely ridiculous. I wouldn't pass any opinion. I warn against all such ideas. Mr. President. I reiterate that there was quite some solidarity, at least in the greater part. I may not have felt a lot of disagreement in my parts except for what I call a smaller point, but there is still only more of what is involved in this committee party. That's why. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, chief of the satraps, Brumur the son of Níelsson, Britti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Ingi the son of Pétursson. I suppose those who disagree have already asked for an answer, and I am very happy to be able to discuss this. I think I know what she'll be like, but I'm fine. There's a slight change proposal here, and I just refer to the committee's opinion, so I can't wait to get an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u31	Mr. President. This bill is about two things. On the one hand, it is the opinion of the double punishment, which is an agreement. However, it is about an established arrangement that has nothing to do with the double punishment. It can be solved in another way. This bill is, in my opinion, a misdemeanor. I want it brought back to the government for various reasons, including Because there is much uncertainty about responsibilities. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he cannot agree with me that when reading the bill, questions arise as to whether the procedure is to disappear from the current system where a personal study is conducted by the tax investigator and to hide it from the local district attorney, or to whether the investigation is intended for further investigation by the tax investigator rather than by the government or by a request of the district attorney when investigating larger issues. What should this arrangement be like? I'd like to ask who, at the same time. For the greater part, a member of the committee's head and guide on whether a matter is large and needs to go from house to house. What are some of these criteria? A senator and a major part of it imagine that they will be used to sort matters into important and smaller matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u32	V.E.G. President. I don't agree that there's some sort of inexplicability of responsibility. Of course, these are the ones the district attorney is evaluating and evaluated, and is doing so every day, evaluating whether a case is less than 262 C.E. a general penal law. If he doesn't count it, and it's assumed that he appreciates it, then the case can be concluded by legal penalties at administrative level by fines or pressures. Well, that's not the focus. That is actually done today, except that the tax and the district attorney were doing some sort of work and then was given a hearing. Then there was some guilt or burden with the tax that no one knew of, or if they knew it, they changed nothing. Still, this was judged in the light of a serious offense and was taken at once despite punishment. This is being prevented and it is very important. I don't see a problem with reference. This makes the district attorney every day, evaluating whether or not there is such a investigation. If he does not, he will simply assume that the case will end and direct it to the tax authorities. To me, this is quite amazingly clear, as all experts showed, there were no worries about this. Of course, there are debates about when a case is considered to be major and should be prosecuted, and 262 can be applied. Gr., but in the end, there are always courts who appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u33	Mr. President. As can be read in the reviews, not everyone agreed that there was a great clearly involved. I think that's what we're talking about. Also, a senator is not completely clear as to how all of this is going to work. If the reference is e.g. This may be the case, as noted by many committee meetings when discussing this matter, that it may appear at the outset that the amount of the case is small and small, but a further investigation reveals that the matter is large. And it can be vice versa. What does it look like? A senator with this, don't you think it'll offer some kind of ring-up between the tax and the district attorney on too many cases? I'd like to ask who, too. Because he mentioned it in his earlier talk so important that it would be so important to see that there is no special knowledge in this field in two places: How can you drive? A senator saw the need not to, by means of this arrangement, that special knowledge must be in two places? Now, all of this is in one hand, large and small cases passed through the government's tax investigator, but with this bill, it is somehow rounded in a very vague way. And as soon as it comes down to changing it somehow between the district attorney and the taximament, it is not to be built up by expertise in two places. [[The president calls.]] Wait a minute. A senator explaining this in short, not having much time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u34	V.E.G. President. Yes, of course there's expertise in two places if the bill becomes legal, but the expertise is in three places now; in the tax investigator and the district attorney, the prosecution. It is simply being done as in so many other matters, i.e. Within the administration, there is a legal warrant. We see this in competitive affairs, we see it in finance, we see it in various institutions. If things aren't so reasonable that they're ending there, they're sent to the police and the prosecution. The same thing is being done here. It is much easier for me to do so in this way and not to be vague. The head of the tax decides whether the matter is at that time that it can be completed within the administration, within the tax, or if the charges need to be taken. It's his job to appreciate it. It presents not necessarily a sum of money but mainly a point of resolve or a legal condition as such. Most of the offenses are inaccurate, not even intent, and stress - it's just a lack of self - control. Sometimes nothing is done because there are proper explanations. On the other hand, when cases are being arranged with various forms of fifferii, the amount of money that is not high may be highly criminal. So I think it's mainly the criminal condition that counts there and the right person to appreciate it is, of course, the governor of state tax. We'd be going back to an empty mess in my mind if the prosecution should be moved to the tax investigator's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u35	Mr. President. I have not yet come to realize the chief purpose of the government on this matter. The point is to simplify the system, but I'm no better than to weaken the office of the tax investigator by making the important office, which has been called after years to be promoted and granted further authority, to a department within the governor of the tax. Only about bringing prosecution to the head of the IRS, that's why. paritaprevir The wearer of the son of Níelsson is found utterly absurd, as it were, to be known for example. Now at the police department in my criminal affairs. The more large are the members of a district attorney who makes a decision on the charges but does not have a deep investigation of all the cases from the beginning to the finish but examines what has been done and makes a decision on charges. I don't understand why it's not that way that has been called after years in the office, rather to promote an tax investigator, the tax investigator is authorized to issue a charge, but in the case of a huge case, they are sent to the district attorney to make a decision on charges. I feel like this is just taking this important office that we've been trying to build for years and just drive it into a drawer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u36	V.E.G. President. It's the same speech that I heard from the United States when it was supposed to be united by the SEC and the Secret Bank, exactly the same speech: the surveillance is being weakened. Of course, the monitoring is not being restricted. It's being strengthened. For this reason, I would like to read from the speech of the bank manager with the permission of the president: It is now an institution responsible for financial stability and has information on the financial system and the development of systematic risks within it. A much clearer authority to intervene in the course of events is the unassailed Navy. The bank now has the power to influence the behavior of financial institutions and market partners for the better. Unfortunately, we still do not have a good translation of the English word ◯proprudence, which combines all the things we want to achieve in the behavior of the policy-makers of a financial market. Perhaps it can be called for "anxious care " and" counsel " - perhaps we need a title contest to get this important message out in a single word? Exactly the same thing we're doing here. We're achieving better monitoring, more efficient surveillance, greater clarity, which case should be considered and which case should not, what can be solved by the administrative level. Why do political institutions have legal agencies that can promote prosecution as well? It's never in general. I know the D.A. wanted prosecution on the grounds of a nation's violation. Of course, that will not happen. The charge and charge are for those they know, not for others. It will never turn out well when government agencies are making accusations and bring a case to court. They can be considered on the basis of their studies to be guilty of violations and repairs. Then they can do so in a judicial way if they disagree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u37	It's the surveillance that we in the United States would like to promote in all areas of society, but somehow, during this term, we have been more concerned with the weakening of all kinds of community surveillance. When we talk about government agencies not being able to handle charges too - why not? The tax investigator himself writes a 11 - page review in which he runs why the government should not take the way in which it wants to go. It's making things less clear. A single check and investigation is being put together. The teeth are being cut from the head of the tax when it comes to the independence of the current department, when it comes to making money, when it comes to recruiting, when it comes to business. An tax examination is inherently different from observation. An tax investigator needs to have his own financial authority, full authority, and to be independent of others, not a small department within the governor of the tax. As I read the review of the tax investigator's account, I find that it is being pulled out of this office instead of responding to the call that has been heard for years; trying to increase it in order to reduce the flow of funds from our common funds so that we can have access here that is solid enough to carry us all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u38	V.E.G. President. I object to the weakness of a check here. It is being done more systematically, making it better, just as the FDA did.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u39	There's nothing...
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u40	Yes, everyone will agree that it was there. Everyone involved in these matters agrees that this is a simple process, an explanation, a more specific procedure. Research and monitoring are not related. When the tax comes up, it looks at it, and we can call it an investigation. Of course, it's just one thing. Then, the issue often needs more opinions and the most progressive, and it is being done within the same office. In particular, though, this case - perhaps all I disagree with - is made up of something called the independence of an tax investigator. These are the tax authorities, and this is one tax that is to be paid the right tax, the correctness of the application. That's what this is about. It is being tried to do so here that it is within the tax, in a clear way done, and in the matters that can be resolved there, and in terms of larger cases under the law of justice. It's so simple. But it is being said that the Independence Party is somehow reducing the quality of surveillance. This is prepared by all the experts involved in these matters to ensure that the research is more specific, clearer, and to ensure that the city's rights are not being served. That's what this is all about. Of course, you can try. People, making it suspicious in this way, but you're not going to do well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u41	Mr. President. The bill includes two changes, as mentioned in previous talks. One is the change due to double punishment, which responds to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. However, significant changes are suggested in the institutional arrangement and treatment of tax fractions. As a result of the double penalty, it is suggested that the temporary regulations on income taxes and the credit laws, which were extended by law No. 140/2020 will be permanent but with certain changes. This is a set of regulations in paragraphs 7 and 14. The bill and the 1st memory support these changes. However, it is obvious that the issues of double punishment have nothing to do with an established arrangement. It is therefore the government's own decision to change an established arrangement with the consequences of the operation of an official tax investigator. How important it is that the Council places heavy emphasis on paying taxes! In his review to the bill Committee, the tax investigator points out that for decades the Council's emphasis was on combating taxes, further tax research, and increasing the independence of the tax investigator has played an important role in improving the demonstration and protective effects of the group. It is important to continue in the same direction with the support and support needed. Even if the changes made in the bill are made but smaller, it is important that the independence of the tax investigator be ensured. Part 1 of a reminder that the benefits of a government's unity with the tax have not been assessed against the benefits of tax analysis on the part of an independent government. Obviously, there is a fundamental difference between the whole case and the case according to whether it is an I.R. or a tax investigation. The first small part of critical of the image's inexplicability and key questions about who should not be answered in a serious matter. Questions arise on whether to disappear from the local programme where an actual investigation will be conducted by the tax investigator and will hide it from the local district attorney or if the investigation is intended to continue for the tax investigator but under the control or at the request of the local district attorney. In order to assess the severity of the event, there is uncertainty about the criteria. If the amount is to be considered, it should be borne in mind that in most cases they will change during investigation. Depending on the nature of an investigation, a case that initially involves low amounts may be large and vice versa. Thus, issues could get in the way of offices with the related double acts, costs, and inefficiency. It is suggested that the decision to determine whether or not an IRS or IRS will be placed in the hands of a taxpayer rather than a tax investigator. An tax investigator points out that these are basic and the basis for the independence that has been built and guaranteed for decades. There is also a limit to the independence of the office, which will depend on the government taxpayer's decision on funding, human resources, and all activities. Also, the governor will appoint an tax investigator, not a minister, as is currently the case. Any offense against the tax law, regardless of their severity, is investigated by the same person, i.e. tax investigator. This ensures that all suspected fractures and fusions are handled in the same manner as the testing and application of study tools. The goal of tax research is twofold. On the one hand, it is a basis for reevaluating taxes and the other. Thus, cooperation takes place on issues involving the tax system and on the other hand, the justice system. It may be that the same events as studies have been carried out in a tax investigation may recur with the local district attorney in another context. It belongs, for example. we need to know when money was considered to have taken place while we're under tax law. The investigation of money is entirely by the district attorney. In Sweden such double action is prevented by providing tax authorities with authorization for the investigation of money. A reduction of 1st points suggests that Sweden will be looked into in this respect. Mr. President. The bill assumes that the significant change from what is now the tax investigator's placing on government fines that will be sullied by the head tax committee. It's suggested that these fines come from a hundred you. K. To 100 million. K. Since taxes are expected to be less than twice as low as a tax amount, the warrant means that it can be applied because of up to 50 million. K. tax evasion. Thus, much fewer cases will be charged. Thus, the severity of offenses and mild penalty of violations against taxes is a significant factor. The reason seems to be that the performance of the prosecution is not sufficient. That argument cannot be enough for such a change. It is also true that the right to remain in possession of property is limited to the punishment of a 262 stylus. a general penal law. Therefore, the number of alleged offenses that exist today will be far less appropriate. As indicated by the tax investigator's review of the bill, the sources that the investigators have provided have a basic basis for their ability to investigate and inform tax collections. Anything that impairs that authority is likely to be less effective. For over 25 years it has regularly been called attention to the need to eliminate the obvious double action in a tax fraud and economic crime study and the publication of the charges in that field, as well as to many of its reports and analyses. The situation in this country is slow and costly, and it is not in favor of the government or the alleged defendants. Moreover, with a long period of treatment, the risk of a legal case that will result in a milder judgment or even acquiesce, as we have seen. According to the tax investigator's records, although the cases from the office are based on the words referred to in general to a regional district attorney's investigation, there is not a general basis for the investigation of the cases in that office. The local district attorney's investigation is generally based on the study conducted by the tax investigator and is described in his report on the relevant issues. This is based on the tax investigator's data collection and the general basis for which the results are generally laid. In an investigation by the district attorney, the defendant is then called in for a hearing on the case. Thus, without a complete repeat investigation, there may be a double reaction. In most cases, the local district attorney appeals in all ways according to the results of an tax investigator's research and is almost always the case with simpler issues. In some cases, the results of an tax investigator may not be charged with all factors, but in a few cases they may be completely resolved because of a lack of a cause for prosecution. An tax investigator is not aware of the corresponding recurrence of studies in other nations. Instead of uniting the office of tax research managers and taxpayer so that an tax investigator will become a unit within the tax, it would be more efficient, considering, in terms of a smaller part, to give prosecution to the tax investigator on the basis of the case. A number of published reports have been published on bringing charges to the head of the tax, including the administrative department's paying attention to the State Marshal's Office since 2006 when the district convention of Economic Crimes was heard under his name. The report includes the following: ... tothe evaluation of the State Review Report that bilocation is involved in these cases, such as reports from both the head of the tax and the police, which prolongs the time of nonessential treatment. According to the same principles of public rights as the police's research, the research of the tax investigator was the same as that of the police. As a result, reports from the head of the tax investigator have the same evidence as police records. Therefore, in view of the Federal Accounting, there is no formal obligation to demand that the defendant be called to report after a case has been referred to the police. In order to prevent this double act and to contribute to a shorter treatment period, it is vital that we create a better integration in the study of serious tax fractures. In terms of 1st, the same views apply today. Project Management of Change and Improvements from 2016 achieves similar results and suggests that study issues will only be used by the head of the tax on charges. An tax investigator should be already in his research, taking care of the legal treatment as appropriate. There is already knowledge about such criminal cases by the tax investigator. Personal protection mentions, e.g. in his decision on December 7, 2010, No. 2010/1092, the tax investigator's study of tax fractures is the value of a police investigation in the first place. The guilt of tax law requires special knowledge and expertise, both in research and in the prosecution. It helps to be efficient that the same person cares for both. Such forms are known in other countries, including Germany. A third report published by the OECD from November 8, 2017, shows that there are very different types of research and tax expenditures based on countries. It may generally be said that they are trying to work together on the other hand with expertise in tax rights and on the effectiveness of charges. As stated earlier, money laundering is often linked with tax fraud and is reported in the financial action group, FAFF, and the government's risk assessment that tax law violations are one of the basics of money disposal. An investigation of money theft is by law in the hands of a district attorney. On the other hand, because of the high level of financial thefts involved in primary violations, it is good to investigate money - evasion due to tax fraud along with the tax fractions involved. The first minor part of the impression that if the criminal investigation becomes uninvolved, it will prevent unnecessary effort and the cost of public and unnecessary weight gain for the defendants. Experience from a recent study of large - scale, complex issues on the table of the embellishment can be considered. In this case, 1st small part is considered to be a bill aimed at the fact that a tax investigator will become a ward within the tax, there is no loss in increasing the effectiveness of these issues. The first part of my study is considered successful when financial and economic ministers order a group of workers who are working at a legal hearing that requires a change in the office of the government tax investigator in order to allow the office to be granted the prosecution and the legal right to the prosecution in the case of its investigation. Therefore, the 1st smaller items suggest that the bill be referred to the government. Under this opinion, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u42	V.E.G. President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. Oddný ItHarðardóttir related to her husband's daughter, who said that the bill involves a lack of authority and the job of a tax investigator. I ask: What sources are being taken from an tax investigator, and how does his work change? Doesn't he have the same strategy as before? Especially is it stated that he is independent of his work within the IRS. What changes? Is it really so that the United States feels normal that all administrative institutions that monitor and study the various categories, whether it is financial watch, competitive observation, etc., will also be committed to prosecution in these matters? Is that the course? I want to know. Is it really that way? And that the D.A.'s gonna get prosecution in the sanctum? And that's how you could count for a long time. No, I think it's a very wrong course, the wrong way. Therefore, I consider this way very sensible, she was long since timely, completely out of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. It has simply been a mistake for us not long ago to correct this situation so that a district attorney is completely separated from the administrations of the administrations to apply penalties after his research and opinions, which are part of their surveillance. That, of course, is the very essence of the matter that we should consider. I'm sure I'm opposed, aren't I? I have 13 minutes. left.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u43	The Senator opposes, and the president keeps his eye on the clock and will direct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u44	This will then be the longest answer to the history of Congress. The question, though, was, What has been the problem with the job and the authority of the tax investigator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u45	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asks about the Union policy and whether it's really that we want it to be, and agree with experts who have recommended that the government's tax investigator receive prosecution, we are now saying that all surveillance agencies should be charged with prosecution. What kind of bullshit is this, Mr. President? Of course it's not like that. We in the Union want to promote tax research, and we want an tax investigator to get more work and more resources to work hard and well out. It's like this, and we know it well, that there's already a double operation in the system, and it needs to be handled. We can do this by giving a prosecution to the court, and this will work more quickly, which would only be good for us as taxpayers but also for those who are being investigated, to speed up the results. But it is absurd to think that I'm going to handle the bank that sits on the table of the district attorney, handle that problem, weaken the office of the tax investigator, roll it as a department under the tax, and mild punishments so that things can be done sooner. Mr. President. This is what I call a weak tax investigation in Iceland. They're doing it this way. An tax investigator himself has carefully reviewed this with us on the committee, and all can read about him and his office. There are also so many reports in which experts in this field have recommended to strengthen their office and to provide additional resources to cover serious tax frauds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u46	V.E.G. President. Experts have suggested that the tax investigator receive prosecution - which of the experts? Before the committee came a number of people. No one recommended it, not even former tax research directors, no more former taxpayers, not any man. None of these men view as weak an tax investigator or tax research. No one, just not any man. The only person who's made these comments is the tax investigator himself because he's no longer an independent organisation in town. This is not a weakness of tax research, it is being strengthened to enable tax research and monitoring within the administrative facility and to complete its affairs, the vast majority. But as soon as tax fraud is heard under the law of serious offenses, it is far more difficult than an investigation of a tax offense. So there are other offenses. That's why I don't think it's the norm that all that stuff is going to be just for an tax investigator. For how long? Until he can't handle them anymore? No, it is by far the best chance that it is cut and that it determines which case to remain and which language to go on, as is the case with this bill. [[The president calls.]] It's an efficient tax study. It's an effective treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u47	Mr. President. I did not judge for a specific question in a talk. A senator, and I'm glad he only got two minutes. But it is obvious that we disagree completely in these matters. There are a number of reports, as has been noted so often, just about the benefits of a tax investigator's getting power, and it is critical that the office was not specifically examined to further strengthen and bring further reliefs. What people were evaluating was whether they could succeed in running the office under a tax investigator. In the case of experts, it was necessary to make sure that the office had a measure of independence, and it was questioned by experts who came before the committee that it was guaranteed by this bill. According to a tax researcher, if he had to choose between going to a local district attorney or under the tax office, it would be better to have an expertise in the tax. Sadly, though, the project on the bill has made sure that the expertise needs to be taken up. Like what? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armoured position was fine earlier, but he feels that his expertise needs to be in two places, even though he has read it from the committee's opinion that it should be prevented. [[The president calls.]] It's like the rest of this bill, there's a lot of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u48	Mr. President. I've been aware of it since we got together with this bill. Harðardóttir Oddný is basically against what is being done here, and that is, of course, just the right of a person. However, witnessing is most effective because it is not the case. I'm gonna point my head. A senator has a review as the governor sent the commission, where he runs this case, and he says so. that, with the change here being made, the process of the entire tax system is the custody of the same institution, affording the opportunity to achieve as large a consultation as possible, and to shape and control such standards as best from beginning to end. Then I will quote this review with permission of the Supreme Court. President: With reference to a clearer change of action, both at the limit of the tax system and the penalties, and between those working in IRS and research, increasing consultation, clearer consultation with the treatment, increased transparency, and tools for accessing information, the state tax president of the bill is likely to support the fight against tax fraud, by compositing their resources over which the tax system overpowers. Then I'll ask why. A senator: Is it absolutely certain that these arguments, opinions, and claims that the governor has here, and I quote, are not true? That's what I'm talking about. A senator is arguing.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u49	Mr. President. I don't know what it's like to say. Of course, it's just very good and fine I don't know how I've claimed that what the tax investigator says in his review, that the benefits of the Commission work are wrong. [[Up front.]] And, of course, there are ways to improve cooperation between the EICs without uniting the organisations, and there are ways to do that. But if we're going to promote tax research, we're going to give the tax investigator extra tools, the prosecution, and even more projects, and look to Sweden in this regard. In Sweden, the tax investigator does not have legal authority, but close cooperation exists between local prosecutors and tax research. As a precaution, I would like us to imitate Sweden and to look to countries such as Finland, which is the rear of the issue, and furtherly we should look to Germany, who is a great tax researcher and who handles those matters severely. But here in Iceland, in the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, we're going to take steps to soften the penalty and pull the teeth, which I think is obvious, from IRS studies in Iceland. I think that's a bit lost, Mr President, and I'd like this bill to be referred to the Fathers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u50	Mr. President. The truth is, I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. A senator now. I quoted the statement by the tax manager, who claims that the change is being made will strengthen the fight against tax fraud. I understood why. A senator was referring to it earlier that it would not be, but on the contrary. An tax adviser also suggests that this is an opportunity to use a complete analysis for risk assessment and priorities in both tax research and tax monitoring based on the review of the procedure from the prospective or reporting criteria to collect. In other words, he is saying that it is a matter of taking steps in the opposite direction. A senator claims to be here. IRS research is under way. The fight against tax fraud is being strengthened, and under it the former executives of these offices and in reality also the person responsible for the investigation and charges of economic crime, the district attorney, and the State prosecutor. So the claims that by using this bill, IRS, tax research, or tax fraud struggles are failing. A senator, of course. A senator rejects what appears in the case of the governor of state tax. The question is, is it? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u51	Mr. President. Of course, I don't reject everything in this review. A senator is confusing matters so as not to deal with the most important things here. The current taxpayer, the individual, was reporting along with two other tax experts, who strongly recommended that Iceland's tax research become a sponsor and the office of the tax investigator be granted the prosecution, so there are certainly two aspects of this matter. But I understand that the boss who's supposed to have tax research into his eyes looks at the bright side, looking at what might be good in these matters. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's a good conversation between institutions, and I'm sure it could have improved, and it can be done without running the institutions together. Of course, it is obvious, and it can be seen who, when it comes to changing the process so that a serious tax law of tens of millions of dollars is put in just some guilty process and we don't go to prosecution, we're trying to substantiate how we deal with the tax laws in this country. Everyone must see that. The reason given in a report with the bill is that the stack on the table of the local district attorney needs to be reduced. This can be done in ways other than tax research and tax violations in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to legalize various tax and tax laws, tax-authorities incentives for the public. Now, a respectable president, this case has a considerable connotation and would like me to make a little more clear to them about the situation than the committee itself does. A discussion of changing tax and tax laws and spending to further the tax environment of lawmakers who work for the greater good and fall into the third sector, however, has had some consequences. The beginning of the matter is due to a synonym. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson moved to a Council of 143th. The proposal was to include a review of the GDP environment of the sports movement, including the fact that athletes and minors were to be withheld from their activities in all respects, along with the authority that athletes and young people are authorized to reimburse valuable taxes from the gymnasium of athletes in their sports fields, jobs, and purchases. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson made it possible to consider the economic importance of sports and the impact of organized sports activities on the sports team in a broad context. The role of the State must be to ensure the best means and resources for the nation's public and achievements. The sport movement would be of interest to the nation, and the main objective of the proposal would be to suggest that the government be involved in promoting organized sports, along with the participation of parents and others. The convention of 143th was not completed. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson made the decision again, but in its changed form as a bill in 144th, and again at the 145th Courtship. The bill was an amendment of the ESP and was aimed at changing the value of the athlete's movement's taxes in the same way as suggested in the Senate resolution proposal. The bill suggested that all sports sales activities be avoided by sports partners, along with reimbursement of a new building, reimbursement, and maintenance of a gymnasium, as well as a service to the design and monitoring of new building, refinance or maintenance of such facilities as and the remuneration of materials for such projects. This would be part of dealing with lack of athletes and better facilities. The bill then reached the 2nd. of the 145th legislature. A financial and business committee discussed the case that ended with a commission to refer the case to a government. The financial and economic minister had at this time appointed a management team to review the rules of cost taxes and product fees in order to simplify and improve the effectiveness of the system and suggested that these suggestions be considered in the operating group. At the 145th legislature, a professional body board was placed in charge of business. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son for the bill for reimbursement to society's common goods for mobilization and other projects. The bill was suggested to set up a special reimbursement system to promote any form of community service to the national community. The bill was authorized to reimburse organizations to the public good money of a valuable tax on man - made and other projects. The objective of the bill was to support the activities of such groups of fellow workers in order to encourage the development of various facilities. The bill was not paid at the 145th legislature and was reassigned to the 148th and 149th legislature. On April 1, 2018, the head of finance and economic ministers ordered a team of workers to offer proposals to change the law on taxation activities that fell into the third sector. The heat and the weight of that work carried heavily. Óli Björn Kárason and Willum Þór Þórsson. From the above, it is clear that there is a debate about changing the tax environment of lawmakers who work for the greater good and fall into the third sector, with the aim of furthering the important work there is of some consequence. The bill on this subject points to a change in various tax laws and fees. Among other things, legislators who work for the public good will be given a tax of specified capital revenues, established as their authority to receive reimburse 60% of the job tax from the construction team, that the ratio of job resources to the public goods will double in certain cases, and that individuals will be permitted to draw up certain financial contributions to the taxpayers working for public goods from taxpaying to make further terms filled. For a detailed discussion of the subject of the bill, see chapter 3 of this series. A respectable president. I'm just going to go close and figure out the adjustments that the more part suggests. In 1st. The bill is submitted to the change of Figure 4. a law on income taxes, which require annullation from income tax pay as a result of legislation that only defends their profits in the interests of social goals. In other aspects of the bill, the taximplies due to legal action are presented according to Article 4. and for those who make such companions contributions and gifts. So the tax incentives proposed in the bill apply to the legislators who fall under section 4. a law on income taxes. Exception from the payment of income tax according to Figure 4. The law of the law, with the proposed changes, applies to two criteria met, i.e. that profits are devoted only to the public good and that the attorney has one objective according to his approval. The report by the IRS points out that there is no room for a profit that was spent solely for the public good until stress, or about ten months after the end of the account year. In addition, it was noted that the terms given in Article 4. one for a job partner. In general, a standard charities, culture, and help groups would not have hands, but they would benefit from the payment of income tax on the basis of section 5. The law. The committee requested a memo from the Ministry where the Ministry's position would be made to the above comments made by the IRS. Having agreed with the IRS, the Ministry proposed changes to Article 1. the bill, as well as the secondary changes in other its terms in harmony. Using references to the Ministry memo, the majority of the objects contributes to the change of section 4. a law on income taxes will be added to a new paragraph where it appears that the terms per unit on the 5th will be 1 mg. 2. See, as per number five, section 4. a law on income taxes, and with the work required for the public goods shown in the number 4 of them. if there is no such thing as income tax, if they enter into a special public good file for the tax company file. It is then suggested that VII's regulations be set out specifically in the number. section of the Convention on Social Relations for Transboundary Activity, No. 119/2019, as appropriate, valid for registration of lawgivers in the public good news registry. Where it is assumed that the enterprises which fall under the new 9th section of Article 4. a law on income tax activities is suggested to some extent to raise funds, to allow them to be allowed within the limits specified in the approved legislation and to lead directly from its purpose, or if activities have only negligible financial significance in terms of the total labour of the legislature. That source is in harmony with 2 st. law on the registration of partners to the greater goods with cross-border activities, No. 119/209. In accordance with the above, the greater part contributes to the change to other aspects of the bill, so that the enterprises that fit into the new 9th sector. income tax laws enjoy the appeals of the bill. B-jords 1st. The bill is suggested that the new sentence be added to section 4. where the activities should be considered for the greater good. In the reviews given to the Committee, there were concerns that a list of activities considered to the public might rule out some organizations that work in behalf of a particular right from the pleasure of the demands. Iceland's Women's Women's Court even pointed out... in his review that it is uncertain whether an organization that fought for the rights of the peripheralized groups in the community fell under the terms of a human-sufficiency and charity. It then points out that the activities of nature and environmental organizations are not clear whether they will fall under the list of b-parties 1. An article with the bill defines what activity depends on the directive. While such a judgment count should be guided by the filling of terms, such as the social system, or the humane way, the nature of the operation will ultimately depend on the nature of it. The majority believe that the environmental and natural protection systems are involved in cultural activities in the sense of the law, and therefore they enjoy the appeals of the law, which in part meets the other conditions of the 9th count. Similarly, operations on the improvement in the favour of perimeter-set groups are considered to be humanitarian. The majority of the data shows that the definitions suggested to be a- and b-coma 4th paragraph. a law on income taxes is quite general, and it is intended to cover a wide range of legal agencies working in the interests of social issues. In view of this, the greater part is considered inappropriate that sports activities are specifically indicated in the b-party of the directive. On the one hand, it is clear that the majority of sports functions generally fall under juvenile and cultural activities and, on the other hand, may provide some doubt as to physical activity. Therefore, suggest that the larger portion falls from indicating specifically that sports function falls to section 4. a law on income taxes. Eight. The bill is suggested that four new paragraphs be added to 42. g. Law on Valuable Credits, No. 50/1988, where there will be rights to work for the greater good in reimbursement of 60% of the valuable tax they have paid from work at a construction site, maintenance or reform of their resources, or their specific assessments. The majority of the data shows that according to current temporary XXXIV legislation on cost taxes, no. 50/1988, owns the legislation mentioned in the bill on 100% reimbursement due to the above toppings until the end of 2021. The majority of it seems reasonable that the remuneration rate will remain 100% to December 31st, 2025, so bed rests to assess the impact of this indiscriminate activity. It is also suggested that a review of the Law be made before the end of its time. The majority suggest that the office of the law be held on November 1st, 2021. In this way, the Tattoo allows space to establish an open public goods file because of the agencies that will fall to 9th english. a law on income taxes. However, a value score of 8. g. The bill continued on January 1, 2022; provided temporary XXXIV legislation on the merit tax laws, No. 50/1988, through 31 December 2021. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under these writings, the chairman of the Committee, Jón Björn Steindór, Jóldrsson, Bristedur the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and The Þórarinn Ingi son of Pétursson. Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson and Smári Mccarthy publications under the heading under a warning that they intend to make an account in the conferences. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to thank you to the highest degree. The Secretary of Economics and Economics for finally putting the bill in this suit and we're on the way we've got it now. As I pointed out earlier in my speech, there is a considerable delay in the subject. It is of great importance to me, I must say, to be the guide of this case, for there are other members of the council who have carried the heat and weight of putting it into the course it is today. I thank you for the privilege of intervening in, and I would like to thank especially the president of the Economic and Business Committee, Óli Björn Kárason, for the confidence of receiving this case. I hope that people will come along to discuss this case because it is, I think, one of the matters that many have been waiting for in this sector. If we look to our neighbors in the North and elsewhere, there are organizations and communities that work in this sector with various tax incentives too. This is likely to enhance and strengthen the work that is of interest to all everywhere, for many are the budget and the operation is varied. But most of all, it's about the boys fired, if I may sod, a respectable president, who is an ◯non-protgott's society. In fact, people are working very hard in these communities, and I believe that by means of this bill, we are responding to all the vital activities there is to deal with. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u53	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss changes in various tax and tax laws, tax-authorities incentives for lawyers working for the greater good. This is a proposal to further the public good work through the fiscal incentives to the third sector, which we sometimes call, which we call to work and contribute to the public good, as well as to individuals and companies that contribute to this activity through work, contributions, financial contributions, and other such support. I want to agree with what. A historian and a senator, Pétursson Ingi, who ended up thanking the highest. Financial and economic ministers. I welcome this matter quite specifically, as any member of the council, that I think, in my standing position. The Economic and Business Committee on this matter is that it's all the way into the General Hall of 2rd. in this position, with the changes proposed by the committee. I consider these changes to be improved and inevitable, in effect, to suggest it based on the comments received. V.E.G. The secretary of finance took this matter to himself, we can say, and appointed a team. I assure you that this would not have reached all the way, despite the fine minds of many members of the Parliament and the council all through the years of putting their arms around and promoting volunteer work in the country. When it comes to definitions and to form a taxiculator, the matter gets a little complicated. Hv. A senator and prominent Þórarinn, Igngi Pétursson, traced the story along with the speculum of the case. There are many members of the community who work for the greater good. A number of their associates and volunteers perform unselfish volunteer work and tasks that we would not otherwise be able to do, whether by means of planning or by the strength that we often experience, that I do not talk about financial matters. This bill is most important to recognize and support this vast work in so many areas; in sports, leisure, youth, especially among children and adolescents, charities, humanitarian organizations, aid companies, and others; a job that we truly need as a community; and could not be brought up if all of it was going through the state's funds. A matter of this nature has been raised several times by members of the council because the mind is good behind it, and the interest is there to promote and support this work. It may have been more of a matter of how far this should be, and to what type of tax will it be achieved. To a large extent, things have been reversed by the construction and prevention of children and teenagers, and this story is well used in a committee program with the case. I'm only going to refer to the committee's opinion of the case when it was treated in 2016. I find it interesting to think back and to realize how important it has really been to go through this process of maturity. It says, by permission of the president: The bill suggests that the services and warehouses of sports and youth society used to raise funds for their nuclear function will be avoided by a valuable supplementary tax. It is also suggested that youth, sports, youth, and adolescent society be reimbursed a valuable tax due to the specified costs of the athlete's ethic in 2016. The objective of the bill is to support the activities of sports, juvenile and adolescent members, especially volunteers, and the building up of athletes. Similar issues were presented in 143 and 144th, the legislative Council (487th and 411rd). During the past few years, there have been reviews on the terms of cost taxes and product fees to simplify and improve system efficiency. At that time, a member group was appointed to address the entire corporate tax system and suggested that these suggestions be taken into consideration. It is hardly surprising to say that there were days when this is a complicated task, but then, as now, the sincere intent of the transporters was to support this powerful volunteer work that I will be talking about. When I speak in complicated terms, it may be seen of the changes proposed here for greater clarity, and I support you. I've been through this on the reviews and consultations with what. The IRS and the Ministry. This has a key relevance when it comes to the tax environment of the Third sector, extramarital, extramarital, and monitoring, which included: The task force. He also offered proposals for changes in various taxes, which went through the bill we deal with here and are subject to the genetic tax, property tax, capital tax, stamp tax, value tax, and humanitarian support and income tax. Hence, the matter has become far wider than we have ever seen, so it can be said to be. Work committee and what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson updated the case and put it in the suit we're looking at here. Children's predestination includes much of this activity, and it is undisputed that it has enormous value. At the outset, I asserted that this is not the case and would come all this way if it was the highest. Financial and economic ministers wouldn't have captured what he did by order of an Outfit. I want to take this opportunity here, tops. President, and highlight who were in this group because I can see that it is not mentioned in the bill. The staff at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers appointed Óli Björn Kárason, the Guðrún Inga of emissary, Börkur Sívertsen and Arnarson Invún and Helga Jónsdóttir, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Then they worked with the Hlynur Ingason group and Ingibjörg Helga Helgadóttir, lawyers at the Ministry. I want to use this opportunity here to thank this powerful team for the cooperation and work, and the reporting that lays the foundation of the bill. V.E.G. President. I can tell you right here that it wasn't really until we began looking at the project as it was suggested in an order that I realized how intense it really was and how close it was, despite a good mind over the years. As mentioned in the commission, and I'm going to review the report, the staff was aimed at offering proposals for change and following acts of law and regulations that apply to taxation of the activity that falls under the third sector or is considered to be cultural. So there was another expansion of the case. In addition, when it comes to making a decision, the tax environment is complex. Similarly, it was important to make a comparison of the way these things are used in our controlled countries. We did some work on the very useful materials, as followed by the process. Despite the long - term use of public goods, taxation, tax freedom, reimbursement, or tax recovery, it can be said that to date taxation was more like taxation from public institutions rather than from markets. To some extent, where these communities, however, are engaged in a social and important work for the welfare community, which the government would otherwise have to do, and including. in comparison with other nations, it was clear that the work force could be done better. We were boating, and we've been boating in these waters. So we stressed that not only was it important but it was the prerequisite for such coincidences to be timely, that the frame and definition of the concept of the public good was clear and registration of the tax. I can see why. A financial and business committee has worked very hard to control this aspect. I can see that from the background too. I appreciate that the changes made by the Committee are greatly improved and more clear, as it has a key element in terms of the tax, outside, maintenance, and monitoring. It's not long since we approved a national health law. The staff offered suggestions for changing taxes, as I did earlier. It seems to me that almost all of these suggestions have found their way into the bill. Then, of course, you can discuss how far it should go. There's got to be a time to prove. Perhaps that was the main factor involved in the construction and reimbursement of a valuable tax, how such support might be developed. Of course, we have models, I name films, book editions, when it comes to enforcing the cost and having some boundaries. On the one hand, members of the Parliament's interest in increasing motivation and support over a long period of time have created expectations. I think most of us have felt that way. It may be said that pedestrians sit a little behind because it is a long time since we began discussing these matters, with the thought of achieving some progress. But I know that the committee spoke considerably about the threshold. The reviews indicate that it is a general pleasure with the bill, and especially with regard to supporting this important work, promoting, and respecting the work of volunteer workers in the country. The changes presented here are the responses to the indications presented and turned towards the definition and separation of the set of values, and the committee did it very well. V.E.G. President. I could stand here a lot longer than all day, but I'm not sure there's a lot of demand for it. But at the end, I want to draw some interesting changes, to create a change in tax pay laws, which will prevent a considerable percentage of the funds that support public welfare work from paying taxes. There's an exception to charity from a valuable tax. A reimbursement that has been put on so much over the years will be beneficial in the construction of workers and perhaps especially maintenance. In many areas it is a large part of activity, but in other areas, it is less involved, and I also saw it in comments to the subject. But this will be of great importance to the various communities and organizations. Then it's the deduction of the job driver from the income tax. We've seen the matter. I remember a case like that. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson proposed to increase that ratio, and here we are seeing a two-fold increase in that proportion, from 0.75 to 1.5% due to production to public and carbon balance. That may be where we see the future we look at in a digital green environment. There's a very interesting addition, I would say. I also realize that there will be a great increase in opportunities, the change to allow individuals to subsidize their individual tax dollars for public goods, not more than 350,000 dollars. I think that will be of great benefit in many parts of the world and will be a very large addition. I will think of ideologies in a wide sense in that subject and is well - known. I'm going to finish my talk, but I can only admit that I am very pleased with this speech. I'd also like to state that this case has been financed, that's a budget behind it of 2.1 billion, so it's done pretty well and thought about it. Of course, at the time of my discussion, I have provided both bills and council proposals and I have been co-sponsored on other issues relating to this, but I intend to reiterate that the case had not been made to this place except by the highest level. Governments - this text can be found in a government contract, perhaps not quite exactly the exact same as it is implemented or equal to it. I'm telling you, if it's the highest. Government and supreme. The secretary of finance and economics wouldn't have taken the case this way, we wouldn't have finished it in this way. I am so happy and sincerely hope that this will benefit from all the public good work in the country. I want to thank you all at the end. For the management of the case on the final meters, the Economic and Business Committee is a good job and the head of the Committee. It's a real joy to me, and I think we're all happy that this place has come to this place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u54	A respectable president. I truly agree that I think we have a very important case here. I think there's also good reason to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, who led the group he referred to earlier in his talk, was basically the foundation of the bill. I agree with what's been said here, and it also happened when the bill was recommended in its own time, that it's to show a certain appreciation, to show that it is important for our community that we have these public community out there, or the so-called Third Amendment. I think that most of the country's people will be aware of the importance of looking to the rescue forces at this time, and the great feats of the country's rescue forces, whether at the stop or after the storm we've been through in the last winter. Of course, that is so much more. There are all the sports companies and there are all the budgets that are fighting for humanitarianism and the like. So I think we're here with an overcommittee, and I'm on the committee's opinion and I support the whole thing. It is important to realize that with the work of these partners a pair of state and rural money, so if the price needed to be paid full for all the services made by the third sector - I don't even know if it has been tried to evaluate, what financial food is under it, but it's Gagitian in terms of magnitude. I may also be saying this because I think it is very important that we not always be occupied with it; the third sector is built on volunteers, and it is based on the view that people want to do something without always getting paid for money back. Hence, it is important that we as citizens in this society share in volunteer work and cooperate with our partners, whether parents, sports companies, Boy Scouts, or anyone else. Still, I wanted to share some of the concerns that I have had when these issues have come up. As shown in the introduction, and why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson also came in, it has proved to be a little more complicated than we initially thought. The shrimping steps can be many, and for many years, as an ex-communicator, I pondered the cooperation of my rural society with my public welfare partner. Then I may be looking especially at an athlete, but there may also be other communities; there are questions about who should be built on that activity. Is this part of the community, or is it right for society to be involved? We've seen a combination of it over the years. Whether this step is more likely to contribute to the self - attack of capitals rather than of society's investments. That may be a good thing. There may be good reasons for that. But I'd like to say, it's also very important for these public community to look at the shared economy, if you don't mind me saying it that way. In other words, I'm saying that not everyone needs a box around his business. It is too common for a smaller public community to attack in some kind of structure, investment, and, after all, may not have been correctly planned. Then some people have signed their names and are often called on to visit the local community. Even local authorities are sometimes put up against a wall, for this is all an important and important group of subjects. These fine buildings may succeed, but when it comes to looking at the cost of business, we have forgotten to assume that in plans or something has changed. This is where the negative senator Brutí Haraldsdóttir speaks, but I still wanted to name it. You see, we tend to have a lot of money tied up in real estates, which are even used for just a few hours a week. Of course, you would want to see that societies shared more frequently, and communities would also have the opportunity to share places with all kinds of communities, e.g. Our schoolyard address, which is more magnificent, I think, who are known. You go to school abroad, where there are not as fine buildings and buildings as we live here, and as a result, it is likely to be used to a greater degree. I just wanted to promote these questions in this discussion, but at the same time, I think it's an important and good step to encourage people to support public society. So I'm glad we're here with this bill and we're going to finish it in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u55	A respectable president. I'm going to thank my friends who have spoken for this matter here. I'm also going to, like the one before me, thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for putting this matter on the inside of the council. I think that's what this is all about, like so many others, they need a little pregnancy. It has certainly taken some time to reach the conclusions we discuss here. Sometimes it just has to happen so that the result will be as good as possible. I agree that it is possible to approach the government Treaty, and the government and finance minister have, along with members of Parliament who worked preparatoryly on the bill, put matters into place here. You can see from the reviews how much this is celebrated and how different the organizations that produce news are, in fact,. When we talk about the third sector or the public community, the rescue forces are the nature of the matter, according to the top issue and by other parties. It's because they're very visible, because we couldn't have been without all these public welfare partners. It was the childhood, the Psychics, the Women's Rights Association, the Natural Protection Organization, and the sports society, and especially the rescue teams that sent in, along with many others, in fine and good comments and cheered it up. I'm just gonna say it for a second. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir was talking about with the local communities. This was an extremely good point, the one to unite in a situation rather than the need for everyone to have a place for them. In any case, those associates do not have to have real estate on their own. But then we can see, and we've had reports of, up until December 31, 2025, that with the approval of this bill and, in particular, the regulations under which the remuneration rate in the cost tax will be 100% until December 31, 2025, many of the people who have had to be able to attack, repair, or new buildings or anything else, projects that have not been possible for many years. With this matter accepted, it will be possible, and it is extremely important. You know many places in the country where people have been praying to get their own housing, e.g. Like rescue forces, who will then be as happy to unite with others in a situation. So I wanted to come up here and celebrate this case. This is one of the things I have received by a senator many phone calls and e - mails about whether this is really not happening. That's why I'm glad we've come to this place. I agree that it is very important that individuals can also get deduction by helping public welfare companies. If we're available, it's my opinion that we should support the public welfare companies we choose to do, some of them us, many of us, but others we get, as it says. Of course, we, of course, are to do so, and this may be even more encouraging to do so, making the money more powerful than it is. As I said before, I don't think we can do without these partners. There are so many of them on this land.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u56	Mr. President. I am delighted to see that there seems to be much solid solid solid solidarity in this matter. I'm going to allow me to assert that this is a big success because the messages from this room, with this bill, to a free society working for the public, whether it's sports society, rescue groups, charities of various kinds, such as the Cancer Society, Children's Health Organization, are these: we appreciate what you're doing. Not only do we appreciate it but we realize how important your work is and we want to encourage the public to assist us. This is the message from this room to the thousands of volunteers who make it a point to participate in the activities of their public welfare partners in various fields. Being here as a senator and sharing in such a success is not in vain. I think we're supposed to be pretty proud, but we're also supposed to make a promise that we're not going to be stopped here, but we're going to develop it on the basis of experience. We are also saying in self - interest institutions that support research and development: We know how important your work is. We know how important college fund is, for example. To the University of Iceland. Therefore, we believe it is wrong to believe that special capital taxes and your births are being laid to carry out the task you have undergone. This will promote education, research and knowledge in Icelandic society. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I thought it was time to come up here and say those few words. In the end, I want to thank you. For his leadership in this case, a prominent historian, Þórarinn Pétursson, Peter's son. But I can't step down any other way than to say that if anything. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson would not have followed this case for some years, and he would have shown extraordinary persistence if we were not in this place. But, of course, it's the highest. Financial and economic ministers, Bjarni Benediktsson, also have a huge share.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u57	A respectable president. Since the pandemic of the crown virus, investments have been greatly contracted, with unemployment increasing dramatically. Publicly, however, there has been a lack of investments on the part of private citizens, with increased expenses for public projects. At the same time, it is clear that despite the pandemic process, the battle against climate addiction will not disappear, and it is vital that governments cooperate with policy makers in these areas. In order to support the green transformation necessary in all areas of the community to achieve government climate targets, the bill I address is in the process of changing income tax laws, focusing on the need for incentives to return to environmentally sustainable investments. Thus, the bill is a factor in government action and a more powerful resistance to the negative effects of the Covid pandemic by promoting green-investment. The committee received a number of members, as the committee noted, and a number of reports were received. This bill suggests a new provision for temporary use, on the other hand, for the pre-employment of the labour market in the form of funds obtained in 2021, faster than the existing legislation, and on the other hand, a warrant is given to calculate the premium burden of certain environmental labour markets obtained from 2021 and 2022. As I said before, professional investor has been highly intertwined. So the bill aims to create a general workforce for investment. With these taxable attractions, we are going to promote investments in environmental possessions. At the same time, this is part of a government action to face the economic effects of the pandemic and part of the effectiveness policies in the fight against the climate. A respectable president. So I'm going to go over a few things where there's a reason. The Economic and Business Committee proposed a specific change. Regarding the expiry pressure, KPMG refers to the inference resulting from a warrant for a 2 mg per cap. 1st par. The bill will vary depending on your style. If the expiration rate, as suggested, is 15%, the indiscriminate price will be 3% for partners suffering from 20% income tax. It would then be a 5.64% purchase price for 37.6% earners, but it could be worth up to 7% of an independent person's price. Hv. The Director of Economic and Business Commission requested a memo from the Ministry on this matter. It stated that regardless of business practices, it was in accordance with the fact that the coincidence was 3%. Hence, the commission suggests that, regardless of the management plan, it will be 5% of the price. Then the commission proposes permission to put an expiration burden to the end of 2025. This will help with green investments, sustainable development and changing climate practices. The committee believes that the period of the expiry pressure is too short to reach the full end of the bill. This committee aims at the Ministry to evaluate the experience of a special expiry burden before the end of 2025. If so, we are wondering, " Is this arrangement not a permanent arrangement? ' The bill speaks of BAT criteria reports. I'm going to allow me to doubt that many people know exactly what is being discussed there. However, the Committee received a review from the EEA to further use the term BAT results than BAT criteria reports. Having agreed with the Ministry, we suggest this change. It refers to the European Union BAT results and emissions criteria in relevant EU BAT results. So it's a bit technical, it's just a change in word. The bill says that because of assets powered 100% of electricity from renewable energy sources, biofuels, or electricity sources, we must calculate 15% of the expiry pressure. However, it was reported on the Committee that driving cars are rarely 100% powered with methadone, methadone, and ethanol. In any case, a small amount of fossil fuels are used to temperature the engine so that biofuels can be burned. Hence, the Committee suggests that 100% of the committee mentioned in the bill will be converted to 85%. If we consider it to be the same goal and, in fact, become more effective because biofuels that have sometimes had a bit of heat. The bill expected to publish a list of taxpayers who take advantage of the expiry pressure. In a joint review of the Association of Employment, Business Association, and Service, the Industrial Association, the Marine Association, and the Transporter Association, it says that such publication can have a discouraging effect on the use of resources, which may lead to the revealing of the information on the lasting information in the public economy. Therefore, the Commission suggests that the obligation of the IRS to publish a list of those who use the resources laid down in the bill will be removed, for they may work against the goal of the bill to encourage green investments if the operators hold back from using them indiscriminately. Six. 1st par. The bill speaks of the opinion of independent experts, i.e. that, with the tax returns, a specific support should be given to how the expiry burden conditions are met for each individual property. However, after overcrowding with the governor, the Commission believes that such regulations and certain financial boundaries are unnecessary, as are done in the bill. We have reason to believe that the government taxpayer will evaluate each time how tax control is conducted, whether and what financial boundaries are used to guide that assessment and what data and explanations he wishes from taxpayers to do so at a time. Therefore, the Commission suggests that it will be removed because after this consultation, we feel that the governor has the authority needed to request all the evidence necessary to evaluate this investment. The bill stated that a company owns or the authority of the state or community does not fall under it, nor does the taxpayers considered to have financial problems. After reviews from visitors and those who sent us reviews, there are concerns. A financial and business committee says it's really unnecessary. We say that here in a little long text that I was going to try not to read all of it. In other words, we don't think there's any reason to have those conditions in the bill. When it comes to business in financial problems, if they cannot take advantage of the resources proposed, the memo says: Since working in financial situations would have accumulated tax losses, the presumption would not be acceptable. It would be only if business ventures could be reversed and profited more than an earlier collection of losses so that they would first be exposed to the expiry pressure. If it was clear that it would succeed, a society would be in financial trouble, only temporarily. Thus, the Ministry may feel that it is proper to meet the requirements. As a result, we feel that such outdoor situations are unnecessary. In terms of a government or a community enterprise, there were also several discussions. It was specifically quoted from Landic activation, as I recall, that there was a reason why the energy companies were under there. Then we could ponder over these enterprises in general owned by a state and a community, and we felt that it was a reason to eliminate them. In addition, there are other technical variations that are not intended to exert material influence and are provided in a special document on the changes proposed on this bill. The Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the changes I've gone over here and with the technical changes available. Ágústsson Ólafur Águssson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson publications on this committee in advance that they intend to make an account of during a debate. Jón Valdimarsson and Smári Mccarthy publications under the heading in advance. They disagree with the logic of the greater part of the final part of the 5 mg. 1st par. to display a list of those who make use of the premise on the tax website. Under this opinion, everyone writes a letter. Senators on hold. Economic and Business Committee, i.e. Chairman of the Committee Óli Björn Kárason and what. The members of Brumbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Smári Mccarthy, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, and the one standing here. A respectable president. So I've finished reviewing this committee opinion. I'd like to say from my point of view that this is a very important matter. That's even. ... as a result of what I've been doing here, that we've seen employment investing get really close together, and we know that the future's economic growth is that employment investing is really important. This is what we want to encourage, but not only that, but we also look to what kind of woodwood we're going to see out of this kofi. We are promoting green investments, promoting the goals we have set for ourselves in climate. I think that's very important. Then you can wonder why this is a Covid procedure and not just a general procedure. That's one of my questions. I only brought it into my discussion if it was natural that this was just a general motive. Then the other view is that we should generally have low taxes and not have to complicate the system with such things, but the other view is that we will probably have to look to it for a long time to encourage even more green investments. However, it is as good and fantastic as this bill is, and the goal is to do so, so you can quite expect it to become a complication of the process. This may be the least of the reasons why we deal with the committee's view of success. Therefore, I think it is important that such a summary would be established before it was determined exactly how to attack the longer term tax impulse. A respectable president. In other words, I'm saying that I think, and now I'm speaking from my own heart, but I think that most of us would agree on that in our case. A financial and business committee, that it's a big deal. But when you look at the bill and 1st par. The list is there, and I'm sure it will test the fine workers of the IRS when it all comes to all of this. As a result, we have reason to see how it will work out. But the big thing is we have the courage to take these steps. I think this step is important, and we should have the courage to step it. That's why I'm grateful to the highest degree. The secretary of the budget for bringing in this case and the Commission for putting it out here. I trust that we here at the council Hall will reach the end of this case here in all the next few days, because I know there are companies out in the community waiting to see what conclusion we're getting into this. I'm absolutely convinced that this will be an incentive for further investments and that's what we need at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u58	President. I make a rather simple statement that needs to be recommended, for the trial is that when a new law of change was made in 2020, a new law of Regulation was stated and failed to refer to 1 mg. when co-administered with 2. mg, who was conscientiously referred to. In other words, there was an unsatisfactory reference to the law as agreed in the previous and inadequacy by 2 mg. Section 6. b and 6 mg. 8 par. Then here is the correct reference in Section 3. Thirty-eight. In all the inductions and exchanges between committee and Ministry strategist and the work being done there, this was simply a mistake, so it's being fixed here. It is also suggested that two types of the European Union be introduced and added to Article 47. The law. This consists of a Directive (EU) 2018/410 and a forward decision made by the European Commission (EU) 2020/1071. Finally, a change in II is proposed. Annex to the Act in accordance with the aforementioned Commission decision (EU) 2020/1071. The majority believe that when it comes to correcting offenses or other legal problems, the need to respond promptly so that legislation will be as careful as possible and that it has proposed a judicial opinion with a change of motion in which there is a slight adjustment that is not meant to have a material effect, hopefully so that we do not have to stand here again and correct it. The correction of the climate law I recommend here is that of June 24 of the 5th year. Come on: 14th of July. Hv. Senators Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and Jón Gunnarsson were absent from the case, but Hanna Katrín Friðriksson signes with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, an officer of the committee, agrees with the opinion. And it's for me, as well, who's a pilot, w-w. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u59	President. I recommend a board of committees on bill making adjustments in organizational laws, building infrastructure and living quarters. It's a two-way case. I'm only going to get to the second part first, but it's turning on a postponement for when a principle can be suspended about six weeks of minimum time to give a comment on a proposal to change the sharing structure of an apartment building. That's the second part that's here, but I'm going to get into the first section of my speech a little bit better, which turns to the structure of wood, i.e. ECGs. It's fine to trace it, so we all keep it in mind, why this change is being made. This comes from the so - called storm commission - now I'm not the best at timing, Mr. President, who was here the prospective Christmas of 2019. [[Up to 2019.]] Thank you. Councilmen are provided with guidance and assistance, they know this insult in my sense at a linear time, thank you for pent. The storm caused the inhabitants of large areas to live in a situation that is simply out of control, to be powerless for days, and so it became clear that action was needed. This meeting committee was appointed to review it, but it represented recruitment and stakeholders, as well as the Union's member countries, which led to various changes in law, including this. This proposal, in daily numbers, has been referred to as an electro-linear committee, and it turns out that when electrical lines cross rural communities, there will be changes in organizational laws that will make a decision for such projects across rural areas, which will be a sort of outer hat over rural communities. President. Naturally, this aroused and continues to stir up discussions about the organizational authority of rural society. Few things have been discussed recently, even though the situation may not have always gone high, on the most unlikely issues, and on different occasions than the organizational authority of rural society. It's been a bit of a thrill to observe that fact has often changed sides on the battlefield, i.e. Those who, in one case, maintain the organizational authority of rural society in a way that must be protected above all else are not so concerned about this. I mention this case, for, of course, some comments were made that even here they were taking part in the organizational affairs of the rural community. Again, I remind you that the European Union was involved in this preparatory group. I'm talking about a highland national park where much has been discussed that there's been a group planning program. As I mentioned earlier, there may be people who feel that the planning of this facility is not being properly organized in the highland park and vice versa, people who say this is going on in the planning business may not be doing so in the high national park. I mention this, Mr. President, to make it clear that opinions on this matter are different, and comments on this were received to the Committee, especially from Reykjavíkurburg through the European Commission's conferences. So that I run a short list of elements of the bill, as I did earlier, it is suggested that the minimum time for the ads of the main and shared organisations involved in building houses, and not depend on environmental impact, will be reduced from six weeks to four, and then a new statement on the geographical data and consultations that will be carried out by the Organization. As for an electron committee, there was the point towards the system proposed in the bill using an electronic committee to make the community planning and self-sponsored system an unacceptable precedent for the limitation of that right rural society. It was not clear that this arrangement would solve any problem. Clearly, the bill includes variations from the organizational principles behind the direction of rural areas. All such abnormalities should be interpreted very narrowly. A greater part of it points to the fact that, as discussed in the bill's report, there are already some laws that place restrictions on the authority of rural society to determine land use. It may be, Mr. President, good to remember that there are already some programs, some of the agreements we're doing here, and it can't be overlooked that there are certain limits to society planning. I'll name Landsnet's system plan as a good example of this, and there are other things to it. The majority of the rights to the bill are clearly defined as content, i.e. they take only to fix electric lines in electrical transport systems. The laws do not reach other people's hearts, such as transportation. Is the greater estimate that they do not set a precedent for further limitation of rural planning. I'm going, Mr. President, simply to mention the elephant in the living room, for this is specifically referring to the willingness of more of the committee, which is also made clear in the case of the jury's minister, that this applies exclusively to electrical cables. This does not apply, for example, to the airport in Reykjavík, for the above is the case with the example I mentioned earlier, a discussion of the organizational authority of rural society, and it needs to be looked for regular launchings at the General Assembly of the Council of Reykjavík for the area now dedicated to the airport. Therefore, I well understand that the representatives of Reykjavíkurburg have already been warned of such matters. That's why, in good discussions and discussions with the Committee, we make such a strong statement. The main transport systems of electricity are unique in nature, exceed the limit of several rural communities, and differ from other social structures, which, in the opinion of the greater part, justify discussion of organizational changes and implementation of licenses for specific treatments. Just as a report with the bill shows, an observation by a group of workers appointed for the storm in December 2019, showed that significant delays occurred in recent years in the preparatory process of electrical transport systems, particularly with the main transport system responsible for the Landsnet. In view of the greater part, it is necessary to ensure the delivery of electrical energy across the country, with the objective of employment and rural development and, therefore, be sure to simplify and speed the pace of a decision to fix the electrical line, and then to recreate the results of the assigned group of workers, and I came here to a level that crossed the situation after the storm - the storm call of the storm --address Committee as it has been called. President. I'm going to make this work with the planning and the regulations and the electron committees so much. In terms of deadlines for changes in the housing sharing structure, rural management is suggested to be allowed to deviate from the principle about a minimum of six weeks in order to give a review of a proposal for a change in the sharing structure of an apartment building. A rural government may determine that the delay will be at least four weeks. It is hardly true to say that there were differing opinions among the reporters on this bill's terms, and the views were certainly shown that the source did not go far enough and that it should aim to shorten the time of treatment for all planning procedures. However, the opposing viewpoint showed that it would be unattracted at a period of reporting, in which it caused a deterioration in the public's ability to arrive in the organizational process. In view of the greater part, this is a gap between the two groups, and it seems that the greater part is advisable to aim for the change in the setting of an apartment building. However, we are directed to the Ministry to review the presentations and contract requirements of organizational law with the aim of ensuring efficient administration while taking care of the right of the public to participate in organizational changes in its surroundings. I'm gonna, Mr. President, let me just talk again about something other than the ones underneath. I have also experienced this in the past few months, and I miss that people who have strong opinions about the deadline often change their mind based on what is underneath. This has been experienced in my work by leading a group to a review of the environmental assessment laws. I'm the opinion, and I'm very glad that there's been a search into the committee, that we just need to settle over this whole thing, we need to see what forms are in force in the system so that those that are involved don't have to doubt that if this is such a matter, it's eight weeks's delay, if that's the case, it's six weeks and then four more. It simply takes more coordination. Finally, President, it is recommended that new geographical data and consultation recommendations be made by the Organization. It is a positive step in the process of simplifying the bioavailability of stakeholders to the current strategy and treatment of new organizational and implementation. In fact, the speakers expressed their joy in the entrance of the portal, urging that it be started as soon as possible. However, it would have to be tailored to the needs and practices of rural society as well as to the Organization and it would have been pointed out to the nooses that had occurred in the introduction of a new construction portal of the Housing Agency, and we, in the greater part, take our minds under these views. In this context, again, I would like to mention a review of environmental impact assessments, as they are much lost on a similar concept, i.e. A code of information where all parties can approach all the data issues involved in each case. Access to data is one of the key elements of the Insar Treaty that guarantees the right of the public to information and therefore we welcome this very, very much, these sheets or reforms in the direction of opening access through the portal. The majority of the items provide a modification proposal and a system reference to the construction of the electrical power system; I only established a system plan earlier. The Bible's Viewpoint, No. 65/2003, would be a system plan subject to consent rather than confirmation of the Power Institute. Then the term would have confirmed specific meanings in organizational laws and would better coordinate the wording in this regard with electrical laws. The majority agree with this and suggests a change to the reference of an agreed system protocol instead of a confirmed entry in Article 1, 2 and 7. The bill. Override of an electrical system: 1st. D-Men 7. it is stated that once the deadline for comment has passed, the electro-linear committee should recommend a re-enactment of the electrical structure and take a position on the application for implementation. It was noted that at this stage in the procedure there is neither a license application nor a time to take a position in the application procedure. This is when an electro-line structure has become valid by verifying the minister and launching in the Control Department. This suggests that the greater part contributes to the implementation of a contract application, including ◯ departing from the arrangement. Finally, President, the cost of an electrical system and monitoring procedures: between sections 4 and 13. it is determined that the costs of an electronic structure and monitoring should be paid by the manager. It was found that there are inconsistencies between this and the 14th paragraph. in which an electronic committee is authorized to collect costs for the recruitment of the Commission by the executive. The majority suggest a change to 14th paragraph. the agreement between these rules, i.e. to the electron Committee collects the cost. This suggests a number of technological changes that are not meant to have material influence. The majority suggest that the bill will be approved by the adjustment made in a special Senate document, and to some extent I have made an explanation here. Under these publications, besides mine, which is the guide, hva. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Ari Brjánsson Guðmundsson, Guðjonnsson, Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson, in advance, Jón Gunnarsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér for history. I'm on an environment and transport committee with what it's like. A senator and we covered the bill well. Hv. A senator has done quite well here the discussion that took place, the concern that was put on because of the intervention of the organizational authority of the bill, with very good logic, it should not be overlooked, especially in view of the shock that a large part of the country suffered during the last year after the storm, but it does not change the fact that the intervention of local law - enforcement is a very big step. We worked hard to get this committee, the wording in the chapter on the electron committee, and an electrical system, in the process that under no circumstances would ever be considered an example. But then I have a case that I'm worried about, so I'm just telling it right out. Hv. A senator mentioned that the highest. An environmental minister handling this case would himself have declared that this was not an condemnation if I understood him just now. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator has heard the words spoken by the highest degree. Environment Minister on what? paritaprevir The comicry of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir here last night was discussing a revised national planning policy, where a minister himself enters this case, saying, by permission of the president: I don't think it's wrong to see how it does itself, it's gonna be a bill to the law, to be the bill -- the bill we're talking about right now - - -- ◯ i.e. to have the arrangement in a way that you will be able to do it in a way that allows you to do it. It's the highest. Minister to refer to the development of local organizational rights. [[The president calls.]] Now I don't know what it is. A senator has been given the opportunity to observe this. That's what I'm talking about. A senator believes that the warnings we are given on an environment and transport committee will ensure that here we are not opening up some ablade and allowing some elephants, like what they're doing. A senator mentioned in his speech, into the floor? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u61	President. In terms of the expression in the committee opinion, this is quite clear and work together in close cooperation, as is the case. A senator came in. I want to thank you. A senator is very cooperative and discussions about this very matter. I think we've all come to it, so we wanted to tie it as the most fixed knots around this very thing, and I think we did it. I find it difficult to see that there is a much clearer wording here than we are here. We simply say: The bill's regulations are clearly defined for matter and include only the correction of electric lines in the electrical transport system. As if it is not enough that it is not, it is better to have lived below it, to say that the law does not reach other infrastructures, such as transportation. The greater part estimate is that there is no precedent for further limitation of rural planning. I have to confess, Mr President, that I did not hear the exchange of words. A senator refers to and doesn't know if he's at the top. A minister was here just looking at how this arrangement went about electronization, and just evaluating it, or whether he was referring to something else, I haven't proved a story about it. But as for me as to the minister's position, I was, of course, in close cooperation with the minister, and then there was an intelligence on both sides about how this was lived in the committee's opinion, and there we were completely intervening.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u62	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He didn't surprise me there at all. Maybe it was a little unfair to walk here in answer to words falling from a minister's conversation with a senator last night, late last night, if I recall correctly. But if I have an opportunity to have another conversation about this matter, I'd just like to hear a moment's opinion. A senator, because he was so well aware of how he viewed the gold, this part of local affairs, according to where people watch. We can list these matters, we have the highland park, the airport in Reykjavík, an attempt to legalize the unity of a community and various roads. In fact, in some cases members of Congress are here who would like to intervene in the organizational affairs of Reykjavík to stop the city line, if I have understood the irritation of some senators, and I am not looking here with the back of my head at the head of my head. There's a senator sitting there, he's been found elsewhere. It may have been out of the way, but it's not to deny that very often - and again, I may be pointing to an excellent answer. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir from yesterday, who is horrified by experience at the state level, also - get in the way of the systems, and sometimes get in the way of national violence that must continue in behalf of country and nation. Has a what? A senator some ideas about how to do it--I may not say once for all, but in the big picture--to set matters in such a way that they were at ease and we wouldn't be discussing them so every time and then out of political eyes each and every one, what arrangements would be best used here, so you'll now spend two minutes in such reflections. I'd love to hear them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u63	President. Thank you for the confidence to come up with solutions over this in two minutes. But I welcome the opportunity for this discussion. I think me and what. In view of what I have heard about the use of the language, a senator is quite agreeing on these matters. A senator on these matters. I don't think there's any way to get this together once and for all, no. I don't think it's like that. I think that while there are more than one level of administration in this country, which is well, it will be that way. One administrative level can establish laws that must be followed. But the other one can't. Civil society cannot accept something that the Council must sit and remain, and then there will always be some occurrences where the Allied Lawgiver is looking at some larger picture, and it can somehow come across ideas in smaller units. I think the right of self - determination is to give full respect. I think it's always best because, in certain cases, people, like Iceland, can become a member of the international agreements and then give it some of the right to make decisions, but with open eyes. In this way, it is always best for you to limit some of your rights. I think more powerful and larger rural areas are a big step toward adjusting the balance. I think the increase from state to rural society, or from state funds, i.e. that rural communities gain an increased part of income to care for their important tasks, is also part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u64	President. The issue we're talking about here, the bill to correct the change in planning laws (formation of infrastructure and housing), has been well discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee. Almost all members of the Environment and Transport Committee are included in the majority list. A pilot, a w. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, did well over the committee opinion earlier, so well that I'm no reason to go over it. I'm on it, but I'm on it in advance. The reason for this problem lies in the section Electrocution Committee and an electrical system that consists of variations from the organizational principles of rural society. As we have seen, we went over it and tried as if it were an exampleful one. It would be a very special position, a problem that was revealed, and we would have to respond because our role is to ensure the safety of the people wherever they live, including the rest of the country. with respect to electrical safety. This was the easiest way to reach that goal, and it involves this intervention. From my point of view, it is almost unacceptable, but it is acceptable if I am 100% sure that it does not have precedents and you do not think that somehow one finger has entered the care that will not keep it so well. Several things have taken place since the committee's opinion was written that undermines my confidence that this is so, and perhaps it is close to calling the bill as the highest standard. For example, regarding possible intervention in rural society's decision on the location of airports, the secretary of transportation and rural management requested. During the council, there is a bill on the legal union and bill on a highland park. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was well - aware that there are differing opinions on this, depending on what political view they have on each matter, and this does not simplify the picture. But the red thread in all of these matters is the interest of the council, the will and the aftereffects of the need to intervene in the planning. V.E.G. Environment Minister, but the case is all up to him, moving this bill. He has another matter that involves the self - determination of his community, and that is the bill of a highland park. That's where we're going to pick up the top. Minister and followers, at least The bill and the potential followers of a highland park in any form. This will be done without intervention or at least Communicate with rural society. It's so far from me that I'm going to the highest. Environment Minister, to be putting his finger in the back of the guard so that the hinges can relax a little. But as I mentioned earlier, there are other problems with counsellors, especially the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers. So the thing will be a little bigger than it was supposed to be, or that it may be as big as some imagined it would be. I'm going to let me refer to the conversation as the highest level. The environmental minister meant what. paritaprevir The comical life of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir last night about revised national planning policy at the highest level. A minister first mentioned this matter. In the context of the parts, it's a little hard to visualize, if he doesn't think that there's some sort of example there, that you're testing, you see how this works. That's why, Mr. President, I'm going to request that the case be called into a committee between 2 and 3. I wish and will do so with the Chairman of the Committee to the Supreme Court. Ministers come to meet us and discuss these matters only because I can't support this case and be in the majority house if I am in good faith, as I think the rest of the committee are, that we're saying one thing but a minister sees out of it another. Now I'm not making them shoes that they are, but I think such a doubt is playing on the case that I wish for this. I hope it'll work out as soon as possible, preferably in the morning, and that we can finish it. I need that assurance for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u65	V.E.G. President. Hv. In his talk, a member of the committee discussed the matter. I'd like to ask, then, was there also a debate about the regional system in connection with the main electrical transport system, which is the spring line that is the sheep's ravine line, Dal Louislin, Laxáline, Húsavíkline, Kaposkerline, which would be part of this? I'm not sure if they all had it. Senators recognized the seriousness of the situation that took place in December 2019. This case arises through the campaign group, which, if I recall correctly, offered one 500 suggestions in February/mar 2020 and this is one of the initiative groups, to facilitate administrative management of the large network of electricity transport systems. So that might be the question. It seems that in the context of these issues in Europe, an overwhelming number of European countries have national legislation to ensure national security benefits involved in the transport system of electricity. We who experienced this weather in December 2019 directly, and really how much worse it could have been, there were some lines very close, taking this seriously, and I think this is a good step to ensure the security that everyone's looking for in his life. But this is what I might want to ask about in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm not going to make the shoes that he didn't listen to my speech, but it meant that it was the shock of a large part of the country, the power outage by the end of the year, which is the reason and we covered it thoroughly. The reason for my warning here does not mean that we are going this way to ensure electrical security. Rather, the risk is that we have not provided enough for this as an example for other matters that have come up and have been used here, both by me and my authority. They involve, not electrical security, but the various aspects of rural self-control, and I mention back a high-regional park, a team of members, airports, and road projects, one that has been named, etc. So, no, it's not like we haven't done it thoroughly, and it's certainly not that we on the environment and transport committee do not realize the importance of trying with all our means to prevent the situation that came up around the last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u67	V.E.G. President. What was unusual in December 2019, in the storms that crossed the northern part of the country, was exactly that it was the transport system of electricity, the nation's main transport system, which gave itself, a series of lines. It was not the distribution system that has happened over the decades. It was the large system that did not precede this climate, so it's new. A year ago, along with members of the Independence Party, I requested a report on the infrastructure and national security. This report was published in January, and it highlights - and part of it is the transport system of electricity - that in all the neighbouring countries, this is considered to be part of national security. It refers not only to the electrical power system but to all the major structures that the local community has everything to do with it. There may be Internet security issues, inculversary, bridges, activations, and so on in Sweden, Danir has theirs, and Norwegians have theirs. We're actually doing this, exactly the same way, moving us into this. What about the Keflavour Airport? He is actually under the administration of the State, a team with two rural communities in that area works, so it's just seen by national security. This is exactly the same case, and we have more issues that concern the larger interests of the overall context of things than any individual rural society cannot do against them. Therefore, I would like to consider the neighbors who have been with them and who have developed laws for decades, have been 30, 40, 50, 60 years since they established such laws. I want to ask you why. A senator: If so. A senator and her team oppose the fact that we provide this major national security interest in national legislation in Iceland, which is culminating in the interiors of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u68	Mr. President. I'm gonna wait for what? paritaprevir The son of Trausti Friðbertsson will come up here and read something different and worse in my words than it says, no matter what task he is facing right now. There's nothing in my lawsuit where I'm concerned that this is going beyond our list of legal papers. There's nothing in my lawsuit that deserves some political pill that me and my associates at Resurrection don't recognize our national interest. However, it may well be that I put something in the concept of national interests other than what is bad. Senator of the Independence Party. It's a whole different and long story, and I don't have two minutes left to cross it. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator's interest in a deep conversation about it, I'll welcome him to it at any time. I'm not gonna have any more words on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u69	Mr. President. What we are discussing here is presented to deal with situations that need to be addressed. The storms that crossed the north of the country in December 2019, showed a weakness in the distribution system of electricity, a weakness we knew of, a weakness that has been extremely difficult to deal with and correct in recent years and decades. I think we all know some local examples where trouble of this kind is present. It's, for example. can be pointed to a southwest line that has been rolling in the system for over a decade, and it is never possible to create an agreement between an agent and the people along the line and the people who are taking over the electricity. It's really a sad situation, it's something that needs to be treated. But is this really the way? I'm not going to argue that this is the same scale as the bill that runs here before the council for the implementation of the Southwestern council from a few members of the Independence Party, which is ordered to legalize one act to pass by, of course, the population of rural society would choose over its territory. However, the bill we address here is, as noted in the case of all speakers, the intervention of the rural rights, the intervention of people's right to influence their neighboring community. It is informative to read reviews in this regard. The review of the European Union's society carries e.g. By saying that it is with some people that it accepts in this way. It will be with them in advance that at the General Assembly, understanding will be confirmed that there is no further plans to bring the organizational role from rural society. The relationship recognizes the need for intervention in this specific type of action at this time but at that point. In fact, two of the Union's executives against this joint decision believe that this is an unacceptable example as a way to the organizational and self - determination of rural society. As it happens, the representatives of Reykjavíkurburg in the European Union administration of the European Union, which provides an exact review of the bill, strongly violates the proposal of an electron and an electrical system across a rural line line of boundaries, saying that it is an unacceptable example in which local planning and self-sponsoring forces are weighed. This tells the city's representative nothing about the air because he knows what's hanging in the event of an example. Only in recent years and decades can they look at the Senate records. We have, for example. A few years ago the bill of several senators to take over organizational authority in the Quosain, when some member of the Presidency Committee considered Reykjavíkurburg to have located an art form that they did not approve of near the House of Congress. Then, members of Congress just wanted to respond by isolateing the assembly of cotton into which the State has a organizational authority, 20 m from the Council of Reykjavík, who had lost the organizational authority over this area. However, from the City Hall, there is not much longer route to the airport, which seems to be the bites of those who want to walk in the planning of rural society in the interests of uncertain interests that are often dressed in the uniform of public interest. Naturally, the city of Reykjavík will set up camp here and say that this is not available. Reykjavíkurburg is not just across the hall; it is also pointing out that there are other options. One of them deals with just a matter that has just arrived to the council, which is a law on environmental impact. The bill of their overall re-examination went to the environment and transport committee yesterday, including There is a greater proportion and more facilitated management in larger projects. The process is being carried out in all of these abuses that have caused larger projects, such as southwesternline, to surface repeatedly so that the law code, the general legal device that is to be taken care of, is to improve and could be sufficient to cover these matters. In addition, the State may need to have a word with its construction agencies. There are not very many people who have this problem with the system that is involved in projects extending across rural boundaries. It is the Landsnet that is in the largest electrical power systems, and it is the road in the big transport industry, and both institutions seem to have too many arguments with rural society, even for just part of the projects to be considered. In southwestern, I think the only soul-engineering stone now is one of the pitfalls of the country's society, where the country society is so hard to get the line in the ground, but Landsnet is hard to believe it won't happen. Whether do we need to change the law or allow people to find some way to make peace? Shouldn't Landsnet be able to submit to the will of a community in such cases? I've proposed changes to the bill, which includes removing the part of what is being drawn into an electron committee and electrodynamic organization because the bill contains important changes that can create a warning example in which the planning is moved from the rural areas and can reduce the public's ability to influence organizational policies. By doing this, I am not minimizing the problem we face, but merely suggesting that a route based on a more reliable frame of law be considered. I made this proposal before a week or so, but in the meantime, I heard a word exchange in a Senate hall that made me feel even more convinced that these adjustments are necessary. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson came into this in his first speech, and I'm glad that the Environment and Transport Committee will take the matter into account to hear at the highest level. Minister of the Environment on his position on this matter. I.e., members of the Committee's Committee of Defenses that this is not an exampleful decision, apparently did not reach the minister's ears, in view of his words here yesterday. paritaprevir In a discussion of 705th, national planning, the Brítís Haraldsdóttir gave a vision that she wanted to see a foundation outside electrical lines in a common vision. We have just a number of examples of larger projects that are difficult to come on because of the misunderstanding in many people. Hv. A senator mentioned in answer to his basic wood, such as electric lines, shelters, airports, and ports, but he wondered if it was not tailored to a national planning policy. So the minister responded by claiming to be ready to take up a discussion about this infrastructure but would specifically point to his bill, the bill we're discussing today, in which the issue of an electrical line was being placed in a new form. Then a minister, with president's permission, said: "I don't think there's anything wrong, if it's a bill to be a law, to see what it's like to have the arrangement in this direction. In fact, he says that he does not find it wise to make these changes too fast. But in this counter, Ministers say anything except example. Everything the Minister said yesterday suggests that he sees the change being done here as something that is just not wrong to see how it works, so it can be applied elsewhere. We need to examine this information on an environment and transport committee, and hopefully a minister has overdone himself, although the words are actually quite clear as they were killed yesterday. I've made this account clear to my new proposal, already at 2nd. The point.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he is not simply suggesting to end the matter. If you take on the electronic committee from this particular bill, there may be little left to it. I thought it was the solution. What's the point? A senator to solve these matters? It is true that for ten years, I think, for the Southnes Line 2, it took 15◯20 years with the lines up north, Cruces Line 3 and Holasind Line 3, and the blend line 3 has probably been in the discussion for over 20 years. I thought with the bill, we should try to ensure the security we saw in December 2019 that it is necessary. The weather and what happened then in the network of electricity, which is the major system, cannot be compared to the problems that have occurred in the distribution system, the memory system, which is the driving system. A senator may have been referring to the past. In this, the transport system, the big system, failed for the first time. That's the big change in the case. It was naturally serious. Things happened there about the weather that wasn't expected to happen, or people gave it to them. Therefore, it has been a long wait for us to strengthen the system. You know, about vague interests. First thing. A member of the United States entered Reykjavíkur Airport, but I think it is possible to point out a report by Þorgeir, son of Pálsson regarding the area of Reykjavík and national security related to having a reserve airport for the country, the reason that two airports need to be on the southwestern corner; to ensure safety and then to bring safety to the land. What is unclear about the health - care interests of the country and the importance of a second flight?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u71	A respectable president. The first question was about what remains in the bill if my proposal is made. The nature of the issue is that what turns to an electrical committee and an electrical system falls from the bill and the rest of the building point, which is one of the bill, and certainly is not as important as the other. But this is a suggestion that I simply propose because the case is not within our reach. The Icelandic corporation union agrees with it on grounds that seem to me to have smiled last night. I know why. A senator, who is a multifold environ from a prime station to tear down the planning of certain societies, may not be as hot in it as the individual here says the planning of the rural community is. But he must understand that attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u72	V.E.G. President. I think it's a good thing for the discussion to come up with the views we've come up with that issue. The basic and large picture of the case is what the neighbors, far beyond our own, have done. A small number of European countries do this in the same way as we do. All North Europe established legislation to ensure this infrastructure by 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago, i.e. wherever you look, if you look at the rest of the Northern countries, Britain, the Netherlands, and what you think. So we're trying to get a complete view of the movie. It's just a fraction of that in itself. I have personally spoken of the fact that we, sitting here, must be taken into account that we establish legislation that ensures the most important security interests of society's citizens so that individual communities cannot do anything against them. That's the vision I've had on this. How can we compare highland national parks with the nation's major national security concerns? I don't understand that discussion here tonight. Why don't we trust our national security communities in the big movie? Are we not trying to establish Internet security legislation? Are we not trying to strengthen the electrical power system so that it is here that we decide how we are doing with it? Isn't that really what it is? A secretary of transportation puts forth his bill on air travel; to ensure basic security interests involved in these matters? Besides, it's only fine if that's what it's all about. A senator came in here tonight is the Pirata's policy in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u73	A respectable president. What can happen when this bill is proposed is that decisions are moving further away from the public and that the interests of the rural society will be replaced by the interests of an executive who might be at peace with their communities if they took care of it. I think that's something I should be able to fuck with every class's policy to protect. Perhaps it is proper to underline, because I feel that somehow it is in the mouth. A senator says that we disagree about the need to ensure electricity over the country, that we are not at all. But I want us to make sure that we don't break like that. 78th par. The Constitution on the Skeptic Rights of the Civil Society on the way. Based on the way the lndependence Party representatives act on the basics of its contents, I ask myself, " Is it possible that the Independence Party's policy is to push aside my partner's self - determination rights when it's convenient? '
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u74	President. I'm just wondering what. A senator is reaching to the limit when he is beginning to interpret the mind and will of the European Union's executives, and he says here: agreeing with a member of the European Union on grounds that changed last night. It says, a respectable president, with your permission, and perhaps a proper comment. A senator also comments on a subject that is not yet established: A member of the Icelandic community has in the early stages of working on the modeling of a change in therapy, a seat in a service group appointed by the minister. For this reason, there is no reason for much material remarks to the bill, although this review provides the right attitude of the relationship on key elements of the bill. Then there are some major reasons why the European Union of Iceland feels that the disproportionateness of organizational authority is acceptable in many, many teams. Now, it's the Separator as a dog. A senator of his wisdom, or perhaps just in a political gladiator, decides to state that people in a town are involved. I think we should be careful only about how we talk about people who are not in this chamber and who interpret their words. And, yes, this is a significant deviation and emphasis is that when discussing the bill at the Council, understanding that there is no plan for further steps, which is exactly what we do. I feel somewhat inferior at the moment. A senator, at the counsellor's office, though some Minister's office who doesn't even have a seat in the Council, has some opinion of something. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We're the lawgiver, aren't we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u75	A respectable president. Yes, I will admit that an individual may have been overexhausted in the years. [[Up front.]] However, the European Union emphasizes that this bill is a major deviation, and in view of this, it has to be confirmed that there is no further plans for this direction. What some ministers say is important when the alleged luminary is the minister of the case party, which is, for example, the case. A fellow historian of the case, who has arranged for this committee opinion, but this has not returned to the minister. Either the Council must utter a word or a word. Senator speaking to the Minister. I think this discussion may be more relevant on the environment and transport committee in a direct conversation with the minister where I heard from earlier talks. A senator would have missed the minister's discussions and what. paritaprevir The comics of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, where those words fell. And we'll expect to hear the Minister explain at the next opportunity on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u76	President. I sure missed last night's discussions, but the Internet is an amazing thing. There are some information that can be researched, including the following articles. These. Hv. One senator says that either a word of what the committee can hardly say more strongly, as a matter of course, is essential. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson and we discussed earlier that we'd made the knot together, or having a conversation with the Minister. I'm going to allow, I, the President, to reflect on the third possibility: that perhaps a member of the administrative body here does not interpret the minister's words completely a hundred percent. However, it is a clear conversation that we should take to the highest level. Minister in another context. I'm just gonna say again, "Hitv." A minister can have any idea he wants. I don't know if there's a description. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson wants the highest. Environment Minister is the right one, but I know that I agree to the Allegis, the Department of Guidance, the Committee on Environment and Transport, is what counts. I'd like to, Mr. President, ask what. A senator on matters that are somewhat related to me, for I also noticed that a complete review of the environmental impact laws might be sufficient to control the problems that have developed on the development of electrical transport systems. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: How? Because I came to write that law, I've been awake and asleep in it for over two years, but only scratch my mind about how these laws should be the answer to this problem. It would be nice to hear it from what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u77	A respectable president. Right away. A senator has begun to make the shoes so that I had not been interpreting the words of a 100 percent correctly, when I read the words of a minister since yesterday, I don't think we could go any further with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u78	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in organizational laws in terms of infrastructure and other factors at the same time. Environment and Transport Committee manager, i.e. The committee's opinion was well explained earlier. The lamp light has been particularly directed to one aspect of this bill, i.e. the infrastructure and the electrical cable. The origin of the bill is attributed to a great storm in December 2019, as has been observed at the end of the year. Councilmen. The storm caused much damage, and society was destabilized. In the areas that were worst in the north and west of the country, the gang was paralyzed by transportation, and the job life was lost. There was a lot of disturbance in the transport and distribution systems of electricity, which, of course, affected communication and communication with the outside world became reality for a while in large areas. This was a hard lesson for those who are older than 20th, let's say, may still remember, but we haven't had that much experience for as long. Following this, a group or group of six advisers were appointed to evaluate and possibly find ways to promote the infrastructure of electricity and telecommunications and telecommunications and to speed up and speed up the change in rural management plans for their main organisations and to facilitate the implementation of a number of rural partners or more than one. It was observed in the work group that over the last few years, significant delays have been observed in the preproduction process of electrical transport systems, particularly the main transport system responsible for the Landsnet. Mr. President. Farmers, small and medium - sized, are busy in many things, and at times organizational matters delay the development of individual aspects of organizational procedures. It may be that there is an inunification of individual projects and options and options that can be considered within rural governments and among the population. In addition, experience shows that the risk of delays is, of course, increasing proportion to the number of rural partners involved. It's wrestling. For example, electrons in the main transport systems of electricity exist in more than one rural society, which may require changes in the main structure and may include a number of rural areas and require adjustment of the main systems in each of them and also a permit to be released in each rural society. This was the subject and the main subject of the bill, which is based materially on the proposals of the recruitment group, which is about the opening of the options and permissions to work on a special infrastructure that takes up territory across the rural limits in order to facilitate and speed up the development of electrical energy. That's what counts. Such a organization is expected to be in the hands of a committee that would be represented by a state and representatives of a community. It must be granted to appoint a administrative committee. It's allowed. This committee has been referred to as an electron committee, and it has representatives in the rural areas, the rural areas to which the decision for the subject is to be reached. The Committee also conducts a representative of the Agency to ensure professional knowledge and link to the assessment of environmental impacts. It is appropriate to have a selection procedure that will only be carried out if requested by the recruiter. The executioner's request for an electrical command should be submitted early and immediately prior to the preparation phase and prior to the procedure of environmental assessment. This electro-line committee, referred to earlier, is aimed at granting implementation for the transport system in accordance with the system programme that supervises the implementation and implementation of the electrical system. If the Commission does not establish a common conclusion, it is suggested that the case should be referred within a particular period of time to the Environment and Resource Minister, who will decide what to do, what conditions to be carried out in the Agency's terms and options. Mr. President. In the Environment and Transport Committee, the bill was given a detailed coverage, I'll tell you. There were 16 reports from rural society and institutions. Many of them were quite positive and felt that their plans were for improvement in many ways. But it was not something, as we have seen in speeches. Senators. Although proposals for an electronic committee that works for a specific work ethic are largely different from the principle of organizational law, the European Union's European Union has a legal obligation. The relationship emphasizes that at the Generals' review, understanding in an irreversibly reflects that there is no further plan to bring the organizational role from the rural community, the design role being one of the cornerstones of rural rights, almost the sacred heres. It has also been observed that this is not the case in the words of Reykjavík, and within the Union, where the representatives of the city of Reykjavík returned a specific account. Reykjavíkurburg believes that these changes are based on a lack of material evidence and are not available, and this is the same way as it is a matter of self - determination in a rural society that, as we have seen, is an example of caution. This was the position of Reykjavíkurburg and the Union, but in the conduct of the Committee it was successful to establish a change in the manner of an authority who led the case with smoothness, a change sufficient to an acceptable conclusion and a broad agreement, I allow myself to say, but it is strictly required in the committee's section that the regulations of the bill are clearly limited that materials, consist only fix the electrons in the transport system. The law does not reach others, such as transportation, so it certainly does not set a precedent for further limitation of local planning. In this, we believe that further temptations of the government are being made to make their way into the sacred areas of the countryside. Last night, there was a debate in a councilroom that was created at the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister has recommended a synopsis proposal for a review of national planning policy for the years 2015-226. The words of a minister in the contrary could be understood that the same arrangement could be considered in terms of more initiatives than we are considering here regarding this change in organizational law now and that it was the roads, electric lines, and so on, that at least these points should be carried out further instructions of the State, or even that, as a minister said, at times had been discussed, that they should be heard under the direction of the State. Then perhaps we'll be discussing it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbertsson's remains included in some of the factors that might allow national security factors. Of course, these points need to be discussed in the right field and under the right criteria. It is essential that the minister's position and opinions in such matters be clearly identified, whether there is something underlying on this matter. It is not good and inappropriate for such important interests to be introduced and proposed and even spoken under a rose or in a vague way, not when such important things are spoken of in the management system. It is well - known and not necessary to attract large and challenging tasks that have led many rural communities to slow and delayed in recent years, even large national interests, resulting in emotional damage and delay in development. When a minister makes a comment, although the word is a free, Icelandic wonderful language that offers a multitude of shades, about such delicate issues that depend on local independence, it is only hoped that some people will react and want to explain whether there are possibly fish underneath a stone. However, for the council there is a matter where there is a very good opportunity to approach the discussion on these important issues in a natural and objective way. I'll give you a bill on the environmental assessment of performances and plans and the aforementioned Parliamentary arrangement for revised national planning policies. That's where we're supposed to go with open eyes, and especially with an open mind. I support that the case will be called back to the committee, discussed with the highest level. Minister and sewing on these controversial factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u79	V.E.G. President. I wanted to ask you about work at the highest level. The environment and transport committee in this issue, as I'm reading the Committee's opinion, and whether there has been no discussion of the regional transport system, which is actually a reference to the part of the transport system that is not considered to be the main transport system. We have the main transport system, which is the based circle, and then we have the regional system, which is the high-level system, which is part of the transport system from the population circle. As we have seen in this discussion, it is as if it did not enter the text of the matter. On the other hand, it may be helpful to return to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to get to the point. In what I've read in the documents, I can't see any mention of the regional system. It's the system that went very badly during the 2019 December, Adventiststorm, and it really needs to be taken into account in the system, that's very important in the context of the parts. Regarding the bill as such, the electro-line committee and one line fixation license, as stated in 2 mg. Twenty-eight. To correct the problem, the road structure can bring a request to fix the road in view of traffic safety. Even now it is authorized to reduce accidents and increase traffic security. So it's a road law. Then there's what I've mentioned tonight about Keflavík Airport. It's under a government commission that local communities have access to, perhaps only linked to what we're discussing with the electrical system or the electronic committee. What do you think? A senator's testimony is that there are other examples in the administration or in legislation from the council, which follow the direction we speak here?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the son of Friðbertsson. In the Committee representatives were a little preoccupied with this point regarding community communication, but the regional factors came, as I recall, very little to the story. It is absolutely true that they are likely to be taken into consideration, since they smell the same way. For other aspects of the infrastructure, like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé entered his speech, sits in packs, and the government is not at the same table, that is not equal in that language. One party can make laws and one person can not. So this must be done in a very good manner, and it must be done in the right place. Those things must be negotiated between the two parties. Surely we have these precious, vital structures that we need to strengthen more than we have ever done. Experience shows that we need to do so. It is not just roads, ports, and airports around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u81	Mr. President. Then I suggest. A senator discuss these matters with the regional transport system of the Committee. I think it's full need for them to be discussed because what was unusually bad in the storm was that the built-in, large system was damaged. But what also happened was that the sheep's ravines line, Dalvíkíkínin, Húsavíkíkíkínin, Laxállínline, and Kopaskerline all fell out because of a storm, and many went very bad. Perhaps the greatest damage to this system and these lines was the devastating effects of the December weather, which we often call the Adventist Storm. Then I just wanted to ask. A member of Parliament: What, then, is his view of national security to ensure the main infrastructure of the country we have discussed here? I entered the road law earlier, taking into account traffic safety, and Cheflavík Airport, and its role in the transport system of the country. How are we supposed to do this? Should we look to the neighbors as I described earlier tonight? The Northern countries, Britain, Germany, the Netherlands, almost all Europe has this in its administration and is passed on by law from the local council. Where does that say why? A senator and his group, the Conspiracy, to ensure the nation's greatest security? Then, perhaps while doing what is suggested, let us consider, such as the discussion of the Tech Forest and the delay there. We've talked about the area of Reykjavík, the Medevac, his role as an alternate airport. How are we to ensure the national security concerns so that individual societies do not work against them? Watch your step. A senator explained his position and his party to that matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-04-14-78.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A second answer from Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I mean, with the regional system, I'm not very well at home. We've studied the reviews. The review of Landsnet comes, for example. nothing like that. Since there has been a little discussion about increasing the volume of the distribution system, we may not have discussed this much. For basics and national security, this is an important factor. Hv. A senator asks for my opinion and my company. In the United States, we stress the importance of respecting our own decision - making rights and the independence of our community. The cooperation between the state and rural society is important in many areas and on the basis of infrastructure as well. I think the task of the coming career is to settle over it in a very careful way and discuss it. We are present in a lump of bills and possibly primes that depend on our joint funds and the environment of the one we need to take good care of and make good of the knots. It will be increasingly urgent that the work is done in a progressive, professional manner.
