ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u1	With letters, dated December 6, 2021, the president has requested this, as shown by number 8 of the 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, to the budgetary committee, are covering the reports of the State Reconsistencies, which make up budgets for the first nine months of 2021 C.E., and a review of the state account on the basis of 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u2	To answer these questions: Economic and economic ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, travel, business and cultural minister, education and child - care ministers, social and workforce minister and science, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u3	President. The groups telling of stability in the campaign took their first task of setting up the greatest Minister of Iceland's History, and only the party leaders were allowed to keep their positions, while others were trashed with no meaningful explanations, neither to the nation nor to the councilmen themselves, apparently. These changes are more likely to result in a lack of confidence in a minister than in professional judgment or in any case, it is clear that the interest or experience of a minister of the scheme is of little importance. So it's understandable, Mr. President. And most strangely, the order of Jón Gunnarsson to the office of Minister of Justice, which is simply impossible to understand. V.E.G. Also, the minister of finance was not very clear about the answers to the Morning newspaper when he announced an order there, which he said, by permission of the president: Jón comes from the nation's largest district with the independence party. He has been a senator since 2007 and served as a minister for a brief period of time. He is also the secretary of the class, and he has a strong authority within the party and is well along in this regard. That's not a great recommendation, Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of justice seems to have simply received his office because he is such an impenetrable independent. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The minister of finance, on the other hand, is 18 independent. The minister was given nine weeks to consider his choice, so the decision may be best. Secretary of finance has been checked out. So I simply want to know and ask the highest. Financial Minister: Is Jón Gunnarsson the best Justice Minister for the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u4	A respectable president. That was often the case. I'd like to start by talking about the stability that has come in. The government is concerned about economic stability, government stability, and stability only for people and businesses. It has nothing to do with whether we can make changes in the Board of Directors. Let us not worry, though, that it does not have the exact same stability for politicians or other members of the Council because it is far more important that the government supports the interests of the government and the needs of society. Now only on the Party of Independence. I guess we're 17 but we're not 18 but I'm sure we're at least 18 18 Relatives at the council. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm asked if Jón Gunnarsson is the best Minister of Justice for Independence. He's at least. I think very good ministers, and I have reasoned that he has a very strong democratic authority, both from elections and from the members of the party as a secretary. He has experience involving many of the legal classes involved in the Ministry of Justice. In particular, I mention all the public defenses and the experiences he brings there. But so has he been for a long time at a council, and he has previously served as a minister. So, yes, I have to say now that I think I have chosen a good man to appoint and the council agreed to have a good Minister for the Independence Party at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u5	President. I'm sorry if I've misjudged lndependence, because these numbers have been a lot off lately, perhaps more difficult to pay attention to. But I asked if Jón Gunnarsson was the best Minister of Justice for the Independence Party, and it may not be surprising that a person asks because there is very little evidence to support these Councilmen's decisions, and it was especially surprising to observe that the Ministers themselves came from the mountains when they were appointed for office. But I find it interesting to pray to the highest. Minister to explain how he manages to have full confidence, sounds me, to the highest degree. Ministers of Justice but still only trust him for 18 months, especially in view of the fact that the Justice Ministers of the Independence Party have had the most difficulty in passing out an entire terms. So I'm asking if this Ministry doesn't deserve to be modest. Why Only 18 months?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u6	A respectable president. It may spring from the problem that we have only so many capable members of the Independence Party that we need to divide people's tasks. Here it was suggested that Hafsteinsdóttir Haffsteinsdóttir, the new tip of Independence in the South, be replaced by Jón during this ideal period. It was no more complicated than that. Jón would have been all right with me for serving as a minister longer, but this is what it is now. When people are being assigned to their seats and assigned to different assignments, problems can arise. But I think it just worked out very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u7	Mr. President. I can't resist in the light of the words here, first the highest. Secretary of finance thinks that independence could be at least 18 or more here at the council, wondering how the highest power would be. A minister defines lndependence. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Because I've thought it was the highest. Ministers and their companies are fine hunters, as the examples prove, will be willing to escape the ideals when men come into this category or at least. has entered office. Aren't the last real independents long gone, so they're not 18, I think, Mr. President, but no one at the council today? I don't know, I wondered. But it's got to come to the top of my question. Minister. It focuses on three major matters that the government represented or now proposed at the beginning of a council: First, a government contract, second, the Government Constitution, and the third, the budget. There seems to be an amazing relationship between these three fundamental issues, which, however, appear at about the same time. And despite the fact that the government took a very long time to determine how it would continue to work together, there is quite extraordinary details unknown to all of this, and the context does not exist. I'm going to try to determine the question to the highest level. Ministers and ask him: What will be the cost of the proposed changes in recruitment and to some extent being implemented by a minister's order without the movement of government and government? What will be the cost of these changes in Iceland's Management Board?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u8	A respectable president. Hv. A senator believes that there has been a change from the ideals of independent men over time. I can't agree with that, but it's gonna be somebody's guess. That's at least not that we have much to report from the council or from the members of the Independence Party. It matters. It's important that you stay with them, and it's important to keep members of the council if you want to implement your ideals. This suggests that it is difficult to grasp the context of the Constitution, the Constitution, and how financial laws support both. I must say, I feel that much has been said in this subject, which is somewhat Spanish, especially in view of the fact that these are groups that have been working together since 2017 to extend cooperation. In itself, it could be said that it was not necessary to pass the government covenant at that time. It would have been possible to take longer than that, but among the things we decided to do, except to bring the government contract, it was a yes, to jump up the Council, and this is a question for the cost. I don't trust myself to put a number behind it, but it's clear that by starting a new ministry, more than one, the cost will be at which he can run at hundreds of millions when more than one agency is collected. This may well be the result, but I expect that this can be done in a better way when a Parliamentary decree on this subject is submitted to the General Assembly, i.e. There will not be a new Ministry without a synopsis proposal. But I feel that the cost is that we should put together the entire budget and all the work that the State does.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u9	Mr. President. It's important to have a tail, says the highest. Minister, to carry out his ideals. Have the Independence Party carried out their ideals in recent years? Is it not important to have a measure of support in order to appoint men in office? Has it not been the approach of the Independence Party these past few years? Even with the least being followed in the history of the party, they have at least had access to the carnivores and to appoint men in office. Or is this not the government that, in a few years, has increased the number of government employees by 9,000 and the number of workers in the private sector over something similar, has vastly enlarged the booths and increased national expenditures and now presents some dramatic changes in Iceland's Management Board of Directors at the highest level. The secretary of finance has no idea what will cost him?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u10	A respectable president. I may be mistaken that following in order to implement ideas is important. I'll just think about it again. There may be no context. But I didn't think so. I thought this was going to hold hands. [[Up front.]] I think we've been comfortable putting our work in the court of voters for the past decade, actually, and we've been doing pretty good since then. Examples are shown, e.g. in the last act, if we call the election a complete ideal, that the government has been well supported. Since the three major political parties are members of the council, I would like to take a deeper discussion on this occasion. But the cost, the exact cost of setting up new schemes, will be discussed here when the Council decision is made. [[The president calls.]] But I'm just saying in advance: There are hundreds of millions of costs to be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u11	President. As soon as I congratulate my names on my new office as my highest office. Social and employment minister I would like to point out that just recently, I've got an amazing number of phone calls and mails from desperate people who are looking forward to not having dinner for Christmas. Those who do not have food also worry about how to give Christmas to their children. We are an amazing community, and it is difficult for people to walk in order to provide food help with their children at their side. But not everyone can. There is a large group in their homes isolated with underlying diseases that are unable to sustain themselves. And what's strange is that they can't apply anywhere for help. We have an example from this hall that a remarkable number of people have been helped because of Covid-19. But one group has been left entirely behind and has not received a cent, and there are older citizens, our older people completely left behind. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs: Is he on the agenda to handle these matters? Is it within his plan now for Christmas all paying, tax and inaccessible, as it was last, and then for all, disability, singleness, and older people? Or there is nothing more than a miserable one of the percentages that one after another has proclaimed, which, quite unbelievable generosity, has been 1%, 1,500 years. and taxes get better? Surely we can do better than that. Or isn't the government going to do anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u12	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for the month-to-day report to me in a new office. We know that we have work to do when it comes to improving the terms of those who have least in the community and the national government covenant. There I would say that we have special plans to reorganize the system that turns toward microenergy pensioners, but we also have a project to do even better than it has already been done to older people. Of course, there were steps during the last terms, such as whiskers. A senator knows well, with special additional support and legislation from the Council. But to those questions. A senator will turn to me. Hv. A senator wants to know if this Christmas is going to be all paid for, as it was last year. This was done for microenergy and rehabilitation candidates, they got 50,000 bucks. last year's remuneration in addition to this traditional December, which comes as a payment every year. This was certainly one payment that occurred as a response to the Covid-19 pandemic. It has already been arranged in December for the elderly and for the poor, but we have not been looking for any payment this time. But I would also like to stress that we need to look at this whole system, and it will be my priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers give me answers, and they disappoint me immensely. He's pointing to a monopoly, a Christmas bonus for social security. The highest Christmas bonus is about 47,000 bucks, by taxes it's $30,000. But he doesn't mention it if it gets damaged. Most of the people who get a penny from a pension fund, women mostly, quarters from a pension fund, get none of this Christmas bonus, not a nickel. I know it in my own skin because I was in that situation with 1,500 bucks. 1000 k. ... fora Christmas bonus. What kind of violence is this? Why don't we stop this once and for all? He must realize that the only thing that comes back to this group is a lack of tax and money. You can go to it. I ask him, will he fight to make sure that the ones on the lowest score are getting 120,000 bucks? paid and paid $35,000. on taxes - it would be impossible to fight to stop paying taxes to these individuals and let them get 275,000 dollars. paid off? Is it overpowering?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you again for the question. I want to answer this, but we also need to re-evaluate how to deal with older people after the changes made in 2016 or 2017, I don't remember what year it was. I will use myself to try not only to simplify the system so that it will provide better management for those mentioned between the hands and that the system will seize those who lose their legs or cannot support themselves for some reason but at the same time that people who have the opportunity to support themselves in part can do so. That's my goal, and I'll work on it, and I'll hope to have a good cooperation with members of this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u15	A respectable president. When Covid struck, the highest weight was reached. The secretary of finance stressed that a budget with the State responsibilities would give one of the greatest support. Especially was the ability of banks to lend a loan to follow through on this. There were indications that it would be better for the government to come directly to those in need and in a hurry. The banks would turn a loan brace into an apartment market at times of risk and an imbalance would arise. It was answered in a way that asked the end of the game. What was the end of it? The economic recovery rate rose faster than predicted, but under the surface, there has been an enormous imbalance. Almost no bridge loans were given, but unbelievably much money has leaked into apartment markets and other property markets rather than advance to new investments. Last night, Iceland's Summit Penitentiary Commission declared that there is an increasing system hazard due to rising prices for the apartment and the mortgage debt. The increased risk may be the result of payment, especially for the first buyers and the mortgage ratios. The late bank is concerned that increasing the number of property increases will further increase the debt that puts an even greater strain on the value of the apartment. A respectable president. Real value has increased by 50% above that of people in the last 30 years. Long-term policy has been virtually zero in this category. Then there was a direct action that exaggerateed the problem. As a result, we are entering a heart-to-heart conversation with high inflation and very high real value, but no response comes from the government. The only answer is that this is also taking place in a international Bible. Tells you the highest. Ministers really that the government should have no access to the nation's largest economic and collective issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u16	A respectable president. If only with regard to the government's list of actions, the loans, and the other actions that we presented here at the council, I have to say that the result of this financial package has been good for the board. We're looking at economic activities, new jobs, etc. that we have managed the problem, and even if at the beginning of the epidemic we have had ideas that a government-reliance loan might be useful, which has not since proved necessary, I don't think we've been on the wrong track. We were doing what we could according to the circumstances we knew them. Then we returned with more direct support. On the basis of the housing market, I have to first say that the measures that have been tested now and that have been useful are attributable to the groups that now work together. Conversion of the overall housing system, share loans, these are the new systems we've taken in order to meet the needs of a housing market. We hear from the labor force, however, that getting property and starting a building has failed. Last night, I had a meeting where it came out. Last night, I was able to hear directly from the labor movement representatives that there was difficulty in getting assigned and starting a building on the apartment in the general apartment system, despite the guarantee of financial security. That's why there's some blockage in the pipes that I think we need to take action. However, there is reason to be concerned about these warnings from the Federal Bank. However, I have to say, if we look into the historical context of the facility market today, compared with that, for example. Which meant when you were going into the housing market and had to take 20% of the loss on the houseletters on the first day of the housing change, then we're in a good place today, with relatively modest housing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers, but I hear that I suspect that this debt would be hung over by the local community, was well justified. We always talk about the lands. How does the government get into this category with a long-term plan in cooperation with the communities? I'm going to draw attention to the fact that in the budget we're going over for the next year, we're putting as much money in the additional inflation of the government's prices as we're putting into the general apartment system, as much as it is due to inflation. I'll have to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Is there no interest in increasing contributions into this system so that we can get a proper social housing in this country, which has been shown to provide anchor for the housing market, and you can go into cooperation with your rural society to solve this problem that you constantly address on another administrative level?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u18	A respectable president. In itself, I didn't mention the locals in my answer. I was simply referring to the fact that I hear from those who are building up in the general apartment system that it's not working well to get weights to build up. It's just since yesterday. Of course, you want success primarily. I'm not interested in being in a car at the local government level, but who is more responsible for not overstepping plans to support social housing. We've been very clear. We've created the law frame here, we've secured good funding, funding has not been missing, and indeed about a third of the housing being constructed to support these systems today. However, the housing market is a measure of concern, as is its recent concern, that housing prices in Iceland are completely out of the picture of building costs. There is also concern, and there is a specific market failure that we need to observe. We need to consider those who have difficulty getting into the housing market, but we also need to keep an eye on all the others who have entered the market. [[The president calls.]] It is relevant to these indications of increased debt and efforts to restrain inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u19	A respectable president. A discussion of the course of prime minister reminded me of a rabid talk being held here at the council over five years ago, an excellent speech completely pure, and if I didn't know any better, it might be thought to have been composed, part of it, and then brought to the National Assembly Reunion, right before the election. The speaker was the highest. High school minister of Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, then a civilian anti-continent. It said, by permission of the President: ▪ In the community, there is a continuing and deep disagreement on the present fishing system. The wealth that truly is the nation, we all understand it so, simply does not provide enough valuables in a common fund, and a few families have grown enormously over a very long period of time. In fact, no one likes the system the way it is except those who make a lot of money from it and then those political groups who have endeavored to protect the privileges, existing government groups. In addition, the senator discussed an offer on markets as part of a mixed route to the distribution of quathan. The vast majority of the nation, these say repeated observations, feel that an unreasonable price is paid for access to the resource. In view of the words I quoted, it must not be taken to the highest degree. a sea manager will keep his word about the privileged system that is covered by her team of colleagues, breaking it up and giving him additional fees where he would be included in the solution? I'm not asking a long-lasting stop on sustainable solutions or green steps, with all due respect, but ready and checking. A minister will keep his word to break up this privileged system of cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question and for repeatedly reviewing my excellent speech from about the year on the fishing system. I think we all realize that the guiding light of all of us here, in terms of an important fundamental system that the fishing system must always be public, must always be the benefit of the community of all but not the few, there must always be the benefits of all living things, not aggressive innovation. In fact, in the government covenant, I am commissioned to lay a foundation for a new committee. And if many may say, Wait, is there any more that need? Is there a need for more committees in this sector? I'd like to review and mention a committee that was created here by the then marine dignitary and agricultural minister now. A senator, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who served as my daughter in 2017, discussed the challenges and opportunities in the seas and related branches and was concerned with evaluating the fishing system, while offering national benefits as well as offering suggestions to maximise our potential for further success as well as the social reconciliation of this article. I take this assignment very seriously, and I expect to call it the table, which has varied views and hopes for sleep. A senator and his political movement will suggest that they do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u21	A respectable president. I have to say, the highest. Five years ago, a sea chief was faster than the one held here and now. I asked if there was anything to do with his word. Yes, I will start a committee, was the answer. The formation of a committee of the great conflict that has split the nation over the years, for decades, is not a policy. It's just not a policy. We know the problem. He is that they abuse what amount of money they charge to access the resource. I'm gonna repeat the question, is there a possibility of breaking up the system? Is there an option to install a powerful resource directive in a constitution, where the temporary binding of contracts is at the end of the clearance? Is it possible for us to correct this injustice and increase our reconciliation so that we can approach others and upbuilding projects rather than always be stirring up a system that should, at all times, be more at greater peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u22	A respectable president. As mentioned in my earlier answer, the project of the committee referred to here is not only discussing how we can be more effective in the fishing system but also how to increase the transparency of our business in sea transport, and particularly among the largest companies in the country. That's a big deal. That's what concerns this social reconciliation. A respectable president. Because this was given a constitution of resources, I believe it is very important and, in fact, long ago, time to restore the constitution of a highly resource-sponsored constitution and again trust that those of us here in a council hall who are interested in such provisions will be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u23	V.E.G. President. I have a report of the health care minister's status on the SAD for a pandemic Covid-19 and this is in accordance with the regulations of the PAD to address the development of the pandemic. The epidemic's development. He has been with us for a long time, and has become quite long, we can say, and has set his mark on our daily lives here and in all the world and now for two years. The effects and consequences do not need to be varied. In this country, on February 28, 2020, the first transmission was detected. Since then, some 19,000 people have been infected by Covid, and about 550 have required hospitalisation. Less than 100 have required intensive care and 35 have sadly died from Covid. Of these 550, 220 have required hospitalisation since June 30. However, the epidemic has gone to waves, and since its beginning, the main focus has been to keep a number of infectious, normal, to control, to protect vulnerable groups, and to protect the health system through these waves. That is true throughout the world. We are watching this fight in this way. The defenses have basically included extensive sample collections, more intensive transmission of infectious diseases, the insulation of contaminants, and the isolation of infected together with the meeting limit and a number of contaminant measures, both within the country and on the border. General vaccination against Covid has been successful. It's measured in the format of statistical data. Although not fully protected against transmission, vaccination provides good protection against illness and reduces the risk of hospitalisations. Today, about 90% of the nation's 12 - year - old and older adults are vaccinated. As time passes, protection against vaccination becomes apparent. That's the information we're getting confirmed. Therefore, we have now begun this booster or third pass, a third dose, with a booster dose of more than 121,000 persons 16 years of age and older being given such a booster dose. The Norwegian statistics show that the booster vaccination provides protection against transmission of infectious diseases. It provides a powerful defense against sickness. The 14 day incidence of hospitalisation per 1,000 people is approximately 1.1 for those who have received a booster dose and is less than seven times higher in those who are fully vaccinated and the incidence of hospitalisation is more than 40 times higher in those who are not vaccinated, i.e. not fully vaccinated, given the booster dose. These are the numbers in this. Furthermore, the success of scientists at the University of Iceland shows that protection from infection after a booster dose is 90% higher than after the two doses. It is conclusive that the effect decreases and is now being said to be somewhere between five and seven months and most of the recommended booster dose will be vaccinated in February / February of the following year. If we go only to the timelines from this summer and the memo sent by a psychiatrist to the health minister and was guided by the latest decision on the rules in force, then evolution can be read carefully. Let's start on June 26, because the wave we're going through began there, you might say. Then all meeting restrictions were canceled within the country. It was about that. one month until a significant increase in the number of infections, and thereafter the pressures on the health system increased with serious illness and hospitalisations. Meeting restrictions were then tightened on July 25, with the number limit of 200 people, masking, and other measures. This resulted in results in the scales we are looking at. On September 3, rapid testing was set up, and then we began to increase the event and aim for 500 people to cross - references. On September 15, more efforts were made, and the general number of restrictions was made for 500 people, and the opening of the restaurant was extended to midnight, 24. The required number of people at these rapid test points, if they had a rapid diagnostic test, was transferred to 1,500 people. With these changes, and the statistics could then be viewed, the number of infected people increased slightly, leaving 20 to 40,60. Then an even greater reduction was launched, and it went into effect on October 20th. Then we had 2,000 general mass restrictions, ablation of a mask and a prolonged opening period, but only about one hour, until one after midnight. But it will be very clear if you look at the numbers in this case and the next few days the number of infections increased rapidly. I think it's a good thing to watch this timeline from this operation, how sensitive the epidemic is, if I can put it that way, before the operation, if you watch the infective numbers. The situation on the hospital's numbers got worse at the same time. It's somehow that 2% of criteria seem to be completely maintained by those who are infected and who need to be committed. I see that time is just gone, and I'm not halfway about what I was going to say. This is a very impressive, respectable president. I may have more time next time, but I'll listen attentively and try to grab something for the two minutes I'll get at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u24	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the disease control report. I feel like the highest. Ministers are very effective at examining the figures and statistics, comparing the diseases and actions, and of course we should try to learn a lesson from them. It is important to inform the Parliament about the situation and how the government values it and the need for action. Today, the epidemic has continued since March 2020. Last year, on March 16, the first treatments took place, so the struggle has certainly lasted longer than we expected at first. The pressures on our frontline have been almost constant ever since. So there is no joke as the next epidemic becomes colder because of the pressures, and now another wave is riding. We were expecting members of the Northern Parliament to meet with the Council of the Presidency of the Northern Country, next week up to the country. Yesterday the meeting was announced electronically as a result of increasing numbers of infected and disease prevention in the Norwegian countries. The developments in the countries around us need to be monitored closely, for it is unlikely that we will avoid more infections than they will if nothing is to be done. In this long struggle with the virus, we have always had the best outcome when counseling a psychiatrist. I hope to the highest. A medical minister who has recently accepted this important assignment agrees with us in the United States that it is the very best thing to consider advice from a psychiatrist. We do not know how long we will have to take some type of action, but it may take longer than that. There are different ways in which people, institutions, and jobs meet and need to be viewed. It would be a good mixture, then, to the highest. At the same time, a minister would seek counsel from a diseased physician, and at the same time there would be a debate at the council about why they are needed and how the legislature and financial resources need to be handled. A discussion would, for example, be discussed. taking on some activities that may be extremely burdensome for one industry but less for others. Some innkeepers, however, did not have to shut down despite much comparable activities. Better information and discussion are needed. The Parliament must always respond with financial support when action evidently becomes a major burden to people and businesses. One of the reasons for resorting to burdensome antiseptic measures is that our health - care system is not equipped to deal with the virus. In many other countries, more than one area of health resistance is affected, and more intensive care measures have increased. It cannot be said that the same trend took place here in the country. Whether the illness is because of a pandemic or for other reasons, the householder must be able to deal with sick individuals. We do not know how long we will have to live through this uncertainty, but we have seen from the beginning of the epidemic that the Landspians cannot bear the added pressures that the virus has created. Therefore, measures at the hospital have been delayed, and the waiting lists have increased with the related reduction in the quality of life of those who have been made to wait. How disappointing, then, that at the beginning of the pandemic, action on the part of the government has not been taken to improve this unacceptable situation! The need to provide additional funds for the land hospital immediately. The amount suggested in the budget bill is not enough to deal with the problem. It is not enough to place the money in the epidemic department, in the rehabilitation room, and in the high - care facility. It must also meet the demands of the forward - line workers and the long - range challenges of aging, human resources, and working conditions that bring stress to the system. These long - term scourgings are closely related to the discussion of the Korean epidemic. Your age clearly highlights the weakness of your system. We can respond as soon as what is more: We can afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u25	President. V.E.G. Minister. I appreciate this discussion. It's been two years since we observed the fear of a foreign virus in China, and it seemed to be a harsh way to curb its spread, its valves, and its limits on freedom of movement. A few weeks later, we watched similar events in Italy and then here in Iceland as we all know it. At the beginning of this epidemic, we knew little. Of course, we were afraid. We did not know the statistics, knew nothing about the percentage of serious illness or death; for in the first few weeks, the goal was to evict the curve so that the health system would not turn aside. That was no problem, and we can be proud of the people's solidarity in that assignment. Since then, some have been two years. At this time, we've flated out the schedule, vaccinated the nation, and we know the low percentage of serious illness. Still, the message and action are remarkablely similar when we did not know the epidemic and had no advice. President. I must admit that I feel that it is not enough to talk about it, especially in view of the fact that there is no evidence to suggest that at the beginning of an epidemic, this virus could be eliminated from the world. In this light, it is important to remember that the presence of people is more than viral. However, there is little need for information on the spiritual health of people, the aseptic technique for sports or art, the prevention of loneliness. Young people in the 11th section with small children and, yes, the people who can't drink beer after the clock. 11 That people who fear for their safety are called to be nominated. In this context, I'm concerned that we've stopped separating between asking normal questions and having cross-examination. I stand firm in the belief that freedom from people will be limited only in the most extreme and temporary circumstances. In fact, it is normal and necessary to ask questions. Questions especially need to be asked now, for there now seems to be certain uncertainty as to the objective, whether we are going to infect, control, or control sheep resistance, or otherwise: Are we heading for no one to infect? Therefore, a respectable president, I must ask: What's the plan? What is the long - term plan, and who decides? I believe we have to think about this in the future with the view that viruses may always be part of our existence. I wonder in the context that there is no need for a formal conversation about what is in general here to be better equipped to establish a common policy. So as soon as I call. I would also like to say that the council and the democratic elected representatives of the council should have more on this matter. There's more here than just a few months of effort to get a virus. There is an entire society under which the greatest harm can be a viscous, chronic, and invisible one, requiring our attention as well as a number of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u26	President. I deeply respect the fact that we've been dealing with an epidemic that no one knows, and we're actually getting to know each other the same way. This means that once scientists think they're in control of the virus, it changes. I'd like to talk to you about children. First, they were influenced little by the virus. If they became infected, they did not become seriously ill. Now, though, we have reached the point where children are being vaccinated to less than five years of age. It seems that the epidemic is spreading rapidly among children. A report in the Morning newspaper says, with permission from the President: The objective is to protect the children and break the transmissible chain. As a result of immunisation of the age group, the goal is to protect both the children and break the transmissible chain. The more serious consequences observed in children than in adults, the more common they are, the more serious the consequences of Covid compared to vaccination, the higher the rate of Covid than the vaccination, the more Þórólfur. Asking about the serious consequences of Covid-19 in children, Þórólfur says that some children who have been ill with Covid-19 have experienced severe inflammatory reactions which are observed only in very serious infections, heart inflammation and inflammation of the lungs and internal organs. 133 Korean virus infections were detected in the interior of the country yesterday. Þórólfur says that according to the number of infections in recent days, the epidemic is not on its way up here and there is evidence of its detriment. Of course, we hope that that is true, to what Þórólfur says. That's a fact, without wanting to pursue the high level of conspiracy, that it is an unexploited vaccine. The fact is, there is no charge. The timeline has simply been very narrow and has been responding to severe virus as rapidly as possible. Nevertheless, the fact raises questions as to whether the best protection for children is vaccination or whether we need to look to other ways, although they may lead to temporary effects on school activities. The morning newspaper report also says, with permission of the president: According to one health - care professional, much emphasis has been placed on disrupting school activities as little as possible and only on leaving school in emergency situations. Then Þórólfur says that although children are not usually seriously ill, they can easily infect others, thus driving the epidemic. Children may then become seriously ill with Covid-19 and, according to Þórólfur, vaccination of children is therefore important for them. It is good to interfere with school activities as little as possible. Still, I wondered if there is a realistic and good goal when the virus is as high as it can be when children are exposed to it, as well as the main ways of infection are in the shoes, whether it may not be time to put aside the primary objective for a short while rather than simply using vaccinations. There is no good solution, and nobody wants school to be closed or anywhere in that direction, but it may still be something to consider that this is not, unfortunately, about a full researched vaccine, and I repeat that there is no accusation against one or another. It's just the circumstances we're in. I wondered if this possibility has been discussed or if we are just focusing on the fact that we're not going to close our schools at all because I think it's time to see if there's any better roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u27	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for the report, which, in my opinion, gives a clear perspective on the situation of the pandemic, the development and status of vaccinations, and the government's control of the spread of the epidemic here. The situation today is not really different from the situation we have so often faced in this epidemic, which is characterized by uncertainty and waiting for better scientific information to help us make informed decisions about the next steps. Now better information is waiting for the new variants, sonarone, like the highest. At the beginning of this discussion, a health minister entered earlier in his report. I want to say the highest words. A minister that while there is insufficient data, it is not safe to compromise current disease control guidelines both within the country and on the border. From the beginning of this epidemic, we have been fortunate to follow the basic suggestions made by a psychiatrist to rely on science and experts, and it is my hope that a new health - care minister will continue on that journey. For me, there is a particular situation here in September 2021, I was in charge of the government of Public Defense in the Northern West, with the priority of monitoring and responding to the development of the epidemic in that area. The time will never be forgotten for so many reasons, and it was admirable to observe the activities and work of the trident, health - care professionals, and the number of individuals who have contributed to the scales for their well - being, the professional, the carefulness and perseverance they showed in this unprecedented and complex task. It's been good for us to go along with science. That would certainly be my hope that we will continue in that course. I would like to use this opportunity here to thank health care professionals, police, health care workers, rescue teams, and the many individuals, companies and organizations that in many cases have worked on a tremendous amount of work and effort in this crisis of viral activity. As a nation, we're lucky with our forward workers. They have been able to deal successfully with the epidemic, and they are worthy of praise. A health minister and a carer are not envious about the need to make difficult decisions, often burdensome and conservative decisions about actions, commands, and bans. Not everyone has been at peace with decisions or actions, and it is really not surprising that there are conflicting opinions about the type of action to take at any given time. It is also understandable that the people's patience is, in effect, a challenge after less than two years of difficulty, with the disastrous consequences of the epidemic of individuals, businesses, and economics. Yet, all of us are rowing in the same direction. By the action that has now been taken, it is my hope that soon, under brighter time, we will be able to get over it, and our lives may begin to get back to normal values. That is the common objective of all of us, and with the cohesion we will cross the finish line.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u28	A respectable president. A new health minister has now accepted the instrument as the leader of land infectious defenses in the time of the pandemic crown virus, which has lasted for two years. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A minister to the gratitude of the battle against this disaster, and especially I would like to encourage the highest order. A health minister to help protect human rights more than the government has so far. You see, it is very important that we become part of people's daily lives, that we may be moderate in what they say. A moderate thought may sound like some legal concept that is of little importance in times of need, but that is not at all. The surgeon general has made it very clear that he does not view it as his job to assess the moderate measure of action he makes with the government. I have found that the government is constantly shielding itself behind the pages of a psychiatrist without realizing the judgment that must have been made on the effect that these impairments will have on people's rights and on the counterweight actions that will take place to oppose this negative effect. The government has to show that, especially when we are so far into the epidemic and have been in this state for so long, that it has weighed and evaluated the benefits and defects of taking these measures. It must show that the measures are intended to be successful, that no other less effective measures are available. This must be temporary action, and all this assessment must be available to the public. The government has failed so far because it is always referred to this medical doctor's memo. But there is no assessment. There is no assessment of moderate action. The government has to do more in informing the public about what interests are behind their decisions on freedom control than it has so far. It must also do better in counterbills to reduce the damage caused by the loss of freedoms because of the degree of damage to disease care. By means of counterbillary action, I am referring to strengthening the Land Hospital so that we will have better resistance to the new waves of the epidemic. I'm also saying better when it comes to dealing with the negative, psychological consequences of this isolation than we've done so far, better than the present financial bill suggests we do. And, of course, there is a need to meet another member of the management board, who has to live another year with great limitations and great uncertainty as to whether the government will meet them. There is still no room for such a thing. Business partners in the food sector how to get through this release if the government fails to respond and perform counter measures. Information sooner than later is always better. I also encourage the government to impress on the cards and to state whether they will be more supportive of people than they have so far. A respectable president. In the final part of this speech, I would like to discuss only a case in which a psychiatrist mentioned that he would now agree with professional grounds to distinguish people based on whether they had accepted a booster dose of vaccine or not, i.e. that the subjects who receive a third dose of vaccine will be free of certain restrictions that people with a second dose of vaccine or may not have to have any vaccines. I'd like to warn you, especially since a psychiatrist is not responsible for evaluating the average measure of action he suggests, but also because we don't want to discriminate people, since there is no need if there is less available. Now we have a very high rate of vaccinees in Iceland. We see the nation taking part when they are invited to do so. The failure to add a booster dose at this time is not a basis for starting to differ from one person on the basis of whether or not they have received this dose. There is reason to inform the public more about the benefits and defects of this booster dose. Enlightenment of the public makes informed and good decisions. Rather, it is by looking to common sense and solidarity that we will succeed in this struggle, not through discrimination and division. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u29	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. The health minister of Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the verbal report he gave us here on the state of the disease. I wish this would be the only report to be the highest. Ministers need to transfer us to this case, but unfortunately, I don't think it will be that way because of the epidemic situation, both in the country and globally. There will be something needed to continue these discussions, and I believe it is good for this discussion to be done regularly at the Council for as long as necessary. I thought it was good how to get to the top. During the epidemic in Iceland, a minister reviewed the story. You see, it has become quite a long time, and it is good to review how evolution has been and to put it in a statistical context like the highest degree. As a minister, it is interesting to see how we can, in view of the time, see how the measures taken affect many social infections. Thus we gather in the knowledge bank, not only scientists on the spread of the virus, but also as legislators at the General on how to deal with it, and so the community as a whole can see how action works. I believe this is relevant to the very fact that the discussion and understanding of action and even criticism of action taken are based on as much fact as the knowledge we will always acquire as time goes on. I've felt that what has been done was important, like the highest. The minister actually crossed over, i.e. to control the number of infections, to protect vulnerable groups and to protect the health system. It was the guide of the former Supreme Court. Ministers of health and I think it's important to know that this is newer than ever. Ministers also plan to cooperate. I believe it has been helpful in Iceland to follow the advice of specialists and therefore the head of the disease - control doctor at the top of the field when it comes to dealing with the viral epidemic. We see that this proved to be good, since the number of deaths has been low in this country compared with other countries. Still, meeting restrictions, although they have been burdensome and are not pleasant to anyone and influence the economy in many ways, have been more mild in comparison with what we have seen has been involved in other countries. This has always been the case. I like it, and I care to hear that 90% of the country's 12 - year - olds are fully vaccinated. However, I also feel that it is important to keep trying to reach those of this group and not have received vaccinations for any reason, through information, with what may be called unconventional routes, as tried by a vaccine car. I would like to continue working in this way through conversation with people and information and thus contribute to the peak vaccination rate being given. I would also like to mention it in this discussion and direct it to the highest level. Healthcare Minister but also to the highest. Secretary of State, for some of these reasons also depends on him, continuing to get a vaccine into the countries that have not been able to secure the price of a vaccine, as the richest nations of the world have been able to do. Based on everything we know, it should be clear to everyone that this virus epidemic will not run out until it runs out on a global scale. Hence, it is important that all the countries of the world have access to vaccines. I fully understand that a small nation such as Iceland can't see to it that the whole world is going to be vaccinated. But we can do our part, both by giving the vaccine as it has been done through two-sided contracts, by participating in the COVAAX partnerships, and by speaking for these globally and by participating in global funding. This is what matters to me, where we have responsibility as a nation among nations, and as one of the richer nations of the world. That's what I'm saying. I'm going to take my case short. I want to thank you again, the highest. Minister for report. The talk here will continue but I want to take this opportunity to thank the many forward workers who have stood up for a long time and, unfortunately, have to do something about it as well as anyone who has adapted their work and life to the circumstances we live in this pandemic. But I believe we have material and reason to be able to continue working as well as is possible with it to protect the lives and health of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u30	A respectable president. I wanted to start by mentioning what I feel is happening after all this time, which is a contribution from the public in these difficult situations, that the public has shown great strength and is doing well. It appears, for example. in that we have one of the world's highest vaccination rates. For the first time, when we were dealing with this pandemic and the circumstances that follow, the goal was, of course, to put the nation away simply by immunization. The government and the government did well on that assignment, and so did the common people. As a nation, we have not had to contend that the public does not want to participate and accept a vaccine. Similarly, the government has kept watch all the time, doing good, but their roles are reserved and limited. I believe that the Pandemic answer was the vaccination, and that's still the answer. Yet, it remains that we live in limitations similar to those of the nations and countries where the rate of vaccination is much lower. The reason is the endurance of the Land Hospital, and, of course, the government is responsible, and no one else is responsible. President. I wanted to mention here that it is a serious matter that a council hasn't been working since June 13 and until December 1 when the situation in a pandemic was what it was, and the reaction of the government was the ones that were. V.E.G. Health Minister traced the timeline to the previous June 26th, all transport restrictions are eliminated, July 25 is reactivated, the Council is not active on September 3, there are new restrictions, speed tests, September 15, October 20, etc., back in November. All this time, Congress is not active. It is absent, and at the same time the government is under surveillance it, very weak. Of course, the lawgiver cannot step in, and this is not the role of the council. However, the role of the Senate is to monitor. It's not just the council's right to supervise the government, it's the duty of the council to do this role. Therefore, it is critical that as the new wave takes off and we see the disease prevention operation resumes, the inspectors have not been working. There is an election in the fall of a large and powerful cause. When the unprecedented conditions have long since become part of our daily lives, the government must share in the fact that the Council can fulfill its role. There's a real shortage. That's why I'd like to suggest that we operate at the highest level. Health Ministers will have to be anything but a whole epidemic, standing outside the Ministerial Residents, and bringing up memoirs about operations for the next few weeks without a full schedule of employment, schools in the country, even clinics, and without a total at the council itself. It is simply an unhealthy way of doing things in this long period of time. Of course, the point of the incision is very serious in terms of disease prevention and economic actions, the cutoff point between disease prevention and social factors. When we discuss disease prevention after all this time, the nation has had the vaccination, and we are fortunate enough to accept a third vaccination, the overall picture needs to be discussed. Healthy, certainly, I'm not going to break the healthy, of course not, but it also requires discussing the economy and the job, social conditions, the circumstances of families with young children under a contagion. It's a big part of the people who are under siege today, kids who can't get to school. At home, young schoolchildren are under a fever that is debilitating to their lives and, of course, debilitating to their parents'work. I find it hard to see that governments have the same narrow perspective on their mission as the government of Disease Control. While local authorities focus on this aspect, the role of the government is different, of course. State debt is swollen. I see that I'm also burning in time, so I'm going to get to finish my speech in the words that we need a clearer picture. A vaccinated people should be able to approach the project in the long run rather than just two or three weeks of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u31	Mr. President. First, I'd like to wish for the highest. The health minister is happy about his office and wishes him well. It would have been better to have a place of words directly at the top. A president on this occasion, but not in the form of this discussion. But I hope that the next time a minister reports this matter, it will be done in the same arrangement as when the past election period ended, i.e. that they will be considered and referred to at the highest level. President. But after two years of action, we feel in the situation that there is a particular need to argue that people will enjoy freedom and human rights. Not that it is the principle that needs to give evidence of compromising. Already the crown virus has been part of the community for two years, we must resist when it is spoken of as dividing people according to whether they have been injected two or three times. The history of Europe during the first part of the past century should remind us of fresh memories. Granted, freedom is rarely lost all at once. We are looking at reports from countries where this story should be especially fresh in memory, looking to rule out non-vaccinated citizens from the public population, to name one example. Is all the history of knowledge and past experiences forgotten in this regard? This is not to say that those handling decisions are ill-informed or injured, not at all. Everyone's trying their best. However, the journey began in a lot of uncertainty, uncertainty about the severity of the virus, uncertainty about how to develop a vaccine, what the aftereffects would be for those who become ill and continue to be counted. This uncertainty is much smaller today. The information and knowledge more, and here in Iceland, a large majority of the nation's population are fully vaccinated or what was soon called a fully vaccinated, but this definition seems to have taken place. It is government to look at the bigger picture. It is a disease - control doctor to analyze the status of the disinfectants and make suggestions for them. For nearly two years, governments have chosen to make decisions to a disease - control doctor, who is in no context fair to either the pathologist or the nation. In fact, a health - care professional has regularly reminded others that making a decision is based on the big picture. A new health minister must have the strength to consider more than has been done so, and I believe that this will be the case. First measure at the highest level. As regards private replacement operations, Ministers give excellent assurances that the Marxian policy taken by the former health minister will be abandoned. But pushing down responsibility for policy, as the government has done in the last two years, it can't go on any longer. I challenge a new health minister to watch decisions relating to the Covid virus from a wide range of perspectives. In fact, the damage to the virus is more widespread than in those who receive it, the resulting virus does not cause serious effects in the majority of people who receive it. Those most affected by the virus, it can be said, had the lowest chance of serious illness, young school - agers at all. Students are graduating without reaching one full year of school without restrictions and intervention. It's working. Job drivers have been subject to minimal changes in corporate management. Lonely ones have been particularly badly affected by this, and those who were so unfortunate that recently started their business when governmental antiviral measures began. The Italian surgeon general published an interesting report on October 5 of this year. of the more than 130,000 deaths with the virus in Italy, 97.1% had one to five underlying diseases. So we should know who we need to defend. Let us protect those who are sensitive, but let us praise other parts of the community to take their normal course as possible. Mr. President. When the feeling of action is triggered by action to do something, the community fades rapidly. That's what I think, e.g. a lot of strange that now you can kind of fill a theater of the audience with a brand-new Covid test on your pocket. The audience, however, is not allowed to buy a piece of cocot, but the theater allows visitors to water in the same place that the bottle of cobblers had been given. The land hospital's state is then a capitalist. It is quite clear that now that we have been in this situation for almost two years, action is aimed at controlling the transmission of infectious agents and those who are seriously affected by the virus. This gave me reason to write an article under the heading of the seven years in the seas, where I pointed out that if the hospital can handle only about 100 people a day, it will take us seven years to develop herd resistance based on community infections. Some days later, a surgeon interviewed and said that it could take about nine years. I just want to say here at the highest. Health Minister: It will not be comfortable in Icelandic society that we look forward to a period of many years of entering and closing in on business in an unpredictable way. We have to get out of that direction. And that in the less than two years since this crisis, the government has not brought the hospital's affairs to a better light, it is quite confusing and, in fact, reprehensible. The nations will soon turn away from the course of the Western nations. Instead of allowing it to overpower society, let us be on our journey there, in a more reasonable way, and learn to live with this virus.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u32	Madam President. I'd like to start by wishing the new ones to be accepted at the highest level. Healthcare Ministers successful. I would like to thank you for this discussion, but I also wish to read a talk at the highest. Minister after the discussion because he could only cover a short part, and this is, yes, a report to the council, which is important for all of us, although it has not been made sound here in the Senate Hall. Or possibly there should be some discussion about printing a medical report and presenting it to the council. I have previously mentioned whether members of the council here participate in the discussion could get some kind of report sent in the morning so that this will be a real discussion of the situation and the ideas that exist. We've also discussed it in the past in this state to the highest degree. A health minister will be made to check the council for confirmation of the procedure being made. Now we're so far into this process that we know about What needs to be done, when, and how - and how - is it not such a dangerous situation that we need to respond overnight? Hence, it is perfectly normal that within a week of making decisions, they should be confirmed at the council. This has been held in the Norwegian Parliament all along. They didn't agree to put this into the Disease Control Act and the changes they made when we were working them here at the council, but I think this is absolutely necessary. The effort to get more ministers to the table did not agree. It's a D.A.D. That gives you a memo. Actually, we do not know exactly what to do about it. There is one minister who makes decisions about important actions that affect the entire population of the country, their jobs, their livelihood, possible household development, and that have an overexcited impact on the mental health of a nation. So I think it'd be wise to add this to a new CDC. Besides, I'd like to point out a new U.S.A. Healthcare Ministers should not have been called to the table for the entire time of the pandemic, although legally bound to the highest level. In these situations, a health minister has used a preventative approach to counsel him. It's being taken out of the law, but it's in the current law. This is one and a half years of the year that has never been called up for protection. Of course, it is shameful for the government to choose not to follow current laws. It has been around the world with regard to the situation of the epidemic. There are a lot of things that we have done very well and that are especially of the nation's solidarity, which has been incredibly well - informed and made a full contribution to the procedures that have been necessary, but not to health care professionals. Then we are not only talking about health care professionals who work in the local public health institutions but also health professionals who work in independent national units. That's where I've got to get the attention. A minister and the rest of the world have decided that the government has decided not to pay anyone who is going to respond to an emergency call when more health care professionals are needed to participate in vaccinations, screenings, or other cases of this pandemic, as is now all over, in Saturday's palace and throughout the country, that all kinds of health care professionals who are not on a fixed pay at the government are helping. But the government has decided not to pay these people a cent, either in the pandemic stress payments or has been paid to accept people on their payroll who are currently on government payroll and to bring them into a job with the government, the government as a free-of-the-freak public. For all this time, the distress call of this operator has been ignored. I have in my own mailbox since I was chairman of the welfare committee a letter sent to the highest level. Prime Minister, secretary of finance, then president of the budget and welfare committee, on this point. The letter was sent earlier this year, so it remains. I note that it is not normal for public to be useful to those who work in the free market. I think we must agree that these people have the right to receive money like others. But these people also have the right to be paid for their work. Other than that, I thank you very much for the discussion here and I wanted it to be longer. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u33	A respectable president. First, I'd like to congratulate Mr. Willum Þór Þórsson, who was a health minister, and to expect much from him and to look forward to his cooperation. A respectable president. I have shared in many discussions about these matters, and my message is still the same when we discuss the treatment: Let's stand up for the nation, the government, and the council. Of course, I'm referring to a normal exchange here in the conference hall and in the government, and it's been good. Of course, they can always be improved. It's a big deal to cut off public freedoms, restrictions on employment freedom, culture and school. Naturally, freedom must never be limited more than necessary. However, the limitations of the health system and its staff must never be offended. Limitations to the general public must always be taken into account the health of the system. The crown - virus epidemic has been on for two years, and the nation has become very tired and tired. It is not today whether we have reached the end of this terrible epidemic or are still in the first step, and it is still a long walk ahead of us. A respectable president. So it is still the same message from me: Talk about how the epidemic is, communicated, and treated the nation as an example. There is little that will weaken our actions more than a divisive message from the government. I sent three eyes and medical staff thanks for their heavy and long periods of stress. I respect their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u34	A respectable president. As soon as I make my wishes for the newest. I would like to apply just what I believe was missing in his speech. I realize that he did not get everything that he wanted to say at the short time he got. During conversations with people in town, I've come up with this question: Is the situation in Iceland now that it's all right to die of every disease in Iceland except for Covid? That question arises, for example. in recent times, when a heart operation was stopped because of a terrible number of infections and hospitalisations at a National Hospital ▪ University Hospital. The procedure should be performed immediately the other day, the patient was ready and was on the way to an operation that he needed vitally but the operation was terminated. What plan have we come to? How can we set our priorities so that we say that disease, mental and physical, serious diseases are always put back for Covid-19? We must start reevaluating it. We've been in this fight for two years now. Health systems have doubled, even tripled in some places. You also suffer when you meet individuals who are waiting for replacement operations and especially for older ones. One pointed out that he was waiting for a replacement surgery. He knew that he could have a replacement operation in Sweden at three costs, but he could not because he has underlying diseases, he cannot travel. He asked if he could walk across the street, lie down, and go to the surgery by private agents. No, he'd have to pay himself, for which he didn't have money. We have to change this. We can't afford this. It is also the case when you talk to a person who needs a replacement and is in full - time work, has been gone for three months, and is able to stay away, not another month, but even years, and the work below. Does this mean that we are trying to make and get people into disability? And then the government is going to come and ask, "How can we stop all those who are going into poverty? ' We have to turn the sheet around. And children. Children are also suspended and the survival of children is increased, which in no way can be acceptable. We must also remember that in the two years that have passed during the Covid epidemic, the pressures of our health care professionals are becoming overexhaustible, and pressures are growing. As a result, coldness and surrender. Over the last four years, the government has known that conditions in the hospital were bad. And for the last two years, she could have tried to deal with the Covid epidemic and not done anything - or little. And how has the government responded to recent Covids? Yes, always answer the same thing: One more injection. That's it. So nothing happened. There's a new variant. That's the same song: One more shot, and then it's all right. But we've seen it's not like that. Therefore, Covid must be taken out and in a place where it is just a special unit. That should have been done a year ago. But this is hardly now because it is not enough to have Covid as a unit in the hospital, it must be moved so that it is completely different, so that everyone in need of health care will get it. Zoëga, Karolinska Hospital, Sweden, pointed out this. Cancer is going to get out of control and people are going to have an analysis that should take two, three weeks, but it will take months, and the diagnosis may be too late. We can't allow ourselves to do this. We have to start thinking things over. We are under obligation to arrange for those in need to receive it, much less vital help in the health - care system. But let us not hold them. Let us not hold them back at all just because Covid should take first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. In fact, a health minister for a good report that he was unable to complete despite much good intentions. At the same time, I wish him success at a challenging job. I trust the highest. Ministers to these and other projects. It is true what was published in the highest report. Minister when he says that vaccinations in this country were successful. 90% of the population are fully vaccinated, and some 121,000 people have received a booster dose, which, according to scientific data, gives 90% higher protection against transmission. In spite of all of this, we have several meeting restrictions here on the country. In some way, you sense that the community is shrinking, and patience with the persistent limit of disease is approaching some limit of endurance, such as the highest level. A minister rightly mentions and reports in his report that these limitations are indeed burdensome. They affect us, whether we are individuals or business. Despite the fact that most of us live our lives in a normal way, however, there is nothing absolute in the community. Of course, it is necessary to protect the people's life and health, and there is something that, of course, needs to be number one, two and three. But at the same time, the economy of our homes and businesses has to be protected in this country. We now see in the work of committees that economic measures are beginning to run their course, but it seems that there are limits of disease that seem to follow us back a whole new year. For management and others directly affected by these limitations and are now sailing into the Christmas season, propaganda has become quite heavy in many places. I can give you an example from my home country, Hafnarfjörður. The current situation and limitations have an impact on one bar owner that it has been taken 20 hours a week, 80 hours a month, and each hour costs between 100,000 and 1,200 k, so we see that in a month it is about 12 million. K. So it is interesting in this context to consider whether it is wrong and fair to use the measures that have proved their value in the past two years and continue to reduce the impact, even new action, and adapt them to those who feel the most of this great blow. Besides, I think it is right to speculate, and of course, we have begun to recognize cases from many parts of the world that those who are fully vaccinated or who have a booster dose, are immune to certain limitations, and have further rights. I just think it's important that all of this be examined and think, because we have this great position, this high percentage of vaccinees and boosters, that we've come to the point where we have to discuss these issues. That's what I said. I'm putting high hopes in them. They're going to be the best. Health Minister opening up six high-secures. This will reduce the pressures of the intensive care unit. And finally, it would be interesting to know about the situation at these six compartments and a special epidemic in Fos Soir and 30 rehabilitationists in Landakoti.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u36	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Health Minister for your report. We are faced with many moral questions that we have prayed to answer for nearly two years, with a constant hope that this pandemic will run out in weeks to months. We need to ask ourselves, " Am I going to be responsible for having children? Am I going to have a regular obligation to inform people about my health information, whether we will limit the availability of unvaccinated to services, whether we will limit the freedom of the unvaccinated to and from the country, and whether we are going to give vaccinated leaves from various limitations? ' All of these are difficult questions that involve a variety of withdrawals from civil freedom. As an individual already with all the vaccines given around the world floating about my veins, including three doses of a Covid vaccine, these points may not affect me personally, but I am aware that there are people who have different opinions than I do in these matters and even though I do not agree with some of them and their opinions, I think it is important, in fact, very important, that we take up a discussion of the limitations of civil freedom. This is especially important now when it is evident that we need to learn not only how to live with the virus for some short time but even in the future. It is also important to consider why we have more severe limitations than the number of infections per 1,000 people does. This is because the government of the last elected period has left the health system in ruins. Then I'm not just talking about the situation at the Land Hospital. I'm talking about the whole system. It's a mess. Consider a simple example and close to it. The first possible time for me to have time with a family doctor is in four weeks, in the beginning of January. I'm afraid that what I'm suffering now may now be 80% of the cases have run out of time or may have gotten much worse. If I am able to go to the medical department, I can expect to wait up to eight to nine hours after my turn and the doctor who responds to me is under great stress and, unfortunately, cannot take much time to determine what is happening to me. If things are more serious, I have to wait for a similar time, even longer, i.e. If I'm not dismissed, at the emergency room. In recent years there has been an ongoing emergency, and the staff is exhausted. This arrangement is neither reasonable, practical, nor humanitarian, for healthcare professionals nor for the users of the ministry. V.E.G. In the coming year, a health minister makes beautiful promises of increased health investments, but promises are not as grand as fine as they are. Better yet, the real growth between the ages is only 1.5 billion, especially as a result of the population's growth and aging. The rest is more and less old money being drumming up as new. This is not the treatment of the designer who has proved to be a health - care provider and needs to be resolved. The fine paper The Morning newspaper recently stated that some 2,000 health workers had fled the country during the past decade. I am convinced that if groups here at the council come together instead of fighting in the pits, we have the opportunity to build up a health system so that we can withstand world epidemics and other disasters that will come. I encourage my distinguished colleagues to put the interests of patients in first place and to listen to the suggestions and comments of each other in order to ensure a healthy Iceland for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u37	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A health minister for reporting to the council and for reporting only the situation as it appears from his point of view. It was interesting to hear, and, of course, I wish him well-being in his jobs during the election season. Of course, this is a very important ministry, a large and large ministry that has come a long way in the pandemic. During this epidemic, we Icelanders have been talking a little bit about the need to be united among the people so that things will work out properly when we are fighting the threat of the virus. I agree that the community is extremely important. This is not like any other political issue in itself. This is different, it reaches into every sort of moral place we've pushed ahead of us, as shown in the discussion, and so on. The absolute basic requirement for any solidarity among the people is, of course, that governments are moving in rhythm. During the past few months, governments have been running in rhythm. This has been the case in the case of a disease - control doctor's memo. It has been discussed in the government, and we have seen events following a government meeting where part of the government runs under the press, points to a health minister who then speaks for a more stringent DC and a loss of human rights, and other cabinet ministers after events, to criticize the measures approved at a meeting in which the Supreme Court was approved. The ministers themselves were present. This is not a message of solidarity to the nation. This is not a message of solidarity. When we in this country complain that there are times when rules are confusing, as is the case when writing the manuscript as crazy as we are fighting the virus and not having enough information in our hands, it is absolutely unacceptable that this situation exists, that the message is from the highest level. Government. Of course, there is some communication at the government table, even if that is so. Of course, there are many differences. But as I pointed out, this case is not a traditional political case that lains some of the songs we know from political debates. This calls for solidarity, and this requires that governments speak in one voice if at any other level, they expect the public to obey and obey the instructions and recommendations given. The members of the House of Independence were told about it here during an unscheduled period of inquiry as to the size of the Independence Party. That was an interesting discussion, but I'd like and have been putting this in perspective before in public. There are 17 members of this council. No more than 17 people are needed to go to the hospital with Covid, and the reaction is affecting human rights in the community. That's not a lot more than that. If we play soccer, it's an initial football team and the understudy class. This number of people goes to the hospital, and we need to respond by cutting people's human rights. That's what we need to take from it our job freedom. We need to limit meeting freedom, freedom of meeting, simply because no more than a group is entering the hospital. This is the big problem. All of our actions through this epidemic will take place, and the fact that no more is needed, of course, tells us that the system under which we are on guard has been neglected. As a result of this neglect, ministers in the government allow themselves to run out of government meetings and still criticize the measures taken to address a difficult situation at the hospital. This, of course, is distressing. When we are speaking of in the context of vaccinations that human rights have become almost a kind of prize in society, having to walk about free and enjoying the rights that all of us should enjoy, of course, it is also a very dangerous situation. We're supposed to be in that facility right now, as strong as we are, that the council needs to shape long-term policy, long-term disease control policies, long-term policies at the time of vaccination. Whether we are going to have double systems, vaccinated and unvaccinated, taking into account human rights is a decision that must be made by the council. There is no decision in the memos of a minister who then enters the government, which, in turn, fights over it and runs out and south, each with its own message according to the way winds blow each time. [[The president calls.]] The Senate needs to get more involved when we look for a longer period of time. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u38	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for the tour. It is important that we bear in mind that the Council is not only a legal field but also the establishment of a democratic discussion, and it would not be out of the way that the legislatator had greater and better access to such important decisions as having been taken here in the past few months and years. Our neighbors, Danir, have made legal decisions for the assembly. This short time I've got here in a pit, I'm going to protect the children of this country because we all say we're in this fight with crown virus, that we all have to contribute, but it's clear that there's a lot of pressure. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about a paid job contribution. Because it's the highest. The health minister may refer to statistics in his review, however, it is undeniably clear that children are at low risk of Covid, at least not more likely than from a number of other infections. Even so, for nearly two years they have suffered from complex limits, school disorders, sports and leisure activities, and isolation from friends and relatives. Although we may feel that time has flown, two years is very long and an important development and child development. There have been many cases of long - term and forced specimens in Icelandic children. This is a great intervention in the everyday lives of these children, a real violation of freedom. Fears affect the lives of their own children, along with parents and guardians. For children, fear of disease has become so intense in some places that parents experience severe anxiety and agitation in their discussion of education. This, of course, follows the unscrupulous conclusion that children are in some way dangerous to their environment, to be infected, and to cause harm to their immediate family. Our children have spent many days at home, trying to keep their distance so as not to interfere with family and Dad's homework. Children have missed school meals during this time, resulting in the most nourishing meal of the day because of circumstances in which children have been isolated in harmful circumstances at home, and they will never have to wait for that. President. Now that we, as one of the world's greatest vaccinated nations, continue to talk about making decisions and taking action for society all over, let us keep in mind: When making decisions that concern children's affairs, according to law, what is a child's best interests are. Children have an unscrupulous legal right to study and to enjoy the rights of their age and development. They have the right to be protected and to be treated with dignity and respect. It is our duty as a community to protect our children from what threatens their lives and health. Covid is not high on list, but a spiritual pandemic is much higher. It is our community responsibility to protect those who are more sensitive. On this point, we are agreed by a psychiatrist. But let us not forget that children are truly a vulnerable group, and when it is reached, the greatest harm for children is due to the massive amount of action they have had to put under to avoid being infected with a virus that damages them very little. It's their contribution, and it's not a small thing. President. A moral estimate of how far it is to go on the vital rights of children to protect others other people than they themselves need to be taken care of. We need to evaluate whether we are going to be a community in which we ask children to continue taking on burdens in order to protect older ones or whether we are a community in which older ones take on burdens to protect their children. And what better setting is there to discuss this than here at the Honorable General? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u39	Madam President. I'm going to start by asking for the highest order. He or she will be happy with the office and thank him for bringing us here to report a pandemic, but may they be as few as possible. I'd also like to say that I thought the arrangement we had during our last term was more lively and enjoyable, since we had a conversation with the highest level of conversation. Secretary of health. I think it's me and the highest. Ministers have served together on a financial and business committee when Covid struck, at least I would sit there and have to admit that a man was absolutely worried about what was coming. You imagined another collapse, a lack of work, bankruptcy, and even the loss of families. Happily, it did not become the case, and in these days we discuss the financial and financial policies of the government that we have been successful in dealing with the economic impacts of the pandemic. But I would never have suspected at the time that at that time I had gone to the Saturday Valley Palace three times in some kind of group - vaccination, wearing a mask during daily activities. Yet, that is the reality in which we live. I'm going to agree with a lot of people who have discussed here today that I think we've had a lot of results in the beginning. It may have been good to see what our system, even our medical system, and the Landspit, this huge government agency that you were often afraid of just not being able to change, could change to zero one. When we had to react, events could be changed. There was a way to deal with specific Covid departments, walking departments. You could get people to call people who were sick or infected by Covid at the time, all great. V.E.G. Minister, we need to know what the future plan is, because we are now in a different place than we were in the first place. It makes you wonder whether our resources, resources, and powers of effective health care professionals are no better at caring for those who are really sick rather than in contact with people who may be infected with Covid than they are, because of our efforts at vaccinations, they feel little or no illness. So I'm going to answer a question. paritaprevir Early today's Sverrisdóttir, what's the plan for the future? I would also like to agree with what was said in the language of the day. paritaprevir The Diljá of Mist Einarsdóttir earlier about the children. There's something we have to start talking about seriously. I realize that in Iceland, we are fortunate that teaching in basic schools has not nearly failed in this country. I think one day is covered, but, of course, it's been necessary to close schools and classrooms because they were infected. Now we must start to wonder what the long - term effects will be when we are dealing with these great obstacles. Then I'm going to repeat what I've said before, both in my discussion with the former Supreme Court. Healthcare Ministers and also when we discussed the treatment laws: We cannot be here with long - term restrictions on a society in which we impair human rights and freedom of people without allowing democratic votes to be given an opportunity to discuss these limitations. If you have a pandemic and an infection, you may have good reason to deal with the treatment in some way. But it must also be our indiscriminate demand that we here be elected by the people to discuss the limitations I would like to encourage the highest degree. As this epidemic nears its end, hopefully it will be necessary to return to the treatment laws that we accepted here not long ago, with the premise that we would have to consider that again from the very point of view, it would not be necessary for the Council to reflect on a longer period of limitations in the lives of the people. There are many other comparable examples that can be mentioned in the laws, whether in financial terms, about bank sales, or for the like, where it is authorized for a minister, but still a requirement to be discussed in the democratic field of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u40	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion of my reports on these measures and the situation of the epidemic. I wrote down the tips and good comments of all of the people here, who certainly would - just watch time - to deal with them all here and now. But then, of course, it's out of the window like before. I'd like to say here, however, it's probably a matter of timelined with the report that is fundamental to what I tried to present in my previous speech, what was to the timeline, and the context of action and the situation of the epidemic now. Then there's the other part that comes along and looks at many of the indications that came in on the average and on our community and how we manage, while learning lessons from how things work, how to keep the community as active as possible. Long-term records were asked. There are, of course, these stages that we need to follow through on what we learn more, in spite of the virus's behavior and its uncertainty, to keep society going. Doing so is always the most important thing in our life and health. This is what I can put my arms around about long-term records. As for the vaccinations, I'd like to say we don't want to divide the nation. The statistical and benefit of the use of vaccinations and recommendations is one. Distributing the nation is out of the question on my part and is different. I think we need to take that conversation much rather, and especially, as indicated in the talk at the beginning. paritaprevir Diljá of Mist Einarsdóttir earlier, about the children. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is the social and spiritual element that has to do with their health, one when we make decisions for ourselves, and another for our children. [[The president calls.]] We need to consider their health, but at the same time that their lives are least disturbed so that they can attend leisure and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I thought I'd enjoy a kind presence in the same category, but I realized the rules of the council and I apologize. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'll give you this report. [[The President reminds us that everyone needs to respect the deadline here. [Laughter at the Assembly Hall.] However, the president would also like to mention here that it might be desirable to consider other forms of conversation as this in order to increase our opportunities to a total.]] However, the president would also like to mention here that it might be desirable to consider a different form of conversation as this in order to increase the opportunities to a total.)
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u41	Madam President. I was raped - there are three words that no parent is prepared to hear a 14 - year - old say through the tears. An hour later, though, after reporting the fragment and giving the first report, our parents and I never doubted how far that process would go for justice. More than a year later, the case first came to the prosecutor, and it was not until five years after the incident that the guilty man was finally sentenced to two and a half years in prison for his crime of raping a child. At that time, it was discovered that our daughter was not the only one he had committed but was broken at least Nine of them. During the five years that our daughter was waiting for for justice, most of them suffered. Only one other case against him went on trial and was punished in the Supreme Court so that he could finish sitting in the same court as the punishment for raping my daughter. Sadly, my daughter's story is not unique, and each year hundreds of people face similar experiences, and only a few victims experience the fulfillment of justice. Despite a great deal of effort in these matters in 2018, after the so - called #methoo revolution started for the first time, it is still far off that the duration of the treatment of these cases is adequate and that the work proposed in the trials is adequate. Sadly, this is especially true in the capital area. This arrangement suggests some dramatic and ambitious action that can advance the treatment of sexual abuse in the legal system, thus working against sexual abuse and promoting support for their endurance. First, it is suggested that specific measures be taken to further the activities of the police and the prosecution in the investigation of sexual abuses. The premise that sexual abuse can be fully investigated and, with an acceptable trial period, is that there is plenty of force in the police department. Therefore, it is necessary to increase funding to the police, especially in order to increase the number of persons responsible for the investigation of sexual abuses. Such work must be an independent goal of shortening the treatment period while maintaining the quality of the study. It is also suggested that the treatment of sexual abuse will be undertaken in a special way by the prosecutor's bodies, i.e. from the district attorney and district attorney. Available evidence suggests that the charges are published only for 1 in 10 people who are suspected of a offense and that there may even be a real conviction rate of less than 3%. Low conviction rates may be influenced to some extent by the current law frame, but in view of the fact that only a tenth of each suspect is charged with asking whether the prosecution's work is really in the way of maximising the likelihood that the perpetrators are accountable for their errors and that the aim of justice is achieved. You must add more treatment to your situation, e.g. by shortening the duration of the treatment and the extensive review of the reported fractures with increased funding to support the human resources. Free companions play a vital role when it comes to supporting sexual abuses. Much of the progress that has been made in the press in recent years and decades became the initiative for grass - based organizations and other non - government stakeholders. For example, Stepamoth, the League of Women, the Children's Passion, the Dragon Path, the Rotina, and the Red Cross. The contribution of these liberal parties is irreprehensible, and their part of the fight against violence is of utmost importance. Transporters thus feel that it is necessary to be a better guard of their activity. On the other hand, such an organization is commonly operated on by voluntary donations, and, on the other hand, recruitment, rural society, and other public agencies are strengthened. Therefore, transporters believe that it is necessary for a minister to map the services provided by any organisation and to find ways to secure their activities with the extra financial resources needed for their management. In addition to immediate measures to ensure improved treatment of sexual fractures in the justice system, it must also be considered for the management of future policy plans to take into account the real status of tolerance and the effectiveness of the legal system. This will include a study of the duration of sexual abuses, and a map will be used to shorten these studies. The current proportion of lower cases, the use of penalties and the development of judgments, will then be considered. Then a minister must also consider all the other factors that can affect the effectiveness of the legal system. When surveying the application of the punishable conditions, it is especially necessary to examine how often 204. a new penalties are a new form of penalties, and whether it is necessary to revise the directive in terms of the seriousness of the offense and the limited effect of punishment when a defense can be used with reference to that article. For those of you who don't know about the 204th floor. it is about whether or not a child is known. There is also a conflict to consider how to improve the general performance of tolerance. This includes some. putting laws on the membership of victims in their own business so that those with whom they are working have increased rights that are open to those who do not have to appeal to them personally. Then the role of a court official will be considered and the support of a justice officer can be given to those who tolerate it, e.g. by increasing the number of hours spent in court care by reimbursement and by increasing the entrance of justice officers to the treatment of judicial cases at all levels. Then improvements in sexual abuse will also be guaranteed, including ... withtheundityoftheweapon. I am very grateful to my importers and others why. Councilmen who have approached me on this matter. On the contrary, that support of the political spectrum of Allegis sends an important message to the community for support of our request to the highest degree. Minister of preparation and implementing a specific sexual act programme with the aim of increasing support for their tolerability. We believe it is important that we plan the operation programme at the highest level. Ministers in agreement with the interest groups of tolerability and peripheral groups, the educational community, the police office, the prosecutor's office, a representative of the emergency department for the tolerability of sexual abuse, and others to whom the minister considers it proper to consult. It's our hope to the highest. Ministers will present the General Assembly and the scheduled strategy no later than at the end of the May 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u42	A respectable president. In my second year at the University of Iceland law, very many years ago, I learned a court of law. I even learned there. for the purpose and purpose of punishment and one of the goals was to create a violent influence in society, to scare people from committing crime. At that time, there was a very loud demand in the community on the level of child abuse punishment. Of course, the claim was due to the seriousness of such a violation in our society and has been in recent years. In the context of this discussion, it caught my attention, which we also learned in the penitentiary, how low it was in rape rates. She was, at least According to the statistics presented at that time, little or no. According to the statistics, men who had been sentenced to rape seemed unlikely to repeat their offenses even if the punishment for such offenses was extremely mild in comparison with the other offense and compared with the severity of the fracture. This raised the questions in the student's mind as to what was the point of adding punitive punishment if they were only doing well as they were, when they seemed to have the power to give them, anyway, in part. Why, then, would they have to be weighed down? These questions later sparked my master's essay on law, which I returned a few years later, in 2009. I considered them perfectly clear, and I still believe that the reason for such wrongdoing was as much of a social problem as there was a witness, who had initiated a wave of crushing punishments for such a offense, would not be that those guilty of such offenses simply had no concern about punishment because it was not so bad. One year in prison, no problem, I'll go for it. No. The problem lay and lies elsewhere. Here, let me stress that it was in 2005, over 16 years ago. The problem is, punishment isn't heavy enough. The problem lies in a profound cultural challenge that we still face, but also in the system we still live on, which was built up by adult men to solve the problems of adult men in the first place. Although the system has developed to some extent and changed over time, it is still in every shallow sense behind an extremely unsatisfactory, not to mention, to help control sexual abuse and sexual violence. This system needs to make radical changes and totally tolerate its basic thinking, and it will be more radically altered than it is seen in the Senate arrangement. The motion is merely the most necessary steps to get started with a problem that has been fixed in spite of a loud call for years and even decades. There are defects that make our system bad to deal with this serious problem in our society, and it is clear that some changes can be made to improve. The changes presented here are absolutely minimal and only all the necessary items are needed to improve the system as it is. I think we're all in this room, and another what. People outside him can agree on these steps. On the contrary, I expect the matter to be given extensive support to this council and to a group of political interests. I want to thank you. A senator for taking the initiative to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u43	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Hyun Ólafsson is eager to present this matter and to tell his story. It is imperative that people tell their story and their experiences about the system. And at the same time you feel and get bad, I also admire the person that it does, because it's very important to all of us. I appreciate the fact that this matter is scheduled, and I expect it and I know it is a matter that we will discuss during the coming council and Congress. I think this council proposal will go to what? General and Education Committee, Madam President. I'll lead them to a committee, and I'll look forward to taking the initiative for a discussion. When I review the report, which in many respects is very useful - interesting figures presented there, compared with other North countries - I think we on the Committee need to undergo a considerable analysis of the position of this class. I would also like to point out that at 149 C.E., I asked the local Justice Minister for any more funding to this seminary had returned to the police. As a result, I was given the opportunity to visit the sex crime department in the capital area and learn more about their changing practices. It is possible to read from the answer given during this assembly a very tangible result in a number of cases and a faster recovery period. We are, however, far from doing well, for of course, all of these matters are meant to get progress in the system, to get attention and tolerability to get the help that can be offered in this regard. I'm just saying, I'm going to make a good effort to review this synonym and I expect us to do a good and detailed story on it on the Committee, calling for information from the system. Like what? A senator made a good impression on them, and there has been a plan of action going on. The operation program was created in the past by the highest level. Minister of the Ólöf Nordal, and since then, the plan has been followed by a number of advisers. It's exactly what we're working on, and I think what we're going to see here is overexcellently good food into that job. I see that a lot of senators are among the movers, and I find that and I expect this room to have a great contingency that we want to do so much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u44	Madam President. I'd like to come up here to celebrate the Council's resolution and to address the action against sexual abuse and to increase the support of their tolerance. My knowledge is that it is a very urgent and important matter, and I am so glad that it is handled here at this point, that it is both more important and equally sensitive. I'm glad we've reached the place here to discuss this second fine synopsis that stands before the council. I'd also like to thank you for the detailed and excellent report that follows, it's a very useful document, and I encourage senators to study it well. It has a wide range of information that is useful and useful to gain insight into this series of subjects and the subject. As a police officer in nearly 25 years of age, I have received insight into this group of litigators. So I am fully aware of the severity, wounds, and sequelae for which tolerance victims have to work and, in many cases, for years and in some cases throughout life. I agree with what the bill says on the importance of the police sex crime investigation as well as access to the ongoing training of police officers and police personnel. I'm especially welcome to this and to the section where there's talk of the availability of ever-time education, both police and police personnel within the agency. All too often we're too busy with the police themselves, but forget that within the ranks of the police, there is an enormous amount of specialists and civil employees who, of course, need their education and often come to this party as much as the police themselves do. I'm really happy about this. I also agree with what is stated in the report on a number of police officers, that the level on the table will be the same as increasing police force. I completely agree with that approach and that conclusion. In recent years police have called for an increase, particularly in the research departments, regarding these issues, the sex crimes, which are difficult and complicated in research. It takes a man to go through these things, and I can't see any other way than then, if he wants to do something better, to increase significantly the hands that work in this business. This was combined with a sexual fracture treatment plan, which went into force for 2018 until 2022. It was combined with funding for most of the state's office, the services with research departments - and I tell the majority of them because the sexual offenses in the Northern West are being investigated by the North African Police and, as a result, their status there was greatly improved. But I'm just saying, it's better if it's enough. We need to do better, that's for sure. If we are to get ahead of ourselves, we need to resist this group. So I welcome this important bill, and I support it wholeheartedly and accept its importance, as shown in this fine counciling proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u45	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a Synod proposal to take action against sexual abuse and to increase support for those who tolerate it. Thank you. Ólafsson I'm going to thank you for giving up the Senate resolution. This is an enormously important subject, and I am glad that this is a meeting at the General Assembly. As we have seen in this discussion, the main factors of the matter are the shortness of the trial, increased support for those who endure, and increased support for the free society that supports this important group. A study report will also be provided to include a study report on sex crimes in the justice system, current outcomes and problems, as well as the subsequent recommendations for improved court treatments. At the same time, it is suggested to consider how to secure reforms from the State. Madam President. Sadly, though, victims often hold back from making a crime - related complaint. It is more important than tears to experience the anguish and grief caused by those who suffer from fractures, and with all unsatisfactoryness that the experiences of the system are really out of the question that it is better to carry their grief quietly. This is a matter for which the whole world of Congress can unite. It's not about politics. It's about taking selfish emphasis in the community. So I support the assumption wholeheartedly, hoping that a world of Congress will follow through on the matter. Once again, I thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson and the person on the case, expecting him to make rapid and reliable paths.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u46	A respectable president. It's time for toleration. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Hólun Ólafsson for saying this. I am also grateful that it will be possible to appear at the beginning of the Parliament so that we can take the discussion and go to the depth. The article is really good, as others have said here, and I encourage as many as possible to study this matter. - Thank you for sharing your story with us. Sadly, I, like many others, know these stories and experience on my own. Tolerance has long been waiting for actual legal improvements, so I agree that there is a need for improvement in the system's violational status. I take my heart to make the matter necessary for the offender. Of course, the fact that a serious offense against a person does not mean that he is really involved. This needs fixing. I also expect that a court official's position will be improved, but it is customary for a woman to do this work and thus not be paid for the real time they take care of these matters because the nature of the matter according to the facts is very difficult. It also needs to be adjusted just to raise these issues a little. The current sexual abuse strategy is good, but I hope that the next plan will be ambitious, it will be successful, and all its actions will be carried out. So we need to take good care of things here. At the end, I just wanted to say, "I believe those who endure, and I stand by those who endure. "
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. Thirteenth. We're out of Suðvest. So much for trusting us in her story, it's important. It's important for what we're talking about here, thank you. It is important that we look at this group as a whole. The problem is serious, and we need to examine it from the interests of those who suffer from it as well as from those who are do so. It is beneficial for us to achieve this speed of speech and to supply better tools to police departments and better working conditions to guide the way we take the first steps into such research. The first steps taken in this study are of utmost importance to the outcome of the cases then to the courts. I'd like to state that much has been achieved, as we've seen here, and the police are all doing their best, we know exactly. Everyone is doing their best in the situations they have, we have to list that as well. But we also need to prepare the right tools for handling these and other issues, and it is vital that we do so promptly. Then it is important that we put our hands on the task of increasing the number of policemen. This is often the key to our being unable to do better in an investigation. I agree with the person who was before me in this talk chair when it comes to the saying that the sufferers are not part of their own business. They have the legal standing of a witness in their own case, and that situation is unacceptable. Justice keepers also receive limited information from police in such cases, and no longer can be overlooked. Courtkeepers perform an amazing task, and in some way they achieve an incomprehensible way of getting information to secure the witness, the victim, a better trial in their own criminal situation. We have outstanding experts in this field and through the development of the services centers of violent service, such as Bjarkargömund, Birmahund, Akureyri, and Sigurgis in Selefossi, we have been able to give them much more support and to give them a stronger voice in the community. How sad, though, to see recent developments! We have to be able to do so much better in this category, and that's what we have to do. The senator is making an offer. I support the whole mind of this council arrangement, and I hope we get some benefit in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u48	A respectable president. I now recommend that I hold the fourth or fifth time for this important bill. This does not include appointing a committee, examining the matter, or appointing a group to consider one of the most important matters that we need to deal with, which is related to the fishing resource of the nation, although some people would like to understand things differently. We experience that the situation remains stable, year after year, and nothing is happening because it is a calm, stable government during the last term, and it continues, there is no need to be involved in this system, despite the fact that in 90% of the people there are disagreements that this is a good, just system. More than 90% of the people say, "Dear Generals, beloved government, do you want to change the system for all of us, not that it's just for some people like it's been too long?" Today, the entire population is blessed to be caught on a lucky scale when we observe the fast - moving process. The projections, the export companies, the up-to-date companies can, fortunately, be able to hold on to the centres and collect valuables for national preparation, but at the same time, they are not paying for this private use of the resource as they should. This is an enormous concern, to see that year after year, and now with this government, that there is really little more to be done than a few things to do. Let us recall that the commission has been made to provide tremendously important guidance, such as the 2000 resource committee, a transnational committee that produced a great deal of work under Jóhannes Nordalur's leadership, with the guidance very clear. There, political powers, but also stakeholders, could be seen to change the system, at any rate only to meet understandable criticism stakes on this other important system. I don't get tired of saying that the whole Icelandic fishing system, in this big movie, is good. There are certainly baits at what can be removed. You can listen more carefully to certain viewpoints associated with the exchange of both sector and sectoral factors. But, of course, the main thing to do is to ensure that the fishing of the resources, real national property, is that this beautiful word of national possession has something of value, of any value. The 2000 Resource Committee provided clear guidance on how to put confidence in this fundamental feature of the nation's right to the resource and we would not be supporting it - and it has been 21 years - this injustice, this insecurity, and the uncertainty that the nation faces, whether it really has the means to secure its own rights, or whether it is the way the out of the water, with the tail and hail in all the matters that connect with the seabed. But it takes a political will to change. The richest committee showed a parapolitic will, then, also the interests organization. Three, four years later, his name had been changed, not his course. Their policy is, in fact, the one that now rules under this present government, rather a small fishing fee paid and no one wants to ensure the true control of the nation over the sea resources. The richest committee emphasized the need to make temporary contracts, unequivocally ensuring that the resource belongs to the nation. Of course, since then there have been additional suggestions to provide the nation with a legitimate price for this private use of the sea resources. It has indeed proved to be disastrous. It has not been said to go very transparent, simple ways, some avenues that I would have thought would be the least of the groups who believe in freedom, who believe in the market, would go, a group that believes that the market is a measure, a control device to achieve the true value. But even the markets cannot be trusted to determine the prices on our common resource because it is not likely that the market would say: "Hey, my friends, you've paid way too little for decades for this private use, and we, the market, are going to cover the fishing resources much higher. Not likely. Economics have calculated that at least it is unlikely that this would be the case. double the price paid today. With a new government, which is the old government, there will be little change. A panel set and not even clear whether it should be a parapolitic job, whether it should allow other views to come to the table. It won't be determined until you've gone down to the University of 35. Asking the European Commission what they want. Then the case will be evaluated first. That's all ambition. But I must say, speaking of ambition, speaking of determination, that you have the highest hope. High school minister, she's there. As I disagreed with her in her approach and the management of the health system, she has been powerful for her grass roots, her ideals, and her background on the fact that state of the health system, such as her strength, has not been fully used. As an independent health professional, be reluctant to negotiate with independent psychologists, physical therapists, speech pathologists. It has been very stable in this direction of the left green and has been allowed to remain completely unsatisfactory in a government of two health groups, independent category and forward. They have just as much responsibility that today we have a waiting list in the medical system, we have a Hospital that is not able to open up well enough and care for all because the hospital is not being cared for over the years. The number of nurses has not been increased, the whole picture has not been viewed. It's all the responsibility of the forward and independent party too. But because we saw the ideals of the left green, the ideals of the energy-rich woman, who is now a member of the marine and agricultural sector, we saw these ideals become reality in the Ministry of Health, and I hope that it will be the same follow-up as the same energy in the management of the marine economists and agricultural services that we all agree to go to the Ministry of Health on the part of the Ministry of Health, that it actually achieves rocking the boat, with full respect for important things that can be connected to the land - environment, climate, all the big things that we all agree to do, and I hope that the opportunity to push the climate and environment into the land and land, and become new things that it may be done to be replaced by the sea and not to be forgotten. I have missed in both the policy debate and in certain discussions of a new government and minister not looking at the injustice that exists in the marine environment. I hope this team will be followed, I hope that they will gain independence and self-inflicted self-improved elements, they will actually be trying to achieve reconciliation, actually trying to reach the public, reaching this level to 90% who are surgingly shouting dissatisfactions and organization of the marine system, especially when it comes to the resource charge. That's perfectly clear. I believe that this can be done if one wants to. Only one group has shown real desire to establish contracts in the marine road, to follow the Council of Resources Commission since 2000. This card showed some of the difference between the two games. In 2017, all classes then, men were willing to set it down. And I'd like to remind you, too, that it's the highest. The secretary of the wood for Sigurður Ingi Jóhannesson, chairman of the Agency, gave a bill in the 2013/2016 government, which included contracts. That matter, however, was stopped. That matter was stopped at the Council of Independence. That case was also stopped by the fishing road. However, the proposal was made, and the contributions made by the panel on the transnational committee, so the forward category is ready for temporary negotiations through the legislation like green. Then the Independence Party remains, and there we must publish something when it comes to fishing. This is an enormous and important issue that we are discussing, that we actually clean up so that we guarantee the efficiency, the value, efficiency, the natural use, the sustainable development of the system that is so important and so important to us that we take care of it, while the sea route is about to pay more for the resource. And my friends, you who are now catching fur, you who have been working out the resources for us and for our national preparation, you can pay more to the community. You're supposed to see your dignity in doing that. You're supposed to take the initiative and step forward to make peace with the people because you're having this beach on you. It's my message to those who are in the fishing exits and, as I'm saying, have resources and, as I say, the exclusive right to use and to hunt from our common fishing resource. On one hand, a temporary agreement, a market fee for fishing. But it takes more to trust in the system's credibility and to encourage the public's confidence in it, that it is not cheating on the system, that there is a state of transparency, that the state of the state is a just marine process that still encourages practicality, encourages us to encourage companies to invest, and it has done with tremendous success in my opinion. We're seeing overexploited diversity and great innovations in the seabed. We have to make sure it stays that way. We who are in favor of competitive business ventures, we need to be careful, but free trade, competition, using resources such as this is not going to work if the public's sense of fairness is offended, if the public realizes that it is different, year after year, decade after decade. And again there is a government that has little intention of doing anything but appointing a committee and perhaps taking on the minimal factor that needs to be done. We will keep the government on the subject. We will continue, over and over, asking these questions, focusing attention on factors related to fishing, both positive and more successful. We will continue to ask for reports, making sure that they are not sitting on them and pointing out what has been changed to hide something. We will continue to do this as we did the entire last terms. I'm measuring this case back to fourth or fifth, a fourth time at least, and we're here with pragmatic and easier ways to improve the system, not necessarily find the bike again and again, but what really helps the system and makes it more transparent and efficient. That's a bill. I'm gonna go over it a little bit. says the report so that people can get a better idea of what they are talking about. This has something to do with the overall sector. This is linked to transparency, who are linked to persons, etc. This bill is reassigned somewhat unchanged, and it has a threefold purpose. First, therefore, it is aimed at increasing the transparency of financial information with the requirements for registration of an up-to-date stock market. It's very important. Second, this includes a requirement for the possession of larger manufacturing companies. There's always talk about it, and I don't know how many speeches I've heard. Councilmen here, from time to time, to counsellor's will, but there's nothing done. This bill makes it possible, and it's easy. We've been over this many times. Thirdly, the bill remarks in a clearer way than the current law peaks in a pan-European region that individual members or linked persons can expect. In 1990, new fish government laws were passed on to the government of the forwarding squad, the Common Community, the Allied Party, and the Civil Party, which included regulations for the free supply of resources. This has been followed by many criticisms, especially of the left. So I don't agree, I think one of the important functions of the system is to continue the free expeditation of the resources of the network, to make the most of both investments and funding, but not least to make the use of the resources that will be the best use of. We see results in this, and that includes. The result that we changed this in 1990, led by a left government, led by a left man in its time. The result has not been blessed. I remember that using each cod has been less than 50%, but today it's about 80%, and we're still finding ways to make use and get valuables, increasing the variety of fish by all means, through innovation, through evolution, and so on. This is part of it. It is possible to create a control device that promotes valuable creation, increased production, research, evolution, and innovation. When 1990 was shown that there was significant improvement in the quality of management and efficiency, including By the fusion of enterprises, the then state of the Independence Party and the forwarding of a team in 1998 saw that regulations were set up in the law to measure the maximum catcher sector of each projection and 12% of total resources. At the same time, the size of the holding part in individual production companies was expected to be limited to 20% of the total share of resources above 8%. That law was later canceled in 2002 for the administration of the same categories of government. So it was never a test. The purpose of the new provision from 1998 was just to contribute to the scattered ownership, that was the purpose of the Lawgiver then, and to prevent the collection of resources on few hands. During that time, all construction companies were well below the limits required by the law. It's a little different from today's, but the largest group owned a total of 4.81%. As for the legislation in 1998, at the General Assembly, profound differences arose over the evacuation of the regulations in 2002, resulting in a breakdown of the requirement for distributing the ownership of all the largest companies. Since then, the trend has taken place, despite the change, but perhaps even so. Because of it, there has been some economic economy in the seas outside all technological development that has had a significant impact on the way we drift from sea to sea today compared to 2002, I now do not speak about 1992 or 1982. However, several companies are now approaching this limit, and it is a significant matter of whether the requirement for 50% of ownership is required, in order to be linked, sufficient to meet the law's targets. It is possible that real authority may be playing a game in some cases, even if property is below 50%. Or it can affect another person's business with loans or financial support. In this respect, experience has shown that there is evidence to further settle these laws so that they can accomplish their purpose. In this case, it is normal that larger markets should be registered in the general stock market in order to provide better protection in the management of information and trade through stock markets. As an enterprise is registered in the general stock market - and you, of course, rejoice when you see these steps - a firm hold is at the disposal of the stock market, and it's a bit strict, fostering great resistance. There is also reason to reinvent ideas of limited maximum ownership in all of the largest companies or 10%. This ratio refers to the definition of the track No. 161/2002, about financial companies, has an active stake in an enterprise. To meet these targets, a major change is expected in the bill by viewing a person as related in the sense of the law if one party has more than 1% or more of the total capital and another in 10% of the capital or more in the above. This means that if a 10% share is involved in a factory company where one party has an share of 1% or more of the total share share, they are put together to determine if it exceeds the limit. This also applies if this is how the indirect possession is used. It is also proper to count contacts if someone has more than 1% of total resources and demands on the other person so that the above may affect the situation. Ideas are obliged to inform the Fishing Room on such a connection. Wait a minute. Senators to bear in mind that this may build even the same thing. on legal balance, similar to what happens in the case of a financial enterprise requiring contracts for members related to each other. It is then assumed that all manufacturing companies that carry 1% of the total resources and more should be registered in a structured stock market. This requires more transparency on information, as I had previously thought, and trade with stocks and more distributed property. At the same time, it is assumed that in eugenic companies which have an 8-12% share share share share, no party, subject, room or partner, more than 10% of the share, stock or voting rights in the respective Member State. This directive is aimed at preventing further integration of Member States in all of the largest developed enterprises. That's what matters. If we look at the contents of these songs, I think this can be true. Meeting the popular demand that there be an increase in justice in the shipwork and orderliness of the fishing road. The regulations of the bill are in addition to the requirements already stated in the current law. So they remain uncut. The bill is primarily a factor in larger companies. Their possibilities for further compression are narrowed from what is available and their demand for distribution and transparency is considerably greater. The time has come for us to set out clear and rich demands on the spread of property and transparency in the fishing field. Small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, have the same potential as before for managing business by uniting. It is not agreed that the requirements for registration of the general stock market or the limitations of the stock market of the individual stockholders in all the major business organisations would interfere with operating management. It's very hard to see that there are obstacles. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen to study what is said in the bill itself on such articles as 1st and 2 paragraphs. This bill from us at Upstate. But I'm stressing that it is time, though earlier, that we take firm and clear steps to expand, to increase transparency, but notably to increase justice in the sea espionage, so that the nation can not only secure its national share, a natural payment for the purpose of the resource, but the order of the nation must be in a way that the people had confidence that it would underline the rational management of the seas, granting the marine outposts the opportunity to develop, develop and advance the best of our common marine resources because at the same time the nation knew that it would be well with the resources and that it would be given a fair price.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u49	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of history. There are a few things in the bill that I would like to pray for. A senator to dig a little deeper into the rest of his life, and his first focus is on the discussion, such as previously taken, in connection with compression. The compression has appeared to me to be the most and fastest when there is uncertainty in the marine environment. I think of myself and what. A senator debates the uncertainties of this approach, but I would like to pray. A senator is going a little deeper into the speculations involved in the compression process, as it seems to me that, as I say, when uncertainty is the fastest complex. The bill says, with President's permission: The main focus of the telecommunication is on larger companies. On the other hand, their ability for further compression is limited [...] to smaller and medium-sized enterprises have the same potential as before for managing business by being united. See what? A senator saw that this would be the development this bill would produce, that smaller companies would unite in the larger but not to the largest, as may have been the development, when the uncertainty situation has been moving forward together? And I'd like to ask you why. A senator about what she came on about the design of hunting fees, that people were snooping at dissatisfaction by the exchange of hunting fees which I think could be totally possible to argue. But either way. A senator even imagined that they would be more bound to the areas where the work would be done. [[The president calls.]] Instead of regularly turning them away from government funds, each area took the fight to get something back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For these questions, the Bergþór of Ólason. I know he's got a lot of insight into corporate business, including... A fishing plant, and here he speaks of knowledge. I think the questions are a key to this matter. To the second question. I just want to draw out right away that it is on course Welcoming to go market route, which some say is an auction route. A certain item is offered each year. Three percent could be offered, meaning that we were making temporary contracts until 33 years of age, or 4%, which meant a 25 - year contract. But the price of a market auction for these 3, 4 or 5% went to that resource fund or Industry Fund. We have repeatedly, in both elections and our policy, referred to the construction of the Industry Fund, to link the payment to the areas in the seas, to invest in the infrastructure. That is why we have mentioned the inner treasure, saying: "Let's connect this with the areas where the fishing has been done. Not everyone agrees with us and tells us that we're going to have all this money. Well, at least I think it's wise. so that this will also become part of the reconciliation into the infrastructure. We also see this elsewhere, part of the fish fire, where there is a variation of the same theme. But I think it'd be good. In terms of the greatest compression in uncertain times, I don't know if there's a lot of uncertainty about making companies when an independent group and forwarding party handles the situation, i.e. is much more associated with uncertainty of urban development. how Europe's urban development, the number of people in certain areas, results in pressure, especially in smaller companies and smaller projects to unite. But I think it's in itself the good thing for a company to get united and try to make business. [[The president calls.]] It affects other factors, such as the way we use the resource as such, to the extent possible. [[The president calls.]] I come to other factors in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I might want in this context, and after a previous answer, because I know what it is. A senator will continue with a material answer to past questions, add to the Pulmonary: Do not be the big and strong ones today who always have room under the roof in a position of superiority, at least in the strongest position, to get the rights of the market according to the auction route? I see that's going to be the most likely development, but we'll see what's going to happen. In addition, I wanted to ask him why. A senator whether it is available and whether there have been an analysis of the number of enterprises which need to be replaced by holding on to these rules, will perform them, and how many companies have to be registered on the market on the basis of the 1% principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u52	A respectable president. Only about the auction route. I'd love to hear that, for example. used in the context of SFS as a measure of fear, that there will be a tremendous compression in the fishing road. Compulsion has occurred. No one is measuring against compression, just as long as it doesn't cross this target as long as it's transparent, as long as it's just in the way we collect the money for the resource, our common resource. If you do this, I think it's going to get a lot more comfortable across the seaside than before, and I think there's a lot of money in it. In addition, temporary agreements are enormously important, and I would have thought that it was desirable for the water because, in fact, there is a greater unpredictable need for the resource now than having contracts until the age of 25, 30 years. I think temporary contracts are a great deal of money for the development. I'm not worried about it through the auction route that it's going to be a compression, because the rest of it says there's gonna be a rule on top of the major division, and if you're in it, you can't enter it. I rather believe this will strengthen the position of SMEs in this process while the arrangement is unchanged. Therefore, translucency is so important that it does not exist today. Not enough for today. We can also see this bus, which was about our reporting request Review on the possession of seafood companies in other employment companies. It's about trust. It's about credibility. This bill is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u53	Madam President. In the fishing industry, it has often been so, so it has been shown about solutions set out to meet the overall dissatisfaction of the system that it is likely to hang a baker. Those who face and have to adapt to the solutions are those who remain in business, but irritability, so to speak, is against those who sell themselves and take money out of the fishing road. Is it not, in effect, encouraged that the people are going out of this business, which they in themselves are the best for their good results, by forcing them either to sell part of the fiscal section or to file an enterprise which they could possibly continue in a family tenet or some limited group?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u54	A respectable president. No, not really. If we look at the story today, we can lead to at least Three companies going over 12% of the labor department. They must simply do so in a transparent way and comply with the rules we have already set for them. But they are actually taking a mountain back when it comes to sharing in total resources with us Icelanders. So I don't think it's gonna be a good idea to get these big and strong ones to go out of the story, except then, I think that it's exactly the right thing to show them that they can live by the rules, the natural rules that are set. I'm sure that they're also willing to do something about these matters, except that they can pay more than that. They can pay more, and we have seen tremendous profits in the past ten years primarily through the ocean fish, through the mackerel and now the hairy. It's just it's time to face the fact that the access to the resource is not paid enough. [[The president calls.]] The people of justice are offended.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u55	Madam President. I hereby recommend a judicial hearing on the provision of a radio fee. A moving man with me is a boy. paritaprevir The Count Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and as a means to understand it, the Parliament's proposal for currency, individuals, and businesses will be granted authority to account for up to one third of the radio fees that the person cares for every year's tax returns, rather than for all this revenue, all of this fee goes to State Radio. All the taxables in Iceland, individuals and lawyers pay special fees to the State Radio, the radio bill that is applied to the pressures of public pay each year. The taxable individuals are laid down according to Article 1. legal on income taxes and taxpayers who carry an independent tax law on income taxes, other than death, swelling farms, and the taxpayers according to Article 4. Same song. Exceptionally, they are those who are not to be put under the pressures of a special fee in the elderly's labour fund or are to be paid off at 2 mg. 10th par. the law on the affairs of the elderly. The price goes to a fixed amount determined by law. There is now a suggestion that this price will be $18800. next year, which is an increase of 500 bucks. or 2.7%, if I remember correctly. It is a nasal tax that no taxable person can escape. It doesn't matter whether he can use the Kingdom TV media, whether he accepts it, or whether he understands it at all. This proposal suggests that there will be changes in the laws on the State Radio, the media in the public sector, No. 23/2013, which includes a changed arrangement for the collection of radio charges. It is suggested that the people have freedom of choice for the provision of a portion of this price. Thus, by means of their contributions, they can guarantee certain diversity in the media of the country. By sitting alone in this currency, the State Radio has held a superior position toward all other media, and this is true of news movement as a program. Such a monopoly, especially a Kingdom publisher, is unnatural today and directly counters the idea of independence and diversity of thinking and thinking. In 1st. the law on the State Radio is that their objective is to promote democratic discussions, cultural diversity and social cohesion in the community through public media services. Thus, radio programs are entrusted with the implementation of this government policy. It is a national medium, fulfilling its varied role in professionalism, ambition, honesty, and respect. Then they should cultivate Icelandic language, culture, history, and cultural heritage. It is the opinion of the carriers that in order for the State Radio to fulfill this obligation, there must be room for other powerful media at the market. This refers to the media that can provide the State Radio, while increasing the variety of social talk and further enhance the public's understanding of it. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2007/65/EC shows that the press lock is about making consumers safe and effective use of the media. The impact of the media on the community is so extensive that consumer media lock is one of the basic pioneers that they can be considered valid and active citizens in a democratic state. Giving one member of the government's central lung from public media grants works against these goals. Lately, there have been many details that show that the rulers of the Kingdom News think they have self - discipline on how it works. Both the National Review and the Media Committee have repeatedly made serious comments on the activities of the Kingdom topic and on various legal conditions relevant to the Agency's management. In addition, in view of her legal duties, it can be noted that the Kingdom News is now nowhere near the same security role as it once was. Nasal tax, such as radio charge, is already recognized in the charge of parishes. It stipulates that national churches and registered religions and societies under the law on them should have a share in the income tax laid according to law on income taxes. Is it the choice of taxpayers to which congregation will pay? There should be no basis, therefore, for similar application of radio fees, e.g. so that the taxable party will specify the tax returns each time to direct the section of the radio fee. For years, it has been discussed to limit the state radio activities of advertising markets, thus supporting the free media. Such a move has not been established, as we know. Therefore, if you are a messenger of the proposal, take this approach to the free media in view, thus ensuring a healthy and varied national talk in your country. Therefore, we suggest that the Allied Council conclude to hide a travel, trade, and cultural minister in agreement with the minister of finance and economics, to provide a prime bill that will alter the provision of radio fees. The change is that it is permitted to account for up to one third of the budget for each of the radio companies other than the state radio as it chooses. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill go to the highest level. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Just before the talk, Bergthish Bergþór of Ólason is so happy that we are discussing the media. Of course, we can do so in a slightly larger context than he did in his talk. I understand very well the thought behind what is being suggested here, and it is that we have the position in the media market, that the State Radio, especially when it comes to the bright light, is a huge party, take a huge amount of money from the state, and we are on the other side of the board forever talking about the state of the media sources who feel that they are falling apart in the competition and that their position needs to improve. I agree that there is a need to strengthen the position of the individual media. I do not agree, however, that this is to be done by weakening the Kingdom Radio. I think it's much closer to discussing the state of the State Radio on a commercial market, as has just been entered. In many ways, this has been slow. You can agree with that. But such a way, along with other possible measures to strengthen private media, would be much more successful if I thought, and I would like to reason only on why. When speaking of a position of superiority, we need to keep in mind various things, so that they can be made up of the State Radio that has a role in society and duties that private authorities do not have. This role and responsibilities are of utmost importance to me. It is too often that when we discuss the state of the Kingdom News, we are talking about the role of the news organization. After working on the medium for a long time, I know that the work it is doing when it comes to cultural role and communication on a variety of subjects other than just news items is quite amazingly large and much of the work. If we were to establish it today, I'm not necessarily sure, but it's something to take up a discussion in the Agency rather than a way here. We'll see if we look at this, and now we're coming into what's so important whenever we're discussing these things, what a very small market Iceland really is. Making important cultural material, writing history, and holding it all over for future generations calls for human resources, equipment, and expenses. This is more expensive for the small than for millions of communities. For example, the Kingdom Radio News news agency is not much bigger than just some powerful news bulletins in the world's largest mediums. The size difference is completely credible. So even though it's the highest level on Icelandic standards, it's just about what it takes to record history, hold on to culture, and produce all the great cultural elements it produces. I mention Channel 1 specifically during radio broadcasts, and of course we see on the national television program programs that would never be in the air on private media. It's just the most natural thing in the world. But we want this material recorded, produced, and moved into a medium, and I strongly believe in that. When I was younger, I didn't have that opinion. At that time, I felt no reason for the State to work at what I called them a competitive market, but the competitive part is just a small part of the overall picture, in my opinion. Thus, the supreme position must be considered in the light of our small market and the role and duty of the Kingdom News. Then there is another aspect in this context, and it all hangs. We have big, or growing, so let's say, a sector of film making. We are also a little involved at the council, both in terms of the budget, in order to form reimbursement for the production done at home, and there are suggestions for setting up a flow band to keep the culture under control and make it more accessible to the public. All of this is connected with the fact that there are powerful media around here. A powerful government radio makes a specific side product, which is this associated with filmmaking, since there are an amazing number of companies involved in many projects, including to produce the Kingdom News or to care for a variety of technical services, to operate on individual factors, or other activities that also come into use in the unity then thought of filmmaking or even advertising or otherwise, so this sector hangs a little bit together. I think in such a small community as Iceland, we should and should have a strong, powerful national radio and we don't have, as I think it would be the result of the proposal we're discussing here, to weaken the state radio to strengthen the other part. I don't think it's the right approach. Then, in my mind, we would be losing something to the sector I was calling here, which is this growing film sector, which is also involved in the services of foreign parties who come here to film and factor and other things. So even though it's not the thought behind the proposal or the idea here today, it'd be the result of the fact that all of this would get weaker. When we discuss The Kingdom News, we keep in mind that its role is much bigger and more important than we often experience in public discussions. I know there's a lot of money going on to State Radio. I generally believe that these institutions of our culture, the largest and most successful, should be our best support. However, this is not the way we have the arrangement, and I agree with it. A senator and a court official that the state is some stifling hand on this market. This should not be so that the government is removing oxygen from all private sources. So I'm very happy that we're having this discussion, but I think we have to take it all into context; The State TV, private media, filmmaking, and all the big business that's going on here. I'm not gonna keep this for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u57	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's winning his speech. Hv. A senator who knows what the U.S. Radio stands for said right here in his speech - I think it's correct, at least. In essence, with President's permission: If we were to establish the Kingdom News today, it would be different than it is now. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's role in today's activities would likely be either cut off or made by private agents or in some form that is not won in the Top Search. At the same time, there was a reason. A senator's part in his speech is that the role of the Kingdom News was, of course, as we know it, including the one we know. To create cultural material and to preserve culture. But as for the point of creating cultural material, it seems to me that over the past considerable years, it has been most successful to make an excellent, excellent Icelandic culture and television. And often it's a private person who makes it, possibly with some kind of contract or sale through state radio. But, in any case, powerful private people are doing great things all over town. It's not what. A senator agrees with me that while financing would not directly go to the State Radio but would be likely to act as both an incentive for the State Radio Radio to keep things better - without me suggesting that the Government Radio is about to become a perfect fanny media - and that it would also be an incentive for local authorities, who are in the production of cultural material, to improve further? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. In itself, I'm not going to draw up some new model because of the way I think The Kingdom News should be. Everything is changing in the community, and the Kingdom broadcast was, of course, established at the time, has changed since some change, and we cannot overlook the fact that there is some kind of interference between the state radio and the private media. We need to deal with it, not by weakening the Kingdom Radio but by strengthening the other unity. I'm not going to say that it should not produce this factor or the other or not have this station or that Channel 2 should be different or not; I'm not going to make any assessment of it. I'm just saying, we're not supposed to be afraid of these changes, and we're not supposed to think that the State Radio, like any other community, is some model that we make once and for all, and so it should be forever and ever. Surely we need to take into account that this is a market and business that is on the move, not just here in the country, but all over the world. There are digital changes and all kinds of technological advances that, of course, require some of them. The cultural elements I'm talking about don't have to produce everything in a house on VOLV. There are certain rules and conditions that require that some of them be made outside the home, and that is in order to strengthen little producers who can sell their material there or even sell a service to the State Radio. So it can all hang out. I'm just saying, let's not give up the Kingdom Radio to strengthen the others. Let us keep the Kingdom News as strong as we can, further strengthening the other unity. I am absolutely convinced that this is how we get the most money and that this will also result in the most cultural value. And I believe that we are all here in this hall pretty much agree that we have a considerable obligation to make sure that the cultural institutions of society are protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u59	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm not entirely sure that I agree that the State Radio needs to get sick, even if it decreases. Many become more sharp and efficient after dieting. May I go to one of these myself? Hv. In his talk, a senator suggested that the State not be like a stifling hand on the market. That's the clear description of the private people who are in what is the hardest fight with the State Radio, between them. I don't think there's any doubt in the discussion that the private media companies think they're in a rather complicated position in terms of their communication with the National Radio. I'm happy for it, and I agree with it. A member of the council concluded that this discussion on the development of Kingdom Hall Radio should take place within the TV station. I think it should take place here with us, because the State Radio was set up on the basis of legislation, and it's the General Assembly that has the legal authority, and we should not be afraid to take this discussion in this house. So I'm celebrating a point of view. Senator. Hv. A senator made it clear that no one should weaken RUV; he needed to strengthen a private person. I'd like to ask you what. A later senator answers in an answer to how he saw it best happen today. In fact, I'm looking for a short time, since the profile of private citizens is in such a way that they progressively grow older as the years go by in this work environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u60	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the questions I've been given. I agree that this must, no matter where we are, must really be a basic element; we should always look for ways to make the most of it. And if you can perform the same service, at least Similar service, let's say, for less money, of course, we should and should always. We've got a complete clearance point, i.e. taking care of the public's money. The government radio should not be unchangeable. It doesn't always have to be this size. But I've found it more reasonable to listen to the voices that speak for the fact that if there's to limit the state radio income institutions, whether it's a direct budget or its activities in a commercial market, there's going to have to be something to meet that guarantees that the services are being granted. It's really, I think it's the same as with the health system. This is really just a matter of being given a certain amount of service. If you can do it in a more cheap way, we can. But if it costs what it costs today, it's justifiable expenses. I am that opinion, and I agree with it -- of course, I've heard how the heads of the individual people share this competition. They don't think she's on equal terms, and I'm not going to belittle it. That's why I've felt that there was some way I could get rid of money at a commercial market, which private people might rather be sitting in some way, some good application that would suit both sides. In fact, I'm thinking that those who run the private media a little overrated that all the capitals that would no longer go to the advertisements of the RUS would necessarily go over to the private media. I think it's a little more complicated than that. As long as we haven't found some permanent future arrangement, I fully support the way we follow and are constantly discussing whether a direct budget of the state's funds is a way of meeting the problems of the environment, because they are truly important in society, just as the Government Guidebook - and even less. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u61	Madam President. Because I can't offer a third answer to what I have to say. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson then I decided to give a short speech. There are certainly some factors. In answer to his objection, a senator made a difference in this discussion. You see, there are other actions. Other measures involved in these activities have taken over the past few decades to a large extent in the media. We have a wide range of surveillance and reporting, as well as what these media have to do with it, which is, of course, the expense for which the servers cannot make money. And because of what? In answer to that earlier, a senator said that it would be an option to reduce advertising income at the State Radio, but then there would be something else to come back to, I think there's something that needs to happen in the entire media environment. We need to look for ways to reduce the expense of those involved in this operation. A report was published in 2018, reminds me, I do not remember the exact date, where there were some possible methods published. It is possible to deal with insurance bills to employees. You can look to the way a little bit of credit is being done in the media, but what I think would be the most important and the fastest thing it would be to try to simplify their management environment so that they weren't under that stifling hand, as we put it earlier, that there was some monitoring program in a town that the press needed to demonstrate by regular reporting that they were doing their job. We know this only, the media are incontrovertible and incontrovertible, and I have nothing to worry about when people sit and write news with their own noses that they are just responsible for and the person's web is measured by the value of news in that medium. I think the groundwork that is put into this whole sector by means of the surveillance system is way too great and too unnecessary. We are to look for ways to simplify it, thus reducing the cost of the servers. And we are to look for ways that these sources will retain more of the income they can earn, e.g. by otherwise handling their income charge in terms of worth taxes, by having some appeals for insurance costs, and other ideas might be involved. But I think this talk about the big film would be well available here in the council sales, whether it was on committee or what the case was, but it could be related to the development of the State Radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u62	A respectable president. I would like to come up here to say that, of course, all ways are to have the media environment in Iceland that works effectively. It should not be submerged by some rule plan. And there, of course, there is monitoring, as in any other place, that it should not be too burdensome or that it should produce some unnecessary form of paperwork, which would better be spent with the media for some kind of program. But we must take into account the discussion that this is not a problem even if another community, of course, is involved in the change here. All over the world, servers are trying to get their feet in a changing technology world where the VAT models of the media have collapsed and otherwise. Of course, it's just a project that we have in our hands, and I so deeply agree that we're supposed to keep everybody out of the house trying to keep the regular work and environment so that it doesn't work that it doesn't prevent or cost the cost of something unnecessary. But I'm not saying that there should not be some kind of interference with the media. I would also like to remind you in this context that we must not - and I'm not saying that. A senator had been doing it, I'm just talking in general-- falling into the trap of going to classify the media as little or weak that didn't matter to big, responsible media and something like that. It's all part of a chain that matters. What I think may be trivial and trivial is important to someone else. A live, dramatic media market where, hopefully, people will be able to run the media so that they will be successful is a goal that we must look at in the media market, like any other job or anything else we're doing here when we discuss matters at council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u63	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. I hope I didn't get it wrong when I referred to the little servers, they're part of this chain. But my point was that we were not allowed to create some burdensome rulework that would be illogical because there was a need for special attention to some such media. That's the point. Then I express my joy with a firm stand. A candidate in terms of simplifying the network environment and the regular activities of the servers and the need for us to keep everything out of the way in order to improve the management conditions especially the private media. I've been thinking, in addition to what I mentioned earlier, that we should consider it very determined to find ways to tax such as These Internet advertisements. I think what happened next was right. A senator, that advertisements sent by the State Radio, so to speak, if those rules are changed, will not return all to the national media. It's right in front of us. We know all of us who watch the media and the Internet and those community media. I think we should take that trip, some nations have begun to look at it, and we're supposed to be on the bus that's at the front of the line there, and we're not afraid of it. We have the most associated nations in the world. Here's a good network lock, and we're in every position to set here a rule that could be relevant to these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u64	Madam President. I hereby recommend an interpretation resolution on the study of the incidence of cancer in the Southnes. Transporters include Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, Einarsson, and Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to assign a health minister to make a deal with Iceland's Research and Registrative Association for Cancer Study of the New Southnes as compared to the incidence of cancer in other parts of the country. The incidence of known risk factors for malignancy and finally reviews of reports as Keflavour Airport Development. has been treated for pollution in the area. A pooled report will be received that describes the types of cancer that are more common in Southnes as well as the common risk factors associated with their disease. The concentrations of pollutants in groundwater and soil will then be compared to the list of internationally approved particles. A report by the Secretary of Council for June 1, 2022, is submitted by a report by the General of the Council for the results of June 1, 2022. Madam President. If I next bring up a report with the motion, it says that this council proposal was submitted to the 151th legislature, the last legislature, and now brought forward again. It appoints a health minister to negotiate with Iceland's Research and Recording Society for the investigation of the incidence of cancer in Southnes, as compared to the incidence of other countries. According to a recent survey of farms and cancers at Iceland's Research and Recording Society of Cancer, Southnes had highest incidences of cancer of all sites in the country from 2009 to 2018. The motion is provided in a table showing the annual age range for the incidence of cancer at 100,000 people in 2009•2018. It shows that Southnes have highest incidences in men or 595 versus 539 in the capital area. In the East it's the lowest or 427. The same is true of women incidences. It is in the Southnes of 483 per 100,000 inhabitants, but in the capital area 478, the incidence is at the lowest in the West and in the East. So for both men and women, the Southnes are the highest incidence. In general, capital cities and larger cities may have been the highest incidence when cancer is compared to farming. In Iceland, however, Southnes have reached the capital area in men, and they are in a similar roleum to that of women in the capital area, even slightly higher in the Southnes. Of course, this is a concern, and it is very important to be put in the stitches on it. A total of over 1,000 cases of cancer were diagnosed during that 10-year period in Southnes. The distribution of cancer was similar to that of a national reference, i.e. The highest incidence of cancers was in the breast of women and male prostate, followed by lung and colon, in both genders. There was a high incidence of lung and cervical cancers, but studies on more types of cancers were not available. There is also an interest in further examining the potential contributing factors, both chemical and lifestyle factors. According to the surgeon general's public health, the frequency of smoking in Smokejanestown, e.g. a high relative to another site; and 85% of lung cancer is caused by smoking. It also shows that attendance for cervical cancer has been more relaxed there than elsewhere. Maybe this could play something into these numbers, but it's one of the things to go over. However, the cancer community believes that other causes cannot be excluded that any of the higher incidences can be explained, so it seems proper to review reports as the Chef Development Society. has been treated for pollution in the area. A complete report that describes the incidence and types of cancer that are more common in Southnes and that will have to be followed by evaluating the common risk factors associated with these diseases, which ultimately examine the concentrations of pollutants in groundwater and soil, as compared to the list of the World Institute for oncogenic studies. Madam President. I believe that it is necessary, and those who travel, to submit the synonym proposal so that the case will be thoroughly investigated. However, if there is a significant difference in the incidence of cancer between the Southnes and the capital area, it is important to identify the pathology and the potential causative factors. As I said at the outset, under normal circumstances Southnes should have a lower rate of cancer than the capital area. Transporters suggest that the HCP should have it investigated thoroughly and that it is reasonable to conclude that a contract will be made with the National Research and Registrative Cancer Society of Iceland, which has been involved in the investigation of the incidence of known risk factors for post-corporeal cancer and that the reports of the Keflavour Airport Development Society should be reviewed. With regard to pollution in the Southern region and, in fact, other reports I'll mention at the end. A pooled report will be met which describes the more common types of cancer in individual areas, along with the evaluation of common risk factors associated with their disease and, finally, the level of contamination in groundwater and soil, will be compared to the list of internationally approved cancers. It is suggested that the health minister submits a more thorough report with results for June 1, 2022. This is the main element of this council-sense proposal. Madam President. I'm here at the end of my plan to introduce only pollution cases in the old defense area that are presented in the proposed reports. A complete assessment of the environment in the area prior to the deportation of the defense team was published on August 3, 2006, and is available at the State Department. It is a vast report, and I encourage members of the Parliament to study it. There is a number of interesting points, including. There are data available from the Southern Health Organization, which also provides information on the level of pollution, carded and specified and what pollution is involved. The contamination is divided into two categories, i.e. discontinued and then acutely dangerous. There is no acute danger, but if it had been, experts would have been sent to remove it. The Cheflavor airport development union, which took over property and management in the old defense area, hired engineering agencies, which then supervised the removal of the worst sites of pollution and such materials as PCB were sent to Denmark. I understand that the worst pollution spots have been in the area of the Icelandic people, especially contractors, they have not been responsible for the defense. But it is proper to make it clear, Madam President, that the water supply in Southnes is very well handled. A new pool of water was recruited for approximately Thirty years, and the water in Southnes is very good. According to Southnesian Health Monitoring, samples are sent each year to Sweden for a very thorough investigation. As mentioned earlier, the location of this pollution is known. If performed at sites where pollution is known to be present, soil is removed, and this includes the removal of soils. conducted in what is now called a construction site. However, it is also true here, as a result of this resolution, regarding these pollution issues in the old area that in the spring of 2006, the State Department Department's public engineering agency offered to investigate all pollution studies in the region. At that time, the cost of cleansing was said to be several billion dollars. There was nothing left to deal with, so this work was not attacked, unfortunately. However, it is widely recognized that in the decades following war and toxins, dating in the old zone was bad, even being thrown away without being aware of the consequences. In fact, it is 2014 that reports are still coming from contaminated material from old watchpoints at Central Eccess and that there are areas that fall into a high - risk category. This is especially true of two areas. There are old zones on Stachnes south of Sanding, and on Ásbek, we have a frame of fire. It shows chemical measurements that various heavy metals and other pollutants are polluted by groundwater. These sites are specifically watched by the Southern Health Organization. But I just want to reiterate that the tap water had moved to a new place about 30 years ago and the drinking water is very good in this area. I considered it correct, Madam President, to establish only the pollution issues associated with this proposal because it is assumed that this will be reviewed, these reports will be reviewed, these data are available, and that the concentrations of these pollutants in the soil will be compared with the World Institute's list of oncological studies. I think this is very important in this report, which is proposed to be made up of the National Research and Recording Institute for Cancer Research in the South, as compared to the incidence of cancer in other parts of the country. This is what I'm saying, Madam President, I'm referring the case to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u65	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir This agreement on the investigation of the incidence of cancer in the Southnes to be presented with the offer of a delivery talk by the Birgir of Þórarinsson. I believe that this is an enormously positive suggestion for such an investigation, and I just want to say, "It's already time to do so. For decades, we have been concerned about the pollution that the U.S. Army on Centralside left behind and the impacts of pollution on the environment and on the inhabitants. It was early in 1973 that Einar Ingimundarson Ingalmurson charted the largest area known to be involved in a major pollution disaster in Central Ecstasy and made public health and defense officials aware of it, but nothing seems to have been done with that information. In 1985 the U.S. Army had water examined from the water supply of the field, a part of an international study conducted in U.S. Army operations following a campaign against contaminated drinking water in North America. The result led to the immediate closure of water supply in Njardíkík and Kefavík. Happily, new water sources were being used. This synonym is suggested to report them as the Keflavor Airport ehf Development Society. has had pollution done so in the field, so to speak. An executive in a U.S. U.S. report made in the area, and that's a good thing. I believe, though, that this should further expand the study area based on all the data available. The above - mentioned Astrophysicist Einar Ingimundarson Igummarson and Hjartarson Geologist Abilologists have charted this area, and this may include: Study their work in Dagnar, the journal of the Association of War Controllers, since 1992. I think it's normal that when you go to this sort of important investigation, we'll use all the data you know has been put together on the subject. Madam President. I have to admit, I was a little surprised when I saw what hit me. Councilmen are the people who make this suggestion. I didn't necessarily expect this suggestion to come from that point, but I rejoice even further, thinking that political agreements could be gained to make this investigation manifest. However, this is not the first time that a synoptic proposal is proposed at the General Assembly, where the importance of looking at pollution in groundwater and soils in the area is involved. Then, in 1992, a representative of the Allied Society, Sigríður, Jóhannesdóttir's daughter, made a pact proposal for the study of soil and groundwater under the so - called protective territory in the Southnes. But I'm glad this suggestion has come out. There are, of course, other factors that can lead to high incidence of cancer in Southnes. It is also important to consider social factors that could lead to an increase in the incidence of cancer. However, I believe that in view of what has long been known about the pollution of Centralnes left by the military, it is important to go to an examination of the concentrations of pollutants in both ground and ground. And, as I said, I don't think it should be merely going through reports from the Keflavour Airport Ehf Evolution Society. but based on all the known data. That's what I wish to say. The welfare committee is pleased to discuss this matter and hope that it will come into this room again, that we can agree to the Parliament's resolution and that this investigation will be carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to submit this synopsis proposal. I think it's important that we examine the factors involved. There are many interactive factors that could have this effect, and without having ventricular decisions or mentioning one thing above another, we know that much has been done on Southnes that can be carcinogenic. In this regard, it may not be the only thing to stand out as far as anything else. Rather, it is a universal view of what causes and why we see such high incidences in this area. I support this whole matter, and I think it's incredibly important for the Southnes that we get to the bottom of this matter and we see studies taking place, and we're glad we can build on some kind of evidence at that job. I look forward to dealing with this situation on a welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u67	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of professional democracy. That's right. paritaprevir The left movement ◯ Green offering, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, made the same suggestion during the last legislature. It's about the order of an Outfit and I want, by permission of the President, to read the proposal: ▪ The General concluded to hide a social and workforce minister to order a work force on the labour market and the public to offer suggestions on how to improve democracy at work. In the line of work, the representatives of the National Association of Iceland, BSRB, the League of Colleges, the Association of Professional Life, the National Association, the Ministry for Presidency, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Social and workforce minister ship the head of the task force. The Ministry puts the staff in a position and essential special service. The Outfit shall submit no later than December 1, 2022,How would you like to know if there were any suggestions? In other words, it is strongly recommended that all those involved in these matters come together and find out if and how best to conduct these matters, to promote professional democracy. But what is professional democracy? In Icelandic labour markets, workers have ensured their survival of a system by unions which through collective agreements negotiate the purchases and markets in certain professions or at specific working places with their employers or with their organisations. Remuneration, work hours, coffee and lunch breaks, holiday rights, medical rights, etc. While collective agreements guarantee general growth and order, they do not guarantee a decision-making process within the workplace, which certainly has a major impact on the lives of employees. This suggestion is intended to draw different people to the table to offer suggestions on how to improve democracy at work. Opponent views that are relevant, on the other hand, to the management right of the employer and to the employee self-control. It should then be noted that the proposals are not to be replaced or undermined by the Icelandic labour market model that has developed for over a century. It is important to ensure that the cohesive power and solidarity of the employee are held in high esteem as well as the labor movement's position. In many countries, labor unions are more common than in Iceland, and a growing proportion of employees in valuables have been seen, while the trend has been opposite in most Western lands. This position is important for us to stay here and expand. So these ideas are designed primarily to be an addition to the Icelandic workforce and to a team in its development. Increased democracy and transparency at work sites can be ensured by various means. These include company-based personnel in the Commission and monitoring directors, to legalise staff rights as well as the information rights of a particular enterprise, e.g. for financial and future plans, and for the staff to receive a certain ratio of profits or remuneration from an enterprise that can be used as an option. Both current legislation can be considered as well as different motivations, e.g. tax and other financial incentives to encourage companies to adopt democratic governance or management forms. It is desirable or different ways to consider and that there is experience regarding social, economic, and environmental factors. It is also important to examine how possible changes might affect the Icelandic labour market model. With the development of the fourth industrial revolution, increasing the democracy in the labour market is more important when artificial intelligence and self - efficiency take over the role of man in increasing numbers. It has a lot to do with working classes, taking steps to allow them to establish business decisions on the induction of new technologies, thus giving them the opportunity to enjoy the scientific supplement. This might be worth the effort to make use of the worktime, increase the salary, increase security, and improve the working environment, and otherwise vote. In addition, knowledge from staff can be considered useful in creating new technologies that could include the process. published by the European Commission. This is a gross review of ideas about how democracy could be improved at work, called professional democracy. I reiterate that this is not thinking that it will be somehow replaced by the labour market model, one of the basics of Icelandic society, but rather that it will support it. It may be extremely important for employees to come directly to company decisions, but at the same time, e.g. to make sure that the situation does not show that the staff are involved, despite having an inactive session anywhere, are responsible for any proposal or actions that may result in the loss of workers. So my review is only tore on possible means to ensure the aims of increasing employment democracy. If the proposal is accepted, the task force itself will wait to find the right way. A respectable president. These ideas are not really new. Professional democracy is known worldwide. I encourage interested people to study the report that covers only Western Europe into other parts of the world. In the northern countries, such as Sweden, employment is a long way off and is also well - known in Germany. In my opinion, we should look to our neighbors in the North countries on this matter. This matter has also been discussed for decades in this hall. In the spring of 1965, the first proposal for a hearing of professional democracy was brought to the 85th legislature council. It was Ragnar Arnalds, then skunk. paritaprevir The common alliance, which made that suggestion, has been suggested, and since then many members of the council have made a suggestion on these matters. I'd especially like to mention the highest. Marine and agricultural minister Sigis Svavarsdóttir, who along with all the current category of the left movement - green proposal for several legislators a few years ago for a commission to make suggestions on employment democracy. And as I was able at the beginning, the proposal for this discussion was made by the then-growing whale. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, along with all members of the left movement, has been offered in the last legislature. The motion then went to the point. The welfare committee received three reviews, all from the retail board of paymen. Thus, professional democracy has long been a conflict of the left - hand labour at the General Assembly. In addition to all of these matters, there have been other issues in the past half of the century that have aimed at increasing the role of workers in the decision making on the field of employment. All those cases were submitted to the appointed representatives of the left categories. Although many efforts have been made to develop and establish the rules for the implementation of employment democracy in Iceland, the results have so far been limited in this country. In our neighboring countries over the last half of the century, however, professional democracy has established a noble place in the shape of a job market and has found itself to be a normal part of the workforce. The Icelandic labour market must, therefore, be considered as highly primitive in this regard, and there is full reason to make improvements in that important field. However, during the period of the left government that has been placed here, steps have been taken this way. This happened by the presence of representatives of the workers in cultural governments, such as the National Theater and Kingdom Radio, and by the seating of high school officials and students. In this regard, consider the law of No. 23 From March 20, 2013, on the Kingdom News, the public curator, and the laws of other laws, such as high school, the National Archives of Iceland, and acting laws. It must also be kept in mind in this regard that partners created a potential for business influence on enterprises. Most of us are the ideal partners and the team members and the ideals behind them. It belonged, for example. We deal with consumers in urban areas, and businessmen like farmers in the rural area. By the collapse of the cohesion movement, the whole system was laid down, and especially the ideological democracy that was originally based on cohesion. President. I encourage everyone. Councilmen to read a different fine report provided by the proposal. At the very least, it is thorough and informative. I'm going to finish my case by reminding that the term professional democracy means ways to enhance the impact of employees in companies. That's what it's all about, and that's why we're all heading in my opinion, that the Icelandic labour market can develop in the same way that it has done in the countries around us in the past half century. It's a song. After my first discussion, I suggest that the proposal be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-12-09-8.u68	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of national growth initiatives in the premeditated first candidate of the motion. 9th. That's the north side. "The Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. Other representatives of this council's resolution are the one that stands, the Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristiandóttir, Hafdís Hafsteinsdóttir, Ingibjörg Isaksen, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birgir Þórarinsson, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. The motion is on. Ninety-six and have a code 96. The proposal was previously made at the 150th legislature, then 365th, and is now almost unchanged but suggested as follows: ▪ The General concludes to hide a marine eco-efficiency and agricultural minister to arrive at the end of 2022 on government, farms, land healing, employment, and the public, aimed at increasing the share of the public in carbon - healing activities and thus starting a national campaign for land healing. I'm going to kill on some of the reports here, but maybe first, I'll draw attention to the fact that talking about government cooperation is, of course, referring to various government institutions, as well as to rural areas and their institutions. The proposal suggests that marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers will be committed to the establishment of the area for government cooperation, land healing, farmers, employment, and the public, who aim to increase the share of the public in carbon - healing activities, thus making a national campaign for land healing. This price - sharing site will be set before the end of 2022. The aim of the proposal is to increase carbon binding, prevent soil erosion, and heal wasteland through increased involvement of the public in land healing. The model for the construction work of Farmers helped to heal the country, farmers' cooperation and land healing projects that have been operating since 1990 and have proved to be a real experience. With increasing environmental awareness and education to the public, more and more companies have offered customers to balance their trades with carbon. Job activities in the project may include offering a carbon balance of land - healing business. Thus, the public's involvement would be dual, one directly involved in land healing, under the guidance of land healing, on the other hand, by the balance of their business. The objective of this Parliamentary proposal is to agree with the Treaty, the climate Action Programme for 2018-2030 as well as the UN World Goals, No. 13: Climate - related activities. Other international agreements, which could be a factor in meeting them are: the Paris Treaty, the United Nations Convention on Action on desertification, which has been in force here in 1996, the International Convention on Biodiversity, validated at the General Assembly in 1994, and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which went into effect here in 1994. Soil is an important resource. It is the foundation of the world's greatest food supply, but soil destruction is one of mankind's greatest threats. The destruction of vegetation and soil has long been a major environmental problem in Iceland. Therefore, the movers suggest that national efforts to achieve land healing have given few countries the opportunity to reduce land use emissions and to promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil. As a result, I have studied the main points of the report, and in fact, the proposal is quite open so that a minister might have a little free hands on the process. In fact, instructions are primarily involved in setting up a cooperative site. When the proposal was moved to Council 150, the Environment and Transport Committee received six comments about it. These reviews were generally positive, but they pointed out a number of factors that would have to be considered on a job basis as suggested. There are positive things to be drawn there, and there are practical suggestions. The above considered successful implementation of this proposal can lead to a variety of projects for recovery of land quality as well as a variety of other crops using different land - healing methods and diverse types for land healing and carbon binding. There is no one way to land healing, and one method does not rule out another. Priceable objectives of land healing, as we know, can be a variety of factors, including The protection of soils, the healing of soil erosions and dusts, the healing of vegetationless and luxuriant land areas, the protection of vegetation, which contributes to the growth of vegetation in an effort to increase the country's resistance to destruction, such as by volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters, and the defenses against demolitions, which can damage land or manpower. Then, of course, there are a wide range of forestry and land healing goals, e.g. to improve outlet conditions and create pasture areas or productive agricultural countries where there are other goals. The main thing in common is to protect soil and to produce vegetation. We also have a variety of cooperation assignments, including those that include the following: is being restored to organic matter into the cycle of vegetation. A fine example of this is a development project that is now being started in a Swamp that uses organic waste from shelter for the healing of Holas; a task that is being taken from a shovel based on Lake Myce, using it for the restoration of a badly developed land in Holasandi. No doubt, there are many opportunities for other such projects. There is a lot of organic waste available on food production, agriculture, urban curfews, and should be able to think much more about how we can get them back into the cycle and use them to make up land or as fertilizer on land that needs food. The lack of biological material to bind seeds and roots is often inhibited by land healing, resulting in the loss of plant life during the first summer or other winters. In droughts such as those in the North and East last summer, it was so obvious where organic materials were needed to bind water for the summer and on the other hand, to protect from freezing temperatures during the winter. In the United States, more carbon can bind to soil than in other southern regions, where decay is faster, as well as the chemical composition of the soil especially binds organic matter. We have a lot of work to do to strengthen the vegetation of the land. When organic matter - containing soils - are good to remember, a lot of carbon is lost in the atmosphere, and by strengthening and increasing the growth of vegetation, more carbon can be added to vegetation and by stopping carbon from spreading into the atmosphere to weather. As I learned earlier, it is a challenge to make sure that by making food and processing, carbon does not fall directly into the atmosphere but remains in the cycle. Of course, we want the least of food to go to waste, to be absorbed, but what cannot be healed to the consumers return to the cycle and be bound in the soil. Another thing I wanted to come is that we often have a bit of a bit of a country that is hard to find or some obstacles to land healing. But this year, at least my attention has been focused on a land near the capital area. We left, for example. Many about the Rhine in the spring and some looking at the soda. Of course, there are large areas of mass peace, which, if properly done, can be put on very large amounts of carbon. Similarly, just in the vicinity of the capital area, we find ourselves in Mosfellstown and elsewhere, where we see that much growth has worked. But we see even more land that is broken down and organic matter is dying every day. Of course, in many areas there is a land accessible to the management of rural communities that farmers are not using for a business that could become highly efficient and used for that purpose. You can talk about land healing for a long time, but I think I'm gonna call it a day. I believe that the Environment and Transport Committee will address the issue now, call for reviews, and discuss that as it is so early in this council. Of course, I hope we can get it back here in the Senate hall for a second round. It's already wintertime. I suggest that the case be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee.
