ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, foreign and development co-work ministers and tourism, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u2	Mr. President. It has to be said, as it is, that a clear source of information will late be considered one of the government's cornerstones. It has been a year since the Korean epidemic began to develop, an epidemic that has greatly influenced the position of thousands of homes and businesses. Apparently, the calm has been heavy, and the summer will not be as bright as the expectations, especially for tourism. The restoration has suggested a number of suggestions to increase awareness for a longer time because this is a temporary situation, and it is important for the people to have clear answers, to look beyond the code. As best predicted by the traveling agency, they expect about 600,000,700,000 tourists during the year - according to best predictors. They were 2 million in 2019 C.E. This is based on the opening of Schngen's outer borders in the spring so that we can welcome tourists from Britain and the United States. There's a lot of uncertainty around here. According to the head of the travel agency, the client's force is paralyzed, and the following months can simply determine the results of its situation this year, on a number of enterprises in this important industry. In the event that vaccination will not be completed by the start of the summer, what message is the highest? A minister for tourism companies and businesses in restaurants and waves? What is the government's message for the next month, based on the position we are facing now and have been seen or seen at least Is there reason to fear for some time? What is the plan of the government when it comes to the management of these enterprises and the realistic expectations they can have for the next month?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u3	Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. That's right, uncertainty is still there. That is true not only of us in this country but also of all the countries around us. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned Britain and the United States, and this is under the so - called external circumstances, i.e. We are very dependent on what the situation is, and there we will be more missing than what rules they set against their citizens. Their decision on the border is of great importance to us here and their decisions on whether people need to be infected when they come back will influence their decision whether to arrive here or not and to travel in general. My messages for the tourism and the secondary professions within it are simply: We're on your side, that's what we've done. We've got our eyes on the ball. We're ready to listen, we're making decisions. We're supporting you because we have big faith in Icelandic future tourism and I don't doubt it for half a minute that the future of international tourism is very bright. We have a clear window of direction to the year 2030, which we worked along with the branch at the level of the rural government, which is a quality stamp on the policy frame that is actually unopposed by Covid. We have a clear vision that we are going to be leading in sustainable development. We're gonna keep looking, and that's for example. A project that I think will be a challenge when we return to receive people, that we are looking at quality in excess. We are watching, not a number of tourists, but what the tourist leaves behind and what valuable things are made of in this article and what the profits are inside. There are challenges ahead. We're looking forward to a financial restructuring of various companies, but the message is: We're on your side. I believe in them, and they do too. The times won't be painless or easy, but I have strong faith in the future of this article, and as soon as we can reduce uncertainty and increase awareness, we will. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now the situation is clear regarding the next step, whether it can be rushed, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u4	Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. They were good as far as they could go, but they were more likely to support the minister's ideas and visions for a long time, and in many ways I can share that view. But I'm asking about the next step. Today the government's actions to assist companies have been in the form of sectoral workouts, shutdowns, partial reforms, and other such. We're talking about the tourism business, that if foreign tourists don't come here, there'll be local tourists. In the budget of 2021, a restoration was made to extend and expand the trip. This travel process, which was part of a rescue operation, was successful but is not a reason to look to a shorter time and look for further ways to encourage tourism with international tourists instead of going into additional business activities that are closing, helping them close up, helping them to quit, helping them to quit, helping them to survive no business ventures? So I ask the highest. Minister: Is it not a reason to agree - her attitude has changed - the proposal to raise the gift in order to spend the money more on business so that tourism in Iceland will still enjoy the business that its own tourists can create? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u5	Mr. President. First, regarding the next step: Of course, the measures we have taken are fully effective. We already have the resources, and until springtime. Travel is still under control. We extend her time for people to be able to use her, because we were at the same time as she was in action with limited resources. We have extended time, and of course I'm open to such ideas, that's a small cost for a considerable amount of activity. If we see to it that we receive more tourists, and if Icelanders are going to travel here rather than go outside, the cost of the government is low to encourage further travel. We saw that during the summer, it was very important. But for the big movie in Icelandic tourism, the effects are very small in total because our local markets are just so flagrant. I don't know which country exists that has as little domestic market as it does on tourism and therefore is as dependent on foreign tourists as it is in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u6	A respectable president. What will the Icelandic government do about the introduction to the so - called 5G telecommunication technology, possibly driven by the Chinese communications giant Huawei? Most nations we compare with are connected to natural national security through infrastructure, such as communication. What is the focus of the government on this matter? And how do foreign ministers respond in this matter? 5G technology is going in full here, and we are in exactly the same place as any of the nations we compare with, whether in the North, in other European countries or in other Western countries, i.e. We're looking after the safety of our subjects. There is no question about the fact that communication is also a security issue. That is absolutely the case, and we have a responsibility to watch out for the security of our people, our subjects. I have felt that when it comes to Internet security, we have felt a little blue - eyed. If we look at the countries we always compare with, it is clear that many countries have banned Chinese 5G technology. These include the United States, Australia, Japan, Taiwan, New Zealand, and Britain. These countries have imposed significant restrictions on 5G technology of the Huawei. Norway, Denmark, Germany, France, and the United States seem to be on high alert. Should the 5G technology from Huawei, Iceland or not? When is it expected that the Icelandic government will decide on these subjects, and when can we expect a bill that will ensure that the security of communications will be assured of this? Will we follow the nations in order to ensure that the Huawei technology, 5G, will not be used unless it is 100% safe and ensure that they cannot use it for a different purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u7	A respectable president. I want to start by taking this opportunity and thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. It shows me that this discussion is developing in the right direction. I have used the same wording as the other wording. A senator, that we are a bit blue-eyed, indeed from this chair here a while ago. I've put it into practice all over the city, both in the council, in the government, in the National Security Council, that we take the Internet security case firmly and look to the countries as strong as possible. A senator, including a member of the U.S. Pointed to. For example, the list could have been longer, we could have mentioned our friends Sweden, but in fact, all the countries we compare ourselves to approach this matter in the same way, i.e. to view it as a national security issue that it truly is. Happily, much has been done and so have been done. is at the council a bill from the highest. The secretary of transportation and the local government, which has these issues in place, although this is certainly related to other problems. We are working together in a special task force at the highest level. Minister for the secure construction of the 5G system at the end of July 2020. In it is represented by the Department of Transport and Civil Affairs, Department of Justice, the Ministry of Presidency, and the Ministry of State. Also, I have initiated a group of missions on fiber optics, the exports of fiber optic cables, and related issues, including with regard to national security and national commitments to Iceland. There's a State Department agent in the D.A. D.S. Department for the security of the 5G system, so we're doing it the same way as the neighboring state. But I think it's important, and that's why I celebrate again the question of what. The senator, that we discuss this and that everyone is aware that it is also national security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of foreign affairs for the answers and cannot help but agree deeply with him. I sincerely hope that a bill on these matters will appear before spring because I think it is very necessary to Chinese people. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on a case with Hong Kong, what the Chinese are doing there. They're betraying all the contracts they made back then. They are beating down people's righteous protests. What is Iceland's position on this matter, and how will we deal with it? Do we support the people who are fighting for their rights and who are struggling for the Chinese to fulfill the promises they made to the British in their day? How does a minister visualize this? Are the Chinese taking control of Hong Kong and breaking all the contracts they made with the British at the time they went out?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u9	Thanks again. Senator. That may not have been clear enough, but it's a bill for the council, including the Council. This national security factor is being taken into consideration when it comes to communication, as well as for 5G, the council is dealing with that issue. Whatever it is. A senator referred to Hong Kong, which is very clear, and has made it clear to us, in every place where it can be expressed, that we certainly support human rights in Hong Kong. There was a time when treaties took place. A senator pointed out that it was then spoken of a land, two systems ◯ We know this from protests that there people worry that they are breaking their rights. We have made a very clear message that there is something we do not tolerate at all, either there or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to direct an inquiry to the highest level. A secretary of finance who would be aware of the largest government party. In the news of Stopr 2 last Monday, a disease - control doctor was quoted as discussing the acquisition of vaccines, a talk we know well since the last days and weeks, where many have found the information industry to be full, by permission of the president: The European Medicines Agency has made a deal with the European Medicines Agency. According to them, Iceland is obliged to buy vaccines according to its contract. It is also obliged not to buy vaccines from their contracts. Buying a vaccine from these contracts is not working. In other words, it is quoted directly after a pathologist. Because the combination of vaccines appears to have been involved, including with news of the highest. The prime minister has increased his approach to building a vaccine in December, apparently some of the government's cooperation projects. Aside from the information industry and the apparent mess around the elements of the vaccine, I have to ask the highest level of question by a psychiatrist. Secretary of finance, in the first place aware of the largest administration party, whether this approach, i.e. ... thatthe rights of Iceland to a contract outside the European Union have been approved by the government. Second, there are plans for the government to fix this position and free us from these limitations, and how? And when can we expect news of the decisions necessary for Iceland to be able to use its sovereignty in this, country, and nation for good?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u11	A respectable president. I think it's necessary when we talk about building vaccines for Iceland to put themselves in the steps we were in at the time when that discussion began. So we're talking about the first part of the last year or about the middle of the last year, where there was extreme uncertainty about when a vaccine would exist, who would be able to produce, and if we could have any expectations that it would be the biggest solution for us. There, many experts explained, but this has proved to be an enormous success. At the time we decided to benefit from cooperation with other European countries, it was evident that the manufacturers were, of course, seeking safety in selling the materials, which were required at the time to invent and manufacture. I believe it must have accelerated research, evolution, and eventually the production of vaccines to have had such agreements. In fact, we are faced with the question of whether it would just have been responsible by the Icelandic government not to agree with the agreement that this would be a small deal for all alone, and if they were to try to find happiness for each member of the European Union in a conversation, they would not be able to benefit from the total European Union agreement with the same people. That would have been a very bold decision. She would have, for example. could lead to our having made a deal with one of those who had since not been the first person on the market. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important that we consider this in that context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer. Of course, it has been described in a very detailed report that the European Union's arrangement and way of dealing with vaccines has slowed the structure of the manufacturer. What matters to me in these matters is that now we see news of it abroad from the development of Germany, the carrier of the European community, appears to be breaking out of this, and Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, has simply said that Germany is taking action. Looks the best. A minister so that we Icelanders are bound by this agreement, so that way is unattainable? Was the government aware that this limitation would be set in terms of Icelandic interests when the government decided to submit to the European Union's common chariot?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u13	A respectable president. So I'll answer that question about the government then it was announced in the government that these contracts were under way. I don't remember since I'm standing here that at the outset they've discussed exactly all the conditions, but they've been since, at least, Over the years, there have been refinements and discussions in the government, yes. I have also understood that the government and us Icelanders are not under these contracts to consult other manufacturers who might want to offer vaccines but are not part of the companies in a European Union agreement. I've received direct and indirect information that many people are trying to get us Icelanders into contact with such parties, and that's to be considered. Then, of course, we still have that conversation alive about the possibility of some kind of study in Iceland. We'll see what's going to come of it. So I think it's way too early to come to the conclusion that it was a mistake to join the European Union, even though I'm not here to measure some quality score on the European Union performance according to the commitment of the relationship to us on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u14	Mr. President. One thing we look at as a solution to today's subjects is, of course, a new creation. As economist Mazzucato Mazutacato has shown, it is important that the State take an active part in the innovation and support of the State. About five years ago, I attended a large international mall conference in Strasbourg City and could be said to have opened my eyes to the amazing tools that cooperation and clustering can be. In the United States, we have fine examples of malls that have been successful, such as the Icelandic tourist cluster, the Icelandic marine cluster, and the Ensorvement, to name just a few. So I rejoiced with the initiative. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thors Þórsson, when along with others, including the one listed here, proposed a synonym to hide a minister to shape a cluster policy for Iceland. At present, I would sit and sit together with a few whales. Last week, members of the Professional Committee work meeting were discussing the cluster policy. It is safe to say that the ideologies involved are exciting and various opportunities involved in following this policy closely, since clustering in its nature is a means of promoting innovation in both general and functional enterprises, which are equally important. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: When will the cluster policy be ready? How is it possible to increase the international research and cluster activities of companies in innovation and standard branches? Finally, and this is likely the most important question of the day: Has a minister provided funding to follow its policies and tasks as needed to fulfill this vital project?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry agrees with it and its reference that the State has a clear role in the construction of innovation and to ensure that every community can produce as much as possible. This role is important, and it is also very difficult. It's important to watch the big picture that we're here to create with a system that I think strengthens the innovation environment very much, whether it's a recycling system for research and development costs, technology funds, other support and education systems as well as all of that. However, there is also a need to consider that somehow we all look to the Kingdom for further help. I think we need to be very alert that when the government does it, it will do more harm than it's good. That's what we're talking about in general. With the mall work, it's working very well, and I'm really happy with the way it's developing. I think it's ambitious, and those at that job are clearly very capable in their area and in all the things that are happening. I can't wait to get my policy in my hands and introduce it. This approach goes on with the importance of this cooperation, such as the driving force. A senator came in. There may be some need for the State to support it. But my opinion is, not to top of a list, but to the bottom of a list that the state brings special funds to support such activities. The powerful things we have today are very small with direct financial support from the state. The subject field is the way it is, and it's my job to set priorities, and I'm totally ready to do so. [[The president calls.]] But what the money is and in what way it is not available until policy is complete.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and happy that policy will be coming soon, but I have to take the opportunity and simply challenge the top. Minister to ensure the funds needed to implement policy properly. This, however, is an opportunity for the future, and it must be ensured that policy projects will be followed. Not only do they need funding but they also need a clear frame. This needs to be. I just want to put my song in the cross and ask the highest. Minister on situation because of the professional situation in the country. Of course, innovation is an important part of building up for the future, but it is also important to support traditional commercial life, some of which come from the banks. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister here in the second answer: What work is being done in the Ministry to support the job life in order to maintain seawater during the most difficult months? Is there a plan in progress, or has there been some stage analysis of the situation, and how does it look? You see, Mr. President, it's not enough to listen. It takes action too.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this second question. Class policy to arrive in February, I forgot to mention it in my first reply, and the attitude of capital is taken when it is available and there is no price on it yet, that conversation is in fact left. I agree with what. A senator that it is just this cooperation that is so important and simply an attitude, an attitude of cooperation and faith in what it can provide when the public and the private market come together with the university community, etc. Of course, I am very worried about the high unemployment rate. The greatest challenge we are facing is to correct it. All the resources we've been working on. Since we have a clear policy at virtually every subject site, I view it as a decision that we have made about where we are heading. And then we're just getting into a general approach to whatever is needed to increase the amount of oxygen needed to work. This includes both: possible tax reductions rather than tax increases. It's a business of heart, of course, of remuneration. [[The president calls.]] We know that a significant increase in pay is directly affecting the number of employees. Then we're in this bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] But we have made a decision about that policy in general, according to major litigation groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u18	President. The rent market's inheating. Since 2011, the price for rent has doubled, but at the same time the index price of consumers has increased by a third. Double rent prices, but a third increase in consumer prices. 23 square feet of a West Side studio apartment is at 110,000 bucks, 80 square feet apartment in Hafnarfjörður at 200,000 p.m., a 100 square feet apartment in the V's at 300,000 k. For a single parent with a child, a consumer calculator in 2019 C.E., at the Social Ministry Web site, estimated $200,000. Total expenses without expenses. For example, if we are mild - tempered and find an apartment for rent at 200,000 k, according to the above - with a fever and electricity, we are talking about 400,000 bucks. at total cost. That takes about 550,000 bucks. In the entire pay, and not a dollar left, let alone a dollar to store for deposit in an apartment. Who can afford this? According to the story of income, we need to go up to the sixth income for a woman and only a fourth income for a male, and that for a child's reform and all. So there are 50 percent of people in this position who can't afford to live by consumption criteria and rent rent. In view of that situation, I'd like to ask the minister: "How does this case work out? Is this not a vivid example of the fact that the government's economic policies over the past decade have not been effective, economic policies that have left people outside? Before the Secretary of finance makes a predictable move on the increase of the provision and the reduction of taxes, I reimburse this case. This is the reality that will appear to us in spite of all governments'actions in the last decade. It doesn't mean much to build a roof on a house that doesn't have a foundation, top level. Minister. It is only an illusion to hide the fact that the bottom is south of the city. Then the question must be, What next, instead of a policy that leaves half that behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u19	A respectable president. Yes, this is an important matter. A senator puts it on schedule, the housing market in Iceland. He, like other markets that are efficient, acquiesces of supply and demand, and what has been of particular concern is an offer of renthouses in recent years. We have been very busy responding to that situation. We have, for example. made changes in tax laws to encourage the owners of a home to rent it out. We did this by reducing the income of rent income money by half at the time. We have also taken special provisions, such as rent payments for those who have high rents. But when we handled it through the council, there were indications even for us. that if a person does nothing more than increase the potential for paying rent and making arrangements for the owner of the house to have a tax charge, you may be trying to increase the rent price, because in the end, there will be an offer. Of course, local communities have an enormously rich obligation to ensure that by building new housing, new housing needs are being met at one time or another. This was a big part of a conversation we had with the biographer agreement. I think if we look at the disposition income, it'll cover, like, what. A senator came in, and we've had a lot of success. However, there is a market that is a bit difficult to deal with, and in the end, rent prices will always be some percentage of the construction costs. Do not overlook that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u20	President. It's all right to the highest. A minister's gonna point it out. We're looking at the responsibilities of our rural society at the same time as we're going into a Covid epidemic where rural society actually comes to converge investments to survive. We've been dealing with this problem since the arrival of tourists to the country and the airbnbnb took over so well. We know exactly how the 2017 elections were, then there was a lot of talk about this project problem. Now four years later, we're still in the same situation, nothing much better if something is, if not worse. It's got to be a challenge for us in the near future that we have to do something different, let alone, now that situation that Covid is creating with rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u21	A respectable president. In fact, I think that since tourists stopped coming to Iceland, there was a big change in housing markets. We saw in the supply of my apartment. A few days ago, I read interviews with traders who have been very busy fixing up these Airbnb apartments, such as the hot ones, that went either to rent or to sell. It is certain that there has been a great change. But I think it's important when we're talking about the lease, looking to see that more than half of the tenants in a tenure would like to make their home. That is why it is of great importance to me that we were seeking ways to lower the threshold for the first married couple. It has been successful in recent years, and, of course, much of that has been involved in the expansion of the Federal Bank. But again; the law of the market notices something, and as growth increases, market tensions grow. If the forward side is down, it'll go up very fast. That's what we've seen. There's a certain concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u22	Mr. President. I wished for this special discussion today to have the opportunity to ask the highest. Prime Minister a few questions on the state of the Constitution. As noted, some work has taken place under the highest leadership. Prime Minister in this ideal period of appointment to the presidents of all political parties at the General Assembly. From a press conference, it is expected that some of the results of this work will be discussed in the coming council. For this reason, before discussing material matters, I wanted to discuss some specific suggestions that are likely to occur when the highest point is due. The prime minister takes them to the council, that we take a brief discussion here on the situation of these cases, including those: based on the suggestions given above. First of all, a prime minister plans for the council, what is in the package, and what is not, according to what has been discussed during the election season. Secondly, I wanted to enter the highest. The prime minister, by the way a class of individuals had appeared in the team of cooperaters who have worked on these issues, including based on what our expectations may be, we can have a solid sense of solidarity in this regard. And then there is a third simple question about when the bills can be expected to be treated here at the council and perhaps thereafter. The prime minister envisions a continuation of matters. I would like to, before further reviewing that I myself have participated in discussions of the Constitution many times and frequently, both during this term period and before, and have been convinced that the position of the prime minister to have been premeditated on the matter has been reasonable in that it has been aimed at taking into account specific aspects of the Constitution and preparing suggestions for them. I have felt that it was a very wise method of working with that case but that I intend to change everything, eat the elephant in one piece of mouth, as at times has been proposed at a council and elsewhere. I have felt that the work force was in that way wise and correct. Now, however, I don't know what the rest will be like at the council, whether it can be completed on the basis of the highest. The prime minister makes a suggestion. I think that, however, is a reason to review it or to remind you that we, of course, need to be more cautious than with other legal adjustments. This is the basic law of the country, which all other legislation is based on, and experimentation and fairy taleism in that subject, of course, is not of good quality. Therefore, there are some key factors to keeping in mind when preparing and dispensing such changes. There is a need for action. First, what needs to be adjusted, how best to change it, and what the consequences will be. Second, it is reasonable to arrange a task so that certain factors can be kept focused on rather than on being overcrowded. Of course, it is important that, as far as there is widespread solidarity, a constitution is not being changed every time new things take control of a council or a new government takes over or how winds blow. They need to evaluate what is in the constitution and what is not and how it is best presented in a clear way. Then, of course, it is crucial that the constitution is changed in the way the administration order itself assumes. However, there is no need to remind you that this is a key to Western democracies.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for this special discussion, which the nature of the case will only revolve around the big lines because of a little time for the discussion. Hv. A senator here specifically mentioned work in front of the season. It is known that early in this terms period, it was suggested that under my leadership a regular meeting of prefects and representatives of the classes in the General Assembly to deal with specific clauses in general, a project to attack the General Review of the Constitution, which would be carried out in steps and in two terms. I think this work was going very well, especially in the front of a baby crown. Is it evident that in December 2018, the presidents had found 18 cases of these matters, all 25 of which were held on Monday at a telecommunications meeting. There was a certain point under which it could be said that right from the beginning, and, in fact, all fully aware who are observing political discussions, that there would be a complex agreement on the individual requirements of the Constitution. It doesn't change that I believe that this work has been done faithfully by all those who came to her. At least personally, I believe that my understanding of the affairs of the Constitution and political discussions about its different regulations has deepened by listening to the viewpoints of those who attended this meeting. I've thought that was an important point of view. I hope the bill I've been preaching will be distributed at the Council later today, but it's still final. Because of what? The senator mentioned the importance of the problem of action, so I can assure him that it has truly been a good tool, and experts are working very well with the suggestions we've been working on during the election season. This bill will include several regulations; national resource regulations, environmental protection and protection regulations, Icelandic language and sign language, as well as review of II. section of the Constitution, of the President and of the Commission. Part of the work allocation was that the methods of public society would be new. Enforced to cooperate with the Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland and scholars, both provinces and abroad, on a democratic constitution. A poll was conducted, and a reasoning poll based on that poll was held during the autumn months of 2019. I think a part of this discussion, and its conclusions, they're getting into the section that's about president and executives, including... In terms of certain innovations in the setting of a number of terms for presidents, it is possible to ensure that the president has a greater degree of vote, but changes in President's authority are not made, and there is not a great willingness to do so if both polls and reasoning surveys are determined. I can't get deep in material discussions, such as why. A senator mentioned here. But I have considered it very important that we have a material discussion about the change in constitution. There is evidence that not all the subjects we have discussed in these meetings are in the original schedules I suggested, to form a form of authority, they do not return to this bill. It was my opinion that further discussion would be needed. I was hoping that far off we would discuss the terms of the Constitution, which also led to the Venetian Commission, which was given consideration at the fall months 2020, making a significant comment on what was sent to their attention. And what is more confusing with the situation is that these comments are more likely to conflict with the conclusions of reasoning that I referred to earlier. So I believe that it needs further discussion before it's presented. Although there is no time for this materially, the Venetian Commission highlights little or no barriers in the National Convention, the results of the survey suggested that people feel that it is important to have certain restrictions on national pay. So I think we need further discussion. I believe our mission in this room is to find the best possible changes to the constitution. I don't think this project is about each one having the perfect thing he thinks is perfect, so I don't think we'd make any changes. But I believe that having these matters taken up for material discussions during the council will reveal different viewpoints that I feel have been successful among us officers with closed doors will cause us to blunder. [[The president calls.]] It is my conviction that this way is the only way forward to make long-term changes in the republicary constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u24	Mr. President. That was a good idea. paritaprevir An annual Birgir Ármannsson to discuss the work that has been done because of possible changes in the constitution. It's like the highest. As noted by the prime minister, this was a number of meetings, 25 meetings, and the nature of the matter has been very much discussed there, but often the same matters were discussed in the same way. In my opinion, it was relatively soon discovered that it would be difficult to achieve a solidarity among officers by at least Some of the proposals for the Constitution change. My main concern is the sovereignty of the so - called People, which is not actually suggested to change for now. But you're afraid of what goes with it, especially if you're putting your lines back on how you're going to be redirected. I don't think it's easy to say that the Constitution changes are presented as members of Congress in a conflict, as I think it would be safe to say after this recent session. The danger is that the matter will develop in a way that at the next assembly or in the second, with a different government, it will follow the same pattern of communication that will become like any other political issue at the council. That would be a very undesirable development, in my opinion. The government would even change its constitution over and over in order to achieve some political objective in view of the last change. So I am concerned about the example that might develop by this method.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u25	Mr. President. In view of a verbal saying, it would be quite perfunctory if someone cleaned up and calculated the time it would take. A senator eating one elephant, so careful now. I agree with what. A senator for material discussions must wait for a better time, but I'm going to declare that the Council could not fulfill its promise to the people of a complete constitution. The Constitution is a social treaty, the highest law in the country and the foundation of the European Government. It contains human rights and responsibilities, both government and city. How important it is, then, that the Constitution belong to all the people of the land, reflect their common values, and enjoy general trust. A faith - strengthening process in the shape of the new constitution began after a collapse with a national meeting and the vote of a board of directors. The Council gave the General Assembly a panorama bill won by the Board of Directors and Commission and Commission and submitted a full committee bill in 2013. Despite the fact that two-thirds of the voters in the national therefore wanted to put this bill as a basis for a new constitution, it could not be settled, including As a result of the demarcation of the independence party and the forwarding party. It is proper to continue this process and implement the careful and democratic final phase of the constitution beginning in 2009. Your objective? A complete constitution that would then be followed by a national bill. In any case, at least Says it's an experiment of the highest level. The prime minister to gain wide peace over these matters at a closed meeting of prefects has failed. We'll work on the case objectively, support good proposals and adjustments, but we're going to be fully in violation of such policies as the resource policy that would be established and sanctified in the Constitution of unsurpassed distribution warrants, which prevents the possession of the resource and the people of the land from enjoying the natural interest of their property by legitimate remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u26	A respectable president. In this regard, rather than the material content of the arrangements to be made for the Generals, the Constitution, and the work ahead of us. I appreciate this discussion. I consider the procedure that has been performed during this terms reasonable, since the revision of the Constitution is made incorporated and set up in cooperation and the conversation of the presidents of the political parties. Despite the lack of solidarity in that group, the conversation is extremely important to my opinion and likely to bring more peace than, for example, to the extent possible. already this case has been handled by the members of the political organisations, but not necessarily by direct members of the council. Then you can wonder if we will ever complete a change in the constitution once and for all. Even if things are desirable in such a way that any change is intended for a long period of time, it must be important for a nation to pass its constitution every day and every year. The Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, chairman of the Agency's Action Party, has publicly expressed the opinion that he considers the bills to be improved and that it is reasonable to submit them to the General Assembly for further discussion. I agree with the opinion that it is important to get the results of the officers'work to the General. This work will come to the management and monitoring committee for discussion. I expect much of the coverage that lies ahead of me for unique regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u27	A respectable president. It's like the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier does not have time for very deep material discussions, but we can discuss the process. I'd like to come to the conclusion that I believe the process that was now has failed completely. It is a very similar process that was taken to the most critical period that also failed. I wondered, " When will a world of Congress learn from experience and recognize for any reason that the Council simply cannot handle the project? ' Why would that be? I believe that this is because the Allied Council operates politicians and the government is made up of a greater part of the council, and this government also has political interests, e.g. not setting limits on how long ministers can sit, there is a notable lack of the suggestions made. No wonder. This is the problem in trying to do this by rounding up officers or members of the council at a closed meeting in an effort to find out. The method doesn't work, Mr. Honorable President. If we're back on the same tour for the next term, I'm going to support the presence of the Pirates, but I don't have any hope that the results will be any better than right now. There's a great deal of debate about the need for reconciliation to change the constitution, but, a respectable president, it's not cool with the current constitution. It's just that there's a rather big disagreement about her. It is the task that we could completely solve here, anyway, if we had a chance to have a career that would take into account the will of the people and others outside the walls of this house to take part in this work rather than try to solve it as politicians, in order to frame them with the same politicians. We must respect that the Constitution is the national constitution, not the General Constitution, and not the Constitution of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u28	Mr. President. Our constitution isn't covered in stone. From the Constitution of 1944 to 1999, changes were made every four to sixteen years, varyingly but all important. Never has there been so long a change in time as it has never been so much in society. Of course, much effort is needed, but for many of the changes called for, there is widespread reconciliation, e.g. the role and authority of the president and the duty of the council. The same can be said of a clear and definitive resource directive that ensures the timing of consumption and fair payment for the use of the nation's resources. There is peace among the people, although not within the government of Iceland. Much of the nation has expressed its firm view that change is needed, that we need a resource directive, and that the nature of the country needs to be better than it is, and especially that the magnitude of the votes of all the peoples is equal. It is a cry from the unanswerable nation. And its latest change to the highest. The prime minister intends that the bill for the changes in the constitution provided, without the involvement of other government officials, establishes this further. So, what do farmers do? We here at the council are advocates of the nation. That is why I believe that it would be better if we accepted the new constitution as it already exists. Thus the nation's interests, the interests of those for whom the Constitution is to work, are better cared for than the proposals of the ríkisstjórn of Katrín Jacob's daughter because the government has shown that it does not cause this assignment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u29	A respectable president. We can constantly argue over the constitution, and we will likely do so. We have a butt-made constitution, and unfortunately, we have a constitution that doesn't work for everyone. If it worked for everyone, we would not be in the position of society today. We wouldn't have people who are starving, we wouldn't have children who don't get the service they're supposed to get. Nor would we have elections, so that one vote at one place value as two votes elsewhere. We have an unjust constitution that has been torn apart, so it's a long - term debate. We can't even include the Constitution that the nation's resources will be met with a total price. We put it in, so the Constitution is likely to protect those who have access to resources such as, for example, them. The fishing grounds, they make money. At the same time, we have people waiting in line for food. This tells us that we have a badly damaged constitution. But politicians, members of Congress, they don't agree on this. What, then, is the solution? We've got to figure something out. If we're going to call ourselves democracies, we'll have at least one. to have the ambition that we have a constitution that protects people who make sure that nobody has to starve, that nobody has a rowed after a meal, that children don't have to be on a waiting list for a waiting list to get into service. That's gotta be a minimum catch. If we cannot do this, how on earth will we address all the other aspects of the constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u30	A respectable president. You might say that the Constitution was in place, but then we might be drawing a feather over the fact that this position has been available for a decade. Changes to the constitution have not been detected in this hall since the start of the constitution process and that is very unfortunate. Here we call for further discussion. It is likely to reflect the point of the problem, the point of why we always find ourselves in this position. Here, six months before the end of the council, we are getting some parallel from the political council meetings, and this is to be the basis for the discussion. This hall is the setting for the discussion that will take place on the Constitution, but because of the change in constitution, it is always done when a body of elders has a second thought, when cases arise at the end of the term, and there are no changes. Therefore, I am very sorry that of the topics that were to be taken up in this session, the Constitution has been decided to set aside a change in the terms of how the constitution was changed. Not only is the suggestion that we would be offered once a year to consider the changes that must take place, since we do not need a church breach to change, but because it would be a million democratic times that the nation would come to a change in national pay. [[The president calls.]] It should have been first on the list of changes that came to the council when it was evident that a group of officers did not meet together. [[The president calls.]] And how sad that is! [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u31	Mr. President. Since we are in the discussion, a few things have happened that I just wanted to do. First, it is in a certain way close by. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that if you want to use any other means of changing the constitution than the constitution itself, you have to change the rules before going into the rest. This should be self-recognised and should be obvious. However, the discussion of these topics has often gone astray when it has been felt that it was right and obliged to change the constitution in some way other than the order of the administration. Another point that caught my attention was a proclamation. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's son, Friðriksson, said that she wanted to accept suggestions from a board of directors and accept them all, not just the points she has shown a special interest in, but all the changes she made in the proposals of a management body. This is a new development, as far as I know, and is a very interesting approach, especially when considering that the factors highlighted by Awake! have been two or three, but in the proposals of a management body, all 80 of the current constitutions and 35 additional suggestions are being proposed and many of them include significant changes. Of course, the restoration has the right to pursue its course in that way, but there is some news. The third thing I would like to mention in this place during the discussion is that it is interesting to hear the responses of Groups and Pirata, but it must be borne in mind that in particular these groups have been reluctant to agree on something else until now but that proposals of counsel are taken and made whole. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So it's a little new. [[The point is, that's not quite true.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u32	President. It's nice to share in these recruitment innovations, to keep a special discussion on the subject of a bills just before being distributed. This is best because the Constitution is a big, important case. I find it very exciting that we finally came to a place where we could discuss materially what changes we want to make in the constitution. Sadly, in the past decade or so, the discussion of the Constitution has been way too tight in all kinds of frauds, and people have not been able to discuss materially what we want to see in the constitution. Therefore, I am very happy that political leaders have taken time and made the effort to find out if any changes in the constitution can be made. After listening to the discussion here, I can't help but see that there's a little bright that we'll be able to get together for something. It says here that people do not mind eating the elephant in one bite. No, it is making some outstanding changes in regulations, and it has just been said that there are some terms of reconciliation on the prime minister's bill. I can't see anything else, Mr. President, but that if we really mean that we want to be included in the Constitution of resource regulations, environmental regulations and other measures that we think are necessary to sharpen, we can be physically involved in that discussion. We can have differing views about wording, that it should be this way or queer, or even settle down about what is being presented. But the important thing is that we apply what we say ourselves. If we are going to do something by doing so, let us work at making these important changes for a material discussion and hopefully agree to agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u33	Mr. President. In my first speech, I mentioned that I thought it was an unfortunate arrangement for the change in constitution that the proposals were presented as one of the members of Congress in a political dispute. When it comes to legalization, it is normal for humans to succeed, and government usually moves them through, even if that is a significant opposition. But changes in constitution are not to be made because it is the role of uniting, and therefore the Constitutions change slowly and are endeavored to do so in solidarity. The work being done on the committee was useful in a number of ways but there - I can only speak for myself, of course -- you looked for peace and may have been motivated to give up something, have things a little different from what you would like to have, in order to make peace. But it is different when the matter is entered into the council, as it were any other political issue. I just hope this case doesn't become a victim of some kind of horse trade by the board. Now, we've just seen members of the left movement speaking with great conviction and force for the personalization of banks, and if they change the position of the government groups in other matters, I hope that it is not relevant to this matter, that changes in constitution are done not only by political controversies in the Senate but also by political horse trades. It can't happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u34	Mr. President. Here, good audiences have listened to the playin' at the telethon of the constitution, to the initiative of Ármannsson, the son of Aargian. paritaprevir The Independence Party. In the beginning of the discussion, he has reviewed his previous opposition to the Constitutional changes, and he has regularly shared in the recent delays, either included in the seminary at the Senate Hall or in his seat in countless Constitutions, which have provided no more than smiles. V.E.G. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, tells us that it is impossible to succeed by following in all the things that each one considers perfect. But, Mr. President, with the work that is behind it, the highest. That is exactly what the prime minister did. She has presented the matter to a group of presidents that she, and she alone, feels that changes will be discussed. Not only that but also a virtual body of counselors, such as the overseer of reasoning polling, Jón Ólafsson, noted in his review of the bill. The mistake, Mr. President, at the highest. The prime minister acts from the beginning and through the entire process is totally disregarding the people's will, as he appears in the national fee on October 20, 2012. The nation's will was clear. More part wanted to be used in the decision of the democratically appointed administration body, which was continued at the scene of democracy here at the General Assembly in the treatment of the case of a administrative and surveillance committee. Mr. President. The process that has now been controlled by the highest. The prime minister is still stillborn because of his lack of respect for democracy and national kindness.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u35	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for the special discussion that will be conducted on the state of the Constitution and agree with the chairman of the Agency, Sigurður the son of Ingi Jóhannsson, on this matter. As delegates, we are willing to give a positive witness and try to get things done. We are particularly welcome to the resources that are presented in this draft; we think it's pretty dense and very good. Now the matter is on its way to the council and important work ahead. I hope we can take some steps forward. If people think as the candidates do, through cooperation and socialism, all I expect is the right thing to do. Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u36	Mr. President. Much more of the nation wants, as it was chosen in 2012, the new constitution of the Council of Governments. That's what the people want. The majority of the administration and monitoring committees won this bill and moved it to the General Assembly, adopted its payment from the Committee to 2nd. At the council, and it was the majority will of the administration and monitoring committee. And more part of the General Assembly would want to finish that, but less part of the Council, the members of my body of voters, ended the matter here at the council. That's incorrigibly. The country claims to want a new constitution based on the Commission bill, that bill is submitted by a management and surveillance committee and turned into a political treatment with the Venice Committee and many experts, and, by many comments, the changes are taken from a management and monitoring committee into a chamber where a lower body of members, representing a smaller part of the voters, will be taken hostage. That's incorrigibly. It is the only irreversibly in this process since its beginning with the 2010 National Meeting, when a thousand people, selected at random and from the rest and these stakeholders in the community, agreed on a variety of changes that went well into the bill of administration. Then a administrative committee was organized, and this was taken together, becoming a administrative body that made up a bill all this way. The solution is that we will continue with that process because the bill exists now, as it was after the change from the management and monitoring committee, as it was brought here before it was stopped by a smaller part of the council, representatives of the smaller part of the voters. That bill we can go on with. It's ready, and it's been compiled into one bill that can be submitted. Piranus and the Conspiracy have produced it together repeatedly during this assembly. [[The president calls.]] If the people of the country want to continue with the process, democratic, then groups that are going to do it must be chosen and immediately after the next election will be the first thing, if the Pirats make it into a government, which will be submitted and cooperated by the people's will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u37	A respectable president. We have been sincere in this way, we have been open to approach, and we have been trying to help you continue to make wise and important changes in the Constitution. There are no issues that can be supported by a legal entity used by Jehovah's Witnesses in your country. They are not perfect, but it is not a threat to the national resources or to the interests of the people whether a president will be elected every four years or six years. However, this suggests that the prime minister would like to introduce himself to the name of a resource arrangement. It is crucial that the national rights of the nation are unconvinced to ensure that the contracts for resource use are timed. But you can't. Or change other laws. All our suggestions have been rejected. No, it's a proposal for the same condition, a respectable president. This is the wishes of the Independence Party, the Central Party, and the forwards, and the VG dances with them. This underscores why this government was established, to what degree the foxes were cut. In the final meters of this government, special interests will be restored. I'm sure they'll be off with all these lengths of paint that this is now okay. It's better than nothing, the first resource directive. But it's not like that. It's a shame. This is a textbook example of the sacrificing of the public interests of political parties and their sponsors. Government groups, along with the Central Party, give them a false sense of security. The prime minister will sell them to set up smoke sensors all over the house, but the batteries will not be included. She lets go of the batteries, and she deliberately let go. False security. It's not just an infinite sadness, it's extremely dangerous because of the nation's interests and the common interests. So it is clear what the next election will be all about. Then the nation will have its last chance to secure active national property or to promote the same situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u38	A respectable president. We'll discuss the constitution here. A constitution was set up that produced a new constitution. We could also have been discussing her properly in here at the council, putting her away. That would've been a great deal. Now the heads of the classes have been dealing with governmental records at 25 meetings, I think to the highest level. The minister said, and the conclusion is that the prime minister comes in alone with the bill. Why not lndependence? Why not advance? Would it not have been stronger, or would it not have been in there? I don't know. I don't understand this rush. I would say that a proposal for a new constitution from a administrative body was made to demand a large part of the nation, and of course, it would be normal for us to discuss the matter properly, allowing time for it. But for some reason, there is opposition. Most of this seems to be counter to any change in the constitution over the head. Then I ask, "What advantage is it to remain this same?" Who will get the most out of having the constitution unchanged? I think we know the answer to that. There are those who fight the most against all changes, and there I think the Independence Party is the leading party. I don't think they think the Constitution is so sacred, but somehow it works perfectly for them in this regard. Others are willing to discuss this matter in a larger context, and that is what we should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u39	Mr. President. I thank those who participated in this discussion. There's always some surprise in this, and there's always something new going on. Based on what has been reported in the media, I can't seem to be surprised at how the representatives of various groups have spoken here, and particularly the representatives of the Controversaries and Pirata, who have had negative approach to the Supreme Opportunity. In fact, the prime minister has toyed with that step - by - step work and has considered specific matters. Of course, it is a little new to be supported by the proposal of a administrative body. I understood that the whole package was under it, not just the specific regulations that are set out by the restoration to this point. The chairman of the restoration work did not explain whether this was the decision of the councilman or the rest of the party because of the lack of order. The chairman of the reverend spoke of only one provision for material discussion later. But it's okay. I just wanted to mention it at the end of this discussion, in response to some of the views presented here, that, of course, the General has been able to change the constitution very often on the basis of existing constitutions. The Council has made changes in the Constitution of the Republic period seven or eight times, and most of these changes have been made in harmony. The claims that the Council is unable to make any changes in the constitution fail. During the republical period, some 46 or 47 aspects of the constitution have been changed in these seven or eight phases. So there is no basis for claims of incompetentity or the inability of the Council to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u40	Mr. President. Thank you for the discussion. I'm going to allow me to take the volume out of my mouth, like political horse shops, show-to-be, play-and-dos, and let them lie. I'm just gonna let it slide because I don't think this case deserves this kind of discussion. This case is so much bigger than traditional popular romance, much bigger than the one standing here, and much bigger than all of us, and it's time we allowed ourselves to take a material position. Do we want the public rights that have been held in Icelandic from the Grey River and the book of John to be protected by government? I'll say yes to that. I want English language and Icelandic Sign Language to be governed by government protection and status. Is that what we want? Can we deal with this and answer that question? Can we discuss whether the principles of environmental rights belong in a constitution? I'll say yes to that. I say yes, it will address sustainable development and other issues of the environmental rights, which the current constitution has been silent for far too long. Do we want to discuss whether we will be able to accept the results of a public body that will not, according to the results of a reasoned survey, increase the authority of the president? However, this was one thing that could be read from the proposals of a government body, which was suggested to increase the authority of the president, including the president. in connection with the order of officials. In a matter of fact, it's interesting to know what the senators think about it. Do we want to discuss it and decide whether resources in Iceland should belong to the Icelandic nation and not be given permanently? Do we feel that it is important that we remain in the constitution, or are we going to turn this discussion into political scenes? That is absolutely our decision, our choice. I'm not going to go there. I'm just gonna let me discuss these material things. I believe the People, whatever our decision may be, will owe it to the people, regardless of the attitude that individual senators take to these material things, that they must be respected. [[The president calls.]] However, I am stressing that we are discussing material matters, not just the case that has been done for a long time, but that we owe it to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u41	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law of action against the money-covering and terrorist funding. The objective of the bill is to submit more specialized funds to the law, but by laws on the management of specialized funds, No. On June 4 of the past, 45/2020, a coordinated rule assignment was set up by the operator of specialized funds, which are all other funds at financial markets than stocks. By that law, operators of specialized funds were felled under the values of the money loads. At the same time that the management laws of specialized funds were adopted for the treatment of the Allied Economic and Business Committee for the Management Board to legalize the changes in the financial security laws including the was agreed that creditors and loan servers, by the Social Security Act, would also be killed under the values of money-scraps. The change that was approved was the same as the law that had been changed by the Management Act on Special Funds over a month earlier. However, in the case of the Allied Economic and Business Committee, the above-mentioned change in the value of the money industry was avoided by the operator of specialized funds. As a result, operators of specialized funds fell, not under the financial laws. As a result of the ongoing management of specialized financial funds, it is urgent that this situation be corrected as soon as possible. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill. With this bill, operators of specialized funds are reassigned under the law's standards, as was intended by the law. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u42	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill of a change in law of law, a law on the courts, a law on the execution and administration of the state in the province. The bill suggests changes in the management of a committee on police surveillance, the cooperation of police with national governments, partners and private members, the cooperation of police with foreign police authorities and international agencies. It is also suggested that the work of the police council be legalized, put down the Commission of the police, as well as minor changes in the right terms of the police officer, the county, and the local courts. About a year ago, a special police force was set up. There are all police directors, but the Council is a formal meeting point for a police officer whose objective is to improve consultation and ensure the ability of the police to share with each of the challenges they face. The task of a police council was the first team to make any changes within the police force and is suggested that the Council's operation be legalized. Our last spring team also launched an analysis of the current legal environment on police surveillance. There's a few things that came up that required a review. On December 17, 2019, the General also agreed to a hearing proposal to further the police work. In line with this in the bill, there are some changes to the role and treatment of the Committee, including by assigning the Committee to take sides with the complaints it deals with, as well as to make the work of the Committee more efficient and shorten the treatment period. Therefore, the Committee will be commissioned to establish a supportable position on the type of conduct or method of action that is complained and, if indicated, send the appropriate state of complaint for further treatment. This is further stated that when the committee is receiving a complaint on the matter of treatment, she should personally decide whether the incident would agree with the law and accept the procedure. Participating police activities, faultfindings, and/or criticism can also direct general recommendations to the officer of the local police for possible improvements, to form a change of procedure or practices. This is a major change in the role of the committee, and the change is made so that citizens will get their solution clearer and faster. Then the commission is committed to emissary the district attorney or, after the incident of the district attorney, a mission for the intended criminal conduct as soon as possible instead of discussing and sending it forward. Is it possible to improve the effectiveness of the Committee and shorten the duration of the treatment, but is equally important to ensure that the investigation can begin as soon as possible after suspected criminal behaviours arise. In such cases, therefore, the committee is not assigned to address matters specifically but to immediately direct them to the local prosecutor or district attorney. These are presented with a change to the current limit of 35 gr. b, with regard to the investigation of alleged criminal conduct of police officers. The bill suggests that, in certain cases, a local district attorney, or after an incident by the district attorney, a violation where an officer of the police is suspected of criminal conduct outside the field. This applies to serious fractures i.e. which includes three years of prison or more, or where there is a suspected fracture against XXII. or XXIII. the section of general penalties dealing with sexual abuse, murder, and physical injury. In the bill, you will find the new statement that the district attorney, or State Attorney after an incident, is required to report to the Commission all cases of investigation and their application. The committees can look into matters and their experiences and take a logical stand for them. Further changes in the law considered necessary following the routine review are also required. They are subject to, in fact, to cooperate with police with other governments, both in the country as well as with foreign police authorities. They're suggested as authorized to receive foreign police force and thus hide police authority from this country. Such legislation is essential to validating the Prüm meeting, but the contract was signed by the Icelandic government in 2009 and is about to take Iceland's involvement in promoting cross-border police activities, particularly in fighting terrorism and crime across borders. It is also suggested that the police officer's appropriate circumstances change slightly, but the bill suggests that individuals not be required to be 30 years old to perform the police officer's position. It is suggested that similar changes be made to the relevant terms of the district and the county. The number of other suitable conditions remains, and I believe they are sufficient to ensure properness. Job experience and education should be considered in such a command, and age should not be an off-limit. Finally, the bill is suggested to submit the parole board to the police. The original objective of the Commission was to ensure agreement in the post office after the Commission's office moved from the state police office to the police department itself. During the five and a half years that the committee has been working, she has made very few comments and must have felt that the committee served its purpose in ensuring the successful recruitment process during the first few years after the order was given to the police chief. It is very important to ensure that in the recruitment and commands of the police, as well as in other public places, there is good work to do. I believe that the goal will be better achieved by hiding the State Marshals, having agreed with the Police Council and with the Ministry of finance, giving consistent instructions to the police chief on police orders and other employment within the offices. I think that the objectives of the law are better achieved in this way because part of the assessment that must take place at the beginning of a recruitment relationship must also be performed regularly, e.g. when deciding whether to renew commands in case of an incident after the recruitment relationship which may no longer meet the relevant conditions. A respectable president. I have now explained the main points of the bill. With these words, I suggest that the case be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. These are interesting changes that occur on the police law and in various ways to improve. I'd like to answer that question, if you don't mind. Minister to name two things I can see. First, that it was not considered a reason to look into the extent to which this law affected Iceland's international commitments, I refer to a change in the law on police surveillance, in view of the fact that we have certain commitments to what constitutes an independent investigator. It's like the highest. A minister may know this because of the judgment story of the European Court of Human Rights, which has discussed much of the rights to life and the prohibition of torture and that a positive obligation to Member States means that it may provide adequate protection for these important rights in order to ensure that all police activities that affect the right to life or that the ban on torture is independent and significant. The district attorney conducts this surveillance authority when it comes to the investigation of possible violations of police work, and where the district attorney is also moving the district attorney to this council, I wondered if it has been considered specifically to ensure the best independence of the local district attorney from all other police agencies, if this was identified to some extent. I miss seeing this in my report when it comes to the international commitment of Iceland. Would this new arrangement meet the demands of the European Court of Human Rights on independence, independent and a significant investigation of police activity?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u44	A respectable president. These are fine questions about these changes. Of course, the committee is primarily independent and has authority to take a logical stand for the complaint she is receiving through these changes, and that is very important. Then it is the alleged punishment of conduct, that is, of nature. A senator comes in to treat and investigate another office, or a prosecutor. I think we're strengthening the arrival of the district attorney by suggesting that the investigation of the alleged offense begin immediately. We are not only quick but also strengthening the arrival of the district attorney. Of course, it is very important that it be independent, and after an investigation, it is with the district attorney whether it ends in charges or if the case is canceled, or after a court of justice has fallen, the case also goes to the Committee. I think this arrangement, by means of these changes, guarantees this independent, independent surveillance and at the same time a more difficult and accelerated trial that citizens have been calling for. The arrival of the district attorney to the council was one of the points that were specifically considered. It was considered important in the field of consultation that the local district attorney had come to the police council on the various factors, e.g. to ensure a better treatment for specific matters when discussing the development of the sexual abuse phase. Where can we do better? Where can we add the amount of people, etc.? I think it's been very effective this year, but, of course, it's always been tried, and I think it's being supported, independent and intensively monitored by the police in both areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u45	A respectable president. I miss a little analysis as to whether these conditions that the Court of Human Rights puts before credible and independent police supervision have been conducted, whether or not the conditions that are set have been met and certain. I think, for example. It's a little strange that the district attorney is investigating both the offense against police officers and the offense that police are supposed to have committed. It doesn't have to be abnormal in itself, but I think it's a little special to have these two projects together with the same office. Besides, when he's in charge with all the police officers in the country, the city has at least for good reason to ask ourselves, " Is this true independence? ' On the other hand, I have no doubts about independence and integrity to the district attorney, not that I must be understood, but that I am merely standards; there are standards that are guided by when it comes to evaluating an investigator's independence. That's why I'd like to see some diagnosis go forward with the criteria, but whatever. I was going to ask the highest. A minister about another matter that I asked her about earlier when these laws were first submitted. This was so that police authorities could be handed over to foreign police officers. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if she can explain to me the boundaries on this force. What exactly does police authority involve? What authority can the State Marshal leave to foreign police officers, and what limits will be placed on that authority? How will this be followed, and where will the civilian be able to provide what foreign police authority is being taken into the country each time?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u46	A respectable president. First of those criteria. There's a senator coming in on the police patrol, we're following them. GRECO has welcomed these changes to the committee. These rules include in the report of the European Commission's Human Rights Council to support a more effective investigation and to ensure that independence, ability, effectiveness and transparency are involved in these issues and that they follow up on any issues under police supervision and guidance. We are fulfilling that requirement, and these changes have a set of criteria. With the foreign police authority, the Marshal has to agree. It is the same power that cannot be more than the police in this country generally have or is limited, so it is clear. This is put in first place in order to validate the Prüm convention and because when the Icelandic law enforcement authorities are perhaps attending court request, it may be necessary to request assistance from the state and ask for police officers to be sent to this country. There are examples of such. But the main thing is that the administration of all the police activities that foreign police do take part will always be with the Icelandic police, so we're not opening up for something else. This is at most, as I said, the same power as the local police have or are limited, and we are referring to a unique or unique feature. The Marshal then decides who they are. For the same purpose, U.S. Marshals and other police directors, are allowed to temporarily send Icelandic police officers to foreign service. As they work abroad, they enjoy the same rights. So this should be very clear. But I don't quite know how it's going to be published by the Marshal, and there's something to look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u47	Mr. President. It is important that police law procedures be handled successfully and modified. Let's not forget it. Prime Ministers apologized for their injustices. There are some aspects of this matter that need to be thoroughly considered and missing. I'm just like that about what was just before, in answer to a foreign police force, as indicated in Article 4. There is a new paragraph in which foreign police officers who come to work here on land in accordance with Article 1. 1 1. I'm taking police authority. I'd like to draw attention to this, Mr. President, that this is a very broad source and far more extensive source than, for example. Similar regulations in the Norwegian police law. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to whether the law, as in the Danish law, is inappropriate, explains when, for example, should be used. The baiting of firearms and bats is allowed. Also, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is considered that an independent surveillance committee or group of workers are reviewing procedures and methodology and discuss with police employees under anonymous terms on how the work is actually done and whether it is compatible with foreign procedures. We're doing this in the Schengen case. Then a board of credits will come to the country. And as famous as that time, they'll give us a drop-off. And remember, as I said at the beginning, that the conclusion of the Guðmund and Geir fissum, as it developed for years, gives us every reason to observe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u48	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator as to the need for action. I think this is us taking careful steps that have been doing for over a year on changing police law. We begin with a legalized council to promote the Commission on surveillance as well as to fulfill various commitments to which we have to make our commitments. With regard to cooperation with foreign police authorities, Iceland's law - enforcement services have undergone significant changes and have developed rapidly in recent years. A study of the matter is increasingly extending across borders and even continents, so it is necessary for the police to cooperate, not only with the police authorities of other countries, but also with international law enforcement agencies. But it's clear to me that this is always under the government of the Icelandic police. This is an aid in a national project if necessary, as I have already noted, and there are always the same or more limited authority than the one used by the Icelandic police. Hv. Of course, this should be considered more closely by the General and Education Committee. Of course, there are clear rules for handling firearms and other weapons, which I understand. A senator is referring. But they are, for example. Presently published and more accessible. In order to validate the Prüm convention, which we signed in 2008, on the development of law enforcement cooperation, it is expected that there will be assistance between countries so that one state will receive a police force from another state in times of emergency or individual cases, for example, during court requests.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I'd like to draw attention to it, as I said before, that in 20. The Norwegian police law says that police law may, in exceptional cases, provide someone other than listed in the law. There is also a special provision in the 20th chapter. for foreign police officers, and it claims that, in exceptional cases, it is permitted to give them police authority. I think that there is good reason for the committee to review this carefully and to consider how these matters are being handled in neighboring countries. This is very important in the work that lies ahead. I wanted to ask the highest. A minister of the second challenge how she envisioned limitation and monitoring the application of power, i.e. that foreign police officers receive police authority and in what cases. Who's going to be watching this, and why isn't the Ministry itself involved? How to ensure that foreign policemen, e.g. From the United States, and to bear in mind that their mental attitude is different from the use of firearms and arrests, we know that very well, comply with the rules we've held? These persons have a completely different approach to the application of firearms when the individual is present, e.g. dangerous. So I think it's very important to have clear answers to this. I must say so, and I'll get in more afterwards, Mr. President, in speech, that I think there is a full need to put a whole new law. There's a lot of stuff missing in this bill that's found in the Norwegian police law. [[The president calls.]] In all cases, the inexplicably unbounded exposition of a police authority is not a successful step, so caution is necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u50	A respectable president. It's quite clear, and I'll agree with it as a matter of course. A senator says that this should be similar in nature here and elsewhere, worth the consideration of it, i.e. to validate this agreement made by many countries. Regarding the need for a complete and complete review of all the laws, of course, there are things to be fixed by the police law. This is where I think it's about to be dangerous and important step-by-step. A member of the United States recently said that there must be a problem and a careful return to the earth. Hv. A senator also asks for a full review of all the legislation. I think we're making important changes that must be followed by an ongoing examination of the law and refinements. Of course, in the case of monitoring, the main thing is that during the stay of foreign police officers, they are under the direction and direction of the local police officer, and it is always a government officer who decides whether foreign police officers should exercise police authority in this country. The Marshal will handle police matters for Ministers and all foreign police officers in this country will work under the government of the United States. American police officers don't come here just on Prüm's basis and act by their rules. Policemen only come here on the basis of this agreement, and U.S. police officers don't even agree, because the Prüm Convention is a partnership with Schengen. It can also be pointed out that it will then be a legal authority where it is expected to be rather orderly. So it's not that we're getting a full-scale plane here by American policemen who can play loose. On the contrary, this is a very important partnership with other police states on the basis of the Prüm Convention, which is in the cooperation of Schengen State and will always be under the direction of the Icelandic police.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u51	A respectable president. We'll discuss a change in police law that involves significant changes in police activities and important changes in police surveillance. To some extent, the bill is a result of a Congress resolution made on the part of Porta, which discussed the independent surveillance of police activities, and is happy that it is now a standing to improve these materials, and it has long been called upon. I don't think with this change, it's not enough to ensure an independent police surveillance. That's why I have a few reasons. I'd like to start by talking about what sparked my sincere interest and passion that independent surveillance was arranged by the police in Iceland. This can be traced back to the town of Hussein, when a spiritually ill man died at the hands of a police officer in 2013, but it can be said that the action of a requested evening would have been considerably better handled. I still have doubts that everything was done to make sure that this man did not lose his life, as the government is obliged to do, including the police. At that time, the district attorney sent a letter to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, where I was also diligent in pointing to that point, in fact, as an unalterable thistle writer, while a newly released lawyer specialised in human rights, to help ensure that the police's activities would be controlled by an independent unit. I'd like to quote only this letter from the State Attorney to the Ministry of Internal Affairs since 2014, by permission of the President: However, in order to increase their confidence that their charges and complaints about police action and tactics are given objective and fair court treatments, a State attorney feels more suitable for individual unity, outside and without involvement with the police, to handle their cases. In this regard it is noted that close cooperation is between police and state prosecutors in cases where the police are investigating and the district attorney has a legal authority and that police officers are more often than not witnesses to the prosecution on serious criminal charges. - This is also true of the district attorney who is now exercising this authority, taking this responsibility. Neither will it be overlooked that the district attorney has a prosecution on matters relating to violations against the government, to which is exactly what I was referring in my case at the highest level. Secretary of the Antiquity Here - ◯skv. 1.mg. 106. g. a general penal law, specifically a violation against police officers. In many cases, because of police interference from citizens in the area where, for example, there is a criminal charge. An incident between police and citizens leads to injuries between the two parties. This is where the district attorney in the Brassville case I was referring to: A recent incident that took place in prison in Reykjavík, where police killed a man with a firearm, is an example of the case discussed in 2 mgr. The suggestion. This letter is followed by the statement given by the local prosecutor on that matter. Also, there are cases when arrests have been killed in a prison cell, which have been investigated by a State Attorney without the actual suspicion of the criminal offense. However, it is very precise to review all police action in a critical manner in which you die or suffer extreme physical damage from police action, or while the individual was in police custody, although there is no suspicion of punishment on the part of police officers. It is no less important to give careful publicity to an independent health care provider regarding the complaints the citizens have on the basis of police procedures. Here we are at this critical point, a respectable president, i.e. When it comes to the planned violations of police officers, it is so important that an independent inspector is involved. This is because it is not enough for justice to be done; it must also appear to be so. It is very important when it comes to this institution, the police authority on the force, that there is no doubt about the independence of the surveillance agency to investigate the intended offense of police officers, and we are specifically talking about incidents where individuals will die in police custody or after police action. There is nothing more important than the fact that the investigation of such matters beyond all doubt and, for example, is under way. In the village I refer to, I am still living with a certain doubt. That's a big part because it wasn't an independent investigator who gave the trial that the doubt still sits in me at least But let's be clear, so I repeat the many times when I was doing a lot of talking about the case, that I have no doubt that the officers who were on the scene who were sent in there did not do everything right at the time; it was the distraction and all around it that raises serious questions about police work. So I'm sorry I didn't see that some work would be put on the job to see if there was no more independent police surveillance. Good and blessing that this committee is getting more clear sources of understanding about police procedures, which is not about the supposed criminal conduct of the police and where the dog is buried. That's the most important part of the show. Most important, independence is complete. It's not easy to have these two projects broken against the government and intended to break police work, as the State Attorney himself indicated, to the same place. That's why I would've wanted to see things better. I would have liked to see us set up an independent agency, turn this committee into an independent agency with the authority of research and, most importantly, the prosecution as well. That's how I feel about it. However, we continue to recuperate and are strengthening police surveillance, which, of course, should be a cause for rejoicing. I wanted to get this over here in 1st. and attracts attention. The General and Education Committee will agree that we keep this in mind in the progress of the case on the Committee. I would also like to discuss the point of giving police authority to foreign police officers. I don't think it's well enough. I don't think it's perfectly defined what this means, and I just think the surveillance of this is very vague. I would like to start by asking: " Who is responsible for the violations of foreign policemen in the United States? How will it be ensured that foreign police officers who find out that jobs will be held accountable for this they will fail here in Iceland? What rules will apply to the arms of foreign police officers allowed to use police authority in Iceland? And what happens, e.g. If a foreign policeman shot an Icelandic citizen? What would help us to resolve such complications? I'd say at least I'd think... How important that we have considered all these questions! We'd have decided what would happen and we'd be at least has defined exactly what police authority involves and how it can be divided into different units and what conditions must be placed in order for a part of the police authority to be granted, or all the police authority, and then exactly what that means. I haven't really found a clear definition or a clear definition of exactly what it means. While it may, of course, be the result of the legal roles of the police, etc. I don't feel quite clear what this means and how it can be divided up and how it will be supervised by foreign police officers who receive this authority, especially since we're not here, that I think, adequate independent police supervision. The importance of being independent of police work is that I think indiscriminately, and this has been repeatedly said by the police, and is expected to increase confidence in the police, increase credibility in the work of the police, and help the police work. As soon as we have an independent organisation that works credible and meets all international police independent surveillance requirements, the police are also much more secure in all their jobs because they can refer to undisputed or at least to non-disputed sources. Implicitly, the findings of an independent monitoring committee that were all right with what the police did. I believe it puts the police in a stronger position, not weaker, that there is a real independent police surveillance. I hope we have the wisdom to take the step to the full and establish an active legal state where there is a fact of real independent police surveillance. That would be a good day.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u52	Mr. President. I mentioned it earlier in answer to the highest. Minister that I thought it was very important to be careful here. Actually, it would have been normal for me to go into total business and to make new police laws and discussions about them. As I said before, it's time to remember the ultimate. The prime minister apologized to the former defendants in the Guðmunds and Geirriður case we all know and to their victims for their injustice. It is particularly involved in the treatment of a study in this matter. So we can see how important it is to take time for this project and go into total activities. Mr. President. I wanted to come to the police only to hire foreign policemen. In Comb 4. The bill says it's at level 9. Police law is added to a new paragraph, as follows: Officers from all over the country who come to work in this country. 1.mg. 1 1. a go with police authority.• This new arrangement, Article 11. a, says the U.S. Marshals decides whether foreign police officers in this country should exercise police authority. I believe, Mr. President, this is a very broad source. Who will make that decision? If we look e.g. of comparable regulations in the 20th chapter. The Norwegian police law says that police law can, in exceptional cases, provide others except those listed in the law. There is also a special provision, for a-butt 20. ...of foreign policemen. Moreover, it states that in exceptional circumstances it is permitted to give them police authority. Despite media discussion that a minister of judicial matters can make special rules about this, the law does not make this clear. I'd like to point out that there are exceptions in the law. I felt that it was right for the Minister of Justice to be such an authority. It would require that such authority and logical support be in accordance with the defined rules, be announcemental, and subject to routine monitoring. That's what I wanted to say about 20. The Norwegian law here, at the beginning of this case. It is very important that the committee examine the Norwegian law when it reviews the bill. Eight. The bill will discuss the role of a surveillance committee. I believe it right, Mr. President, to add a follow-up role, e.g. in order that the Committee will conduct a yearly investigation of police activities through interviews and analysis of police procedures and methodologies compared with the development of international activities and comments on the implementation of police activities in the field of law enforcement, prevention and research. Since recently, the Supreme Court came to a conclusion in a criminal case that we have observed for many years, the Guðmundur case and the Geirfiist case. On the basis of this and comparable foreign affairs, there is good reason to pay close attention and communicate with the public clear comments and suggestions on police reforms, whether in the field of public law, prevention, or research. This approach consists of a similar ideologies to the research committee of transport accidents aimed at identifying factors that can be done better and setting up improvements. In Iceland it's not being done in a specific way. Mistakes like those made in the Guðmunds and the Geimsium and in comparable cases have been observed. the word for complacency. Since a monitoring committee and its review committee would have an opportunity to listen to employees and to see what might be done better. We'll do it when a foreign committee arrives. As I mentioned in counter-reference, a Schengen committee came here to take out our qualifications for the Schengen community service. The conclusion was that significant improvements were needed, and governments put considerable money in it. We need to be on guard and be aware of and monitor the issues that many in the police do know need to be fixed, not arranged, and regularly drawn out so that governments can respond. Thus, Mr. President, must be a guide for such a committee or group of people to take out a procedure, methodology and approach so that the service will be better and more progressive, and we can prevent recurrence of the above - mentioned cases, which have caused much heartache. In comparison, a pilot is not assigned to investigate or cross if something goes wrong, although it is not a legal case. The objective is to find small factors that can have great consequences for those involved. The objective is also to listen to the criticism of employees and others who criticize the system. In the approach to receiving the complaint about police activity, it has been forgotten that those working within it may be interested in doing better within their field of work. However, they need a platform to make it available. So, Mr. President, I'd like to step aside only from the police force of foreign police. I thought it was the highest. A minister skates a little over and makes fun of the whole thing, and she said that there wouldn't be buses full of American police officers. It's just more serious than just to be joking about it, Mr. President. I cannot quickly see that the Danish law in which foreign police authorities are represented is in the case of the 2019 Danish law. In this case, the comparison can be made according to paragraph 14. Police law, No. 90/1996, over the use of force, authorized by police authorities in carrying out their duties. Never, though, should they go beyond the use of power. In comparison, the Danish law detailed when a particular form of force is allowed, as when to use firearms, bats, etc. On the basis of the laws and clear sources, it is further stated in a Regulation established by the Danish Minister of Justice. Therefore, we do well to consider whether it is necessary to include in the laws comparable to that of the Mosaic Law. There is something that the committee must carefully review. I said here at the beginning, Mr. President, it would be normal for me to take all the police action and discuss them. That bill is missing a lot, and I feel that those who didn't win it haven't looked to the Norwegian law or the Danish law I've mentioned here. That law has many good things, and we should look to these nations and their experience in these matters, as we do in many other ways. I feel like there's a lot missing in this regard. Then there is the blurred expansive exposition of the police authority, not limited to successful steps and the need to be very careful. According to this, I hope that the committee will take into account the regulations in the Danish and Norwegian law that I have mentioned here and carefully considered. There is no reason to be hasty in your work. It can only be bad. It is vital to look to all the viewpoints that concern the matter, for of course, this is a very important matter and concern for all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u53	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill for protection, well-being, fishing on wild birds and wild mammals. A Law on Protection, Peace, and Fishing on Wild Birds and Wild mammals, No. In many ways, over 25 years since their appointment, 64/1994 have been able to withstand the passing of time. However, the environment of these cases has changed considerably since the execution of the law. Increased emphasis is placed on climate and environment, more emphasis on the welfare of animals and animal protection, Iceland's commitments on international agreements have changed, and the flow of tourists coming here to examine nature and animal life has increased. In view of this, the Government Treaty, by permission of the President, shows that an animal life in Iceland is part of the Icelandic nature to be protected. Nature is also the largest attraction in Iceland for tourists. The legislation on protection, peace, and fishing needs to be reviewed on wild birds and wild mammals. This led to the beginning of the revision of current law. For the sake of work, a report on the legal and administrative status of wild birds and mammals was conducted on July 9, 2010 by the then Environment Minister. The committee was designed to shed clear light on the legal status of wild birds and wild mammals in Iceland, including the U.S. with regard to animal protection issues and to offer proposals for reform, guided by meeting the objectives of existing legislation and the international agreements available in Iceland, and in protecting wild birds and wild mammals and hunting them. The committee produced a extensive and careful report on the legal and administrative status of wild birds and wild mammals on April 3, 2013. The report discussed some of the principles based on the suggestions of the group, which were: 1st To promote the development of nature by its own laws, 2 to ensure the protection of wild animals, that all animals will be placed at peace and that they will be viewed as sentient beings that should be treated with dignity and with the guidance of their well - being, 3 to ensure that the habitats of wild animals are not affected by the threat of access and natural diversity, 4 to ensure that wild animals are protected from any kind of man's activity or other life forms that threaten the survival and variety of animals, 5. to emphasize the reduction of peace and fishing permits is based on sound information on stock size and fishing tolerance of the target or on the damage it may cause. The lack of information should be interpreted in favour of wild animals or nature, and hunting methods should take into account the welfare and biology of the particular species in terms of fear, pain, and death war, with a view to minimising these factors as possible. In that case, the well - being and maintenance of stocks should be kept in place beyond traditions and special interests. For it will ensure the sustainable use and access of future generations to them. V.E.G. President. The bill suggests significant changes in the laws of protection, peacemaking, and hunting of wild birds and wild mammals compared to current law No. 64/1994. The main indicators are more extensive targets, specific refinements in force and more detailed definitions of the role and activities of the Ministry and other members involved in these issues. Increased emphasis is on the protection of wild birds and wild mammals and their main habitats because they are an important part of Iceland's nature, increased emphasis on animal protection and the well - being of wild mammals and wild mammals. The special needs of the fishermen who are permanently bound to use a wheelchair allowing them to have as much opportunity as others do. Changes are made in forbidden fishing machines. Arts for wild birds and wild mammals are legalized. For all species or strains of wild birds and wild mammals, management and protection programmes will be implemented. Decisions for protection and fishing on the basis of the law should be based on scientific and professional government and protection programmes. All use fishing on wild birds and wild mammals will become sustainable. Several changes are made in the fishing card system. The effects of wild birds and wild mammals will be more targeted and organized. Fishing control and hunting control will be legalized for all species of wild birds and wild mammals. Sales on the hunting grounds of wild birds and wild mammals depend on the sustainable tolerance of such sales by the environmental providers. I'm not going to take a closer look at all the details I've listed here, but I want to discuss some of these items and first discuss the objective terms of the bill. They are the core of the bill, and there are reasons behind the individual paragraphs of the bill. When this article was started, the principles given on the legal and administrative situation of wild birds and mammals were widely addressed and the suggestions of the group were based on which I traced them. In addition to the findings, objective measures have been added to the important objective of trusting the monitoring and effective management of hunting, as well as the aim of meeting international commitments in this area to which Iceland is responsible, both of which are essential to the implementation of these lands. The bill highlights the role of the institutions and other parties in the implementation of these matters more than in the current law. On the one hand, the policy role of the Environment and Resource Ministry of this trade and on the other hand, on the tasks of the Ministry's individual professions to work and to take responsibility. This refers specifically to the work and function of the European Environment Agency and the EEA, both of which play a key role in the implementation of these issues. There are also clear reasons for the role of certain other parties in the implementation of these measures, such as the Precinct and the Eastern Nature Agency. In view of the important role that both Iceland's Natural Science Agency and the EEA will have, this bill will be a law, including Based on the management and protection programmes, it is very important that the work programme of these strains is clear and that there is no doubt about the role of either set. The bill basically assumes that Iceland's Natural Science Institute plays a research and monitoring role in the media, while the EEA oversees the activities of protection, peace and hunting. In addition, the Agency is proposed to have control and control of the fishing and to carry out the general procedure of the law. In addition, the EEA and the National Institute of Natural Nature, as well as the European Environment Agency, play a key role in managing and protecting programmes for wild birds and wild mammals, which will be the main basis for the most important decision making in the affairs of wild birds and wild mammals. It is expected that there will also be a clear task exchange between these institutions, although the EEA has the highest responsibility for the development of the programme. The management and protection plan is one of the main changes required in the bill according to current legislation. It is especially recommended that such programs be planned for all major species of wild birds and wild mammals. However, the bill states that such strategies should be focused on the design of species that have suffered some use or are likely to cause harm. The legalisation of the management and protection plans can be said to be the heart of this bill and the main change from existing law on this subject. The design of such programs lays an important basis for ever being based on relevant, professional and scientific information regarding protection, control and control of wild animals. This methodology will ensure that in one place all necessary information needs to be found on the relevant species or stock before governments make important decisions. Such plans would be published publicly so that they would be accessible to the public. Although a management and protection programme is expected to be a complete strategy, it is also expected to be based on two major factors. It is requested that Iceland's Natural Science Institute, which in accordance with the Agency's legislation on basic research in zoology and in Iceland's nature, handles the work programme. The Agency recognizes its assessment of stock size, stock development, spread, management, fishing tolerance and ideal protection status and the need for relevant species or stock and changes. The other major part of the plan is the management part. It is requested that the Agency, which conducts the administration and conduct of these matters, handle this part of the programme. It is expected that the management factor will be based on its protective part, on its means and on measures to address the changes in the state and protection status of species, such as recovery, maintenance or reduction of stock size and spread of specific species, as well as the suggestions on how to use or fish, if appropriate, and measures to react to the damage caused by wild birds and wild mammals. In addition, the Agency is requested to be in charge of the project and to submit the proposal that the overall strategy for management, approval and publication should be carried out by one defined member of the administration board. In principle, a management and protection programme assumes that Iceland's Institute of Natural Sciences provides their viewpoint on the basis of the stock and its protection needs, while the EEA provides suggestions on how to work out the results in order to achieve a defined goal. If there is a basis for fishing from the stocks, the management part of the programme should follow the EEA's updated proposal for such fishing. Management and protection programmes for individual strains or species will therefore be evaluated for the need for protection and peace and, on the other hand, for the natural and sustainable use. Such a whole plan ensures that the decision to make peace or to use individual species or to establish wild animals is based on well - developed scientific grounds. The bill, as previously stated, puts the Agency priority of the project in order to focus on the development of such strategies for wild birds and wild mammals who have been treated in the field and species that are believed to be harmful in certain situations, such as some. Fox and certain types of birds. When managing individual species or institutions, a management and protection plan is established, they will become an important professional basis for a minister before making decisions on the recovery of peace for use, or for the protection and control of such fishing practices. It is important that these plans become alive and are reviewed as often as necessary. Therefore, the bill contains a set of requirements that be reviewed every five years or more if needed. The bill suggests that approved management and protection programmes also play an important role in establishing a set and clear framework of authority for the EEA to provide reserves for fishing on certain types of wild birds and wild mammals that are believed to cause harm in certain locations or in designated circumstances, even if a minister has not lifted the peace of part-made species. Thus, the bill provides an important tool, not only for the peace and protection of individual species, but also to allow fishing for certain strains or species that are believed to be potentially damaging or at risk of harming the interests defined in the bill and that such decisions are based on the best scientific judgment available at each particular time. It is important to have good information on the position and development of the strains of the species that the law takes into account. This is true not only for local birds but also for mammals who spend the whole year here and for migratory birds that come to regular springs and fall on their journey between winter and lay stops in other countries. The bill suggests that wild birds and wild mammals are legally established here and have a role in this relationship. This is in accordance with the proposal of the above-mentioned legal review. In line with established international standards for such lists, Iceland's Institute of Natural Science is assigned to take care of all birds and mammals, as recommended by the International Protection Agency, IUCN. The problem is that species of birds and mammals are grouped into different state-and-risk categories by type status and changes in its size over the previous years. A list is divided into several different categories of protection and conditions across species that are considered to be at different risk and species that are not considered to be at risk. The bill does not recommend that a species be grouped into one of these three groups on the problem list will automatically result in protection or peace measures. It is expected that measures for protection and use or action due to risk of damage will always be developed and provided in the management and protection programme established by the Minister and published. One of the factors to be considered in a management and protection program is that they enter the assessment of potential fishing. It is then followed by the Minister's Regulation or by the Agency's authority under the bill. The bill discusses the damage caused by wild birds and wild mammals, but the main action and action resulting from waste and risk damage caused by individual species or species and wild mammals should be carried out in a management and protection programme for individual species. It will determine whether the species could cause real damage to people's health or livestock, threats to security, economic damage, or threats to or significant impact on the environment and its biodiversity. When such an assessment is made, a minister may decide on a response due to general damage, e.g. by reducing the period or even the year - to - year period of peace from the specified species in designated areas. Thus, a minister has more than enough permission to ease the peace of those species of wild birds and wild mammals by means of a directive, believing that there is a need. At the same time as secretary's sources, the Agency is expected to be able to suggest in management and protection programmes that the Agency is provided with a set specific authority for the hunting management under the bill. Even if peace has not been lifted or has been lifted only at the specified times of the year, the Agency can still provide a reserve for terms of peace under certain types of conditions or areas, as there is the possibility of the species causing real and defined damage in accordance with the conditions of this article. The Exceptions need to be in accordance with an agreed management and protection programme. Thus, such barriers from waste management and damage are shifted from the Environment and Resource Minister to the EEA to be legally the bill. With these changes, a more clear and better case treatment for injury and harm to wild animals is being provided than in existing laws, as well as strengthening the professional basis for decision-making measures to address the injury and harm caused by such animals. The bill also suggests that the EEA is assigned to accept and record damage reports for those who wish to make such announcements. It is important that such announcements be collected so that you can identify the extent of damage caused by wild birds and wild mammals. In addition, it is recommended that the Agency should guide the prevention of damages, but it must be considered that it is important for the Agency to have a specific instruction and instruction in this regard. The bill discusses fishing practices and suggests that the use of a bat in fishing for rye, column, and sharps will be completely banned and no longer be allowed to use a bow at animal hunting. Both of these are proposed on the basis of high - risk policy, as well as on which these methods conflict with international agreements made by Iceland. According to the bill, it will be permitted to use a sound tank or sound transfer on firearms, both rifles and shotguns, for weapons meet the requirements of weapons. A firearm sound that is used in these situations cannate the sound of the shot to below the point of pain, but it is far from silent. Soil fishing has been used for a period of time, protecting the hearing of fishermen and guides by reindeer fishers, but it is much less ideal not to cause extensive interference, damage to the environment and animal life as well as less relapses and to the rest. The general rule of fishing here is that only motor vehicles can be used to transport fishermen and fishermen, but such devices are forbidden to fire. The bill contains a legal basis for the fishermen who are bound to use a wheelchair so that they can go fishing from vehicles. The law is trying to help such individuals gain more space in order to practice and enjoy leisure fishing. Various reforms are provided for reindeer fishing, and guideliness are being imposed. But I don't think there's any particular reason to trace it here, but I refer to the X chapter of the bill. V.E.G. Clearly, there are other factors and changes from the current law in the bill that I don't consider material to cover here, but the moisture is in detail with the bill. But I feel that there is finally reason to mention a few words of the provisional principle of the bill. It is clear that it will take some time to introduce the principal control tool of the bill, which is a management and protection program for individual species of wild birds and wild mammals. Il. The provisional regulations of the bill are given that the EEA and the National Institute of Nature for Iceland should be within two years of the implementation of the law's legislation and protection programmes for the species or institutions that have so far been subjected to any special use or fishing or are likely to cause harm. In III. provisional measures are recommended to be allowed by a minister, until management and protection programmes are established according to II. provision for temporary reduction of peace and homes of crops, egging and fishing for the prevention of species or strains of wild birds and wild mammals, which are recommended in section V, were found to be the source of the information of the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Agency. This reduction of peace due to reindeer fishing is based on chapter X. With these requirements, it is guaranteed that there will be no interference with traditional fish, whether use or damage caused by certain species, until the new control systems of the bill can be acted upon. A respectable president. I've traced the main subject of this bill and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u54	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I especially rejoice that the processing of the bill was tried as much as possible to look to the wild beast report called. It has a good and professional job that is natural to look to. But in view of this, I would like to ask: Why was the decision to replace this bill with the animal report of the sea mammals? It is clear in chapter 9 of this report that in view of international agreements and that environmental principles also reach marine mammals, animal laws reach whales and seals. Why was this not done?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I agree that there's a lot of good publicity in the animal report, if you can call it, about seals and whales or sea mammals. The reason it's not in this bill is simply that the decision was not reached on the matter between the recruitment of environmental and resource resources and the labour department, but I believe for myself that the next step is to bring these two factors under the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u56	Mr. President. I think we need to be clear about which party we're talking about. Did not counseling have a conclusion, or did it not reach a conclusion, between the political ministers governing it? Is there a disagreement between the board of directors about following the professional advice of the authors behind the bug report, allowing them to undermine the powerful instrument that animal law can provide for animal protection? I'll just mention a few things. We are not just talking about some peacemaking of animals, although it applies to the seal on the natural science agency's disaster. We are also talking about setting up some limits to how they associate with big bangs at the scene. This destruction in the Icelandic code of laws is a major problem in normal contact with these animal strains. Is it really so, Mr. President, that there is a political disagreement between the minister of the seafaring and the secretary of the environment not being able to get together for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I'd like to point out that the highest. A marine and agricultural minister made a suggestion, probably at the last legislation, to change the law of salmon and trout fishing that takes in the seals that were approved here at the General Assembly and was greatly improved. I just continue to think that sea mammals should be exposed to this code. That did not come true, as I described in the previous answer, but that does not mean that the issue cannot be continued later. At least I myself will continue to make the cause of a success.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of history on bill for protection, welfare, and hunting laws on wild birds and wild mammals. It is a huge matter in itself when a full reexamination of the law provides the framework for sustainable use and protection of wild animals in Iceland. First, I'd like to direct the question to the Minister if the legal matters regarding the management and protection plans and the planning of fish are completely devoted, as if he went over to the last part of his speech. I think this is one of the important things to be very clear in the treatment of the committee. Then I wanted to ask out a little about the topic of national peace. It is not in itself a change in these suggestions, but is there evidence that all nonviolent vasculture radios are useful or that all useful vasculatures are peaceful - and are important?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think that these provisional laws are absolutely clear in terms of the fact that, first of all, the Institute of Nature and the Agency has two years from the institution to complete the implementation of management and protection plans, which are key tools that we already have to plan for decision-making. Similarly, I believe that it is quite ready to have this source in the meantime after the law takes effect and until administrative and protective programs are ready to lift the peace of that animal and turn around to vote for crops, eggs, and fishing for the defences that these animals may bring. I don't have any information about it as a dog. A senator asked about the peace profile of a TV, but I will try to get that information below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I wish that the missing information will be obtained and it will also be presented when the bill is introduced to the Committee. I wanted to ask you about egglets, if they change anything from what is now, if this bill is a law. That's very clear, I think, with permission to take up property countries, but what about the public, news? Is allowed, for example. picking up the egg of the heathen? Then I wanted to ask a few questions about the cross between weapons layer and wild animals. V.E.G. A minister in his history came in on a ban on the use of animal bows and clubs that have been used in a particular custom wave, but then I also know that certain people, Iceland's Bounty Association, have requested permission to hunt with a bow in this country. Was it checked? Do weapons laws or other causes, such as the welfare of animal sources, interfere? Then I'd like to ask if there's any change in the process of crying, saying what's been called a cry-time.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u61	V.E.G. President. A little more about a blood vessel from earlier on. Vascular radios are recorded, but some are not peaceful and others are not. I don't have exactly the number. We'll try to get this information for why. A senator for a visit to the Committee. But what is actually doing turns to stress the peace - telling idea of vascular radios so that they can enjoy the laws of the law. The point is being strengthened. For egg induction, it is allowed in the general public for certain species listed in this article. In the case of archers, there is a strong concordance with arms laws. It was discussed whether such permission should be granted temporarily provided that it would resist arms laws. But we thought that it would be better for weapons to be changed before such a time. Of course, this is always something the committee can consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for History here on bill to legalize the protection, welfare, and hunting of wild birds and wild mammals. I'm gonna try to make good time. Forty-two. magazine on fishing for the harm done by wild birds and wild mammals. There are some guidelines for this subject and how to protect yourself from harm. So I'd like to ask you about something like that. A wing and a goose. You see, I notice in 29. ... oftheuse fishing of birds, of which the minister is authorized by regulations, as stated in 54. .........., cutting back the peace of the following species of birds, as measured by 17. gr., within a set time period, but it will be taken over, as about grayness and pagan goose and more birds. Álfirirs have been embezzled and certainly it's a very tight case, it's really a majestic and beautiful bird. But in view of this, I'd like to ask a minister if he didn't speak of having his elf inside this category, for it certainly falls under that category, in the form of a fire for protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u63	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is eager for the inquiry, and of course, I answer only half of it. The first half. This issue, which is designed to protect and protect people, can be removed from them if it is to protect them from harm. In case of a moment. A senator looks at 43 st. it allows the Agency to provide temporary and conditional evasion for fishing, to which this can be expected. But then it plays as well with 18. g., if I recall correctly, which is exactly the one involved in defense of loss. This was shown in the review process and was tried to meet these views, in that these two articles agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I would have liked to have it a little clearer with regard to entrails. I asked specifically in an inscription because it is completely peaceful. I also wondered that we are members of an organization that even mountains. about strains on wild birds and mammals. I think it's very important that you begin to define the size of the population, e.g. yogg, yogg, and an entourage, for it is also part of protecting wild animals that they must not multiply too much because it could cause access to our resources and adversely affect the trunk itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u65	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. A senator says it's just those measurements on the size of the stocks that matter. It may be the red strand through this bill, and the main recommendation may be to set in motion a model estimate, fishing tolerance, etc., how it is developing over time, and so on in the streets. In fact, it is to be earned for all institutions. It is very important that this is in, i.e. the obligation to implement management and protection programmes for all of these institutions on the basis of scientific knowledge, relevant sources and monitoring of time, which also matter, so that we try to overcome the core variability, and that decisions are made on the basis of professional and scientific failures.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u66	Mr. President. I'm going to direct a few questions to the highest level. Environment Minister. First, regarding customs that have been practiced in some parts of the country, mainly in the South, i.e. Fishing on tabloids, which have been widely practiced under the island mountains and perhaps beyond and is an old custom. It says that the practice of catching untrained young people is largely disappearing. I think it may not be at all at the right price. It's a very old and common custom back there. I'd like to ask if it's strictly against the law. This also applies to customs in Western islands that go about catching unhindered poles and spending a long time there and still being practiced. I would like to ask if a environmental minister is saying that this will all go away, even if it is practiced as a sort of tradition and to keep tradition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Whatever it is. Regarding the charge, one member gives the animal protection proposal, and it is assumed that the killing method involved is being handled. We are also members of international agreements that allow for certain desirable ways and others that are undesirable when these factors occur. It follows what must be considered less painful for animals, one of the objectives of the bill, and also to fulfill our international commitments.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for this input. I would also like to mention that there is an argument about what is humane or protecting animals and what is best for animals. I don't know about the shootouts. They might hurt more birds than they do. It's a very fast way to kill an animal, i.e. Knocking the chicks out, you can't do this any more quickly. All I want to do is mention native fishing, as we might think it is. Is that supposed to be an entirely offline with some of these views? I object against forbidding it altogether. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on clearance at 54th. the bill, i.e. Minister's legal rights. I think they're quite extensive, Mr. President, I must say. It tells us that a minister is permitted in a Regulation to recommend the further implementation of these laws, as is now the custom of the law. But I'd especially like to point out a few points there. For the sake of the time, I'm just going to point out a b-line in which a minister is expected to be allowed by a Regulation to peace and to increase the protection of the important bird-seaser, as mentioned in the bill. I just think it's far too extensive a warrant, Mr. President, to be taken along by a minister to peaceful territory, and there the birds are taken along. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of hunting guard. I feel like there's a shot off at 50th and 51st. That's what we're talking about. The EEA's hunting guard. Is there a special police authority being transferred to the EEA? Is it to be a hunting ground for some sort of surveillance plan, Mr. President, which is the exception of information law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u69	V.E.G. President. If fishing was the way it would be informed ahead of time, I'm afraid it would be difficult to deal with lawbreakers. [[Up front.]] I think that's got to be obvious, huh? Senator. To answer only to the rules' sentences, I don't think there's anything unusual in this list that's a collection of what's stated on the bill. That's why we're here. A member of the Parliament, especially the bird farms and the bird settlements. Notes were taken into account that appeared during the excerpt procedure around these areas in 10. .. that there would be a rule of two miles [2 km] during lay, or another 200 - foot [500 m] rule. I'd like to make it clear about the surveillance role and duties of the EEA that there is no police authority. That's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The Environment and Resource Minister for providing this large bill called a bill for the Protection, Safety and Fishing of Wild Birds and Wild mammals, if plans go forward, a quarter-year-old Act on Protection, Peace and Fishing in Wild Birds and Wild mammals since 1994. Hence, there will be a change in the term "sacrifice " to the term" well - being. " Many things happen in the long run, both in nature and in our environment, and in this context. Our attitudes and priorities change as well as our values for various aspects of this neighborhood. The environment of these cases has changed, and it is no doubt due to a number of factors in the bill, now of 1. Umm... that's what it's for. In the Treaty of the Government since late 2017, a review or update of these laws is mentioned and it is certainly part of Icelandic nature that we must protect. In addition, nature is the one factor that draws to a country the most large part of tourists. This law bill is quite a factor in growth and in Article 1. shows the purpose of the law, and seven teams are mentioned. I think it's highly recommended that the 1994 law actually stood the right times and the changing national life in 25 years, and they're not very small. However, the bill puts much more emphasis on various things that we lack in today's languages and that will be of importance in the immediate future, i.e. Environment and climate and animal health and animal protection. We have begun to view the lives of these animals differently, many of which have become man's best friend and interests, the activities of many people, and the goals of many people who are protecting animals. In this regard, there are also some commitments that we have made in our dealings with other nations, international agreements that are in harmony in this field, and as I mentioned earlier, these laws are also being revised in the light of the increased interaction we have with foreign people who come here, and including those that have been presented in discussions and objections, making this seem to be the hunt and management and control of wild birds and wild mammals. The bill presents considerable changes in all this protection, peace and well - being of wild birds and wild mammals from the old law. This is mentioned in the bill of many teams, I think it's one of 14 teams. One of the primary objectives of the bill is to make sure that biodiversity is not being practiced. These are not necessarily controversial matters. In the political and resource management, this can be a sensitive issue, and it was introduced in the past as to why marine mammals are not a part of the protection, welfare, and fishing bill on wild birds and wild mammals. In fact, you may be suspicious of the cause. Because it involves war but powerful interests. It has often been said, and it has claimed that a multiplicity of bird life is one of the best indicators on whether ecosystems can be considered healthy, indicating the scope of biodiversity. Perhaps in this brief talk, I will primarily discuss the birds. There is some list of birds that a minister is authorized by Regulation, sir. 54. ... toreflashaturation,brush. 17th g., within a particular time period. For example, since September 1 through March 31, the types of birds that a minister is permitted to restore peace are quite some. It is a dillaby, top stylist, chandelier, skunk, helgi, woodpet, eel, poultry, cyborg, cuckoo, skull, top hand, and literature. And from September 1 to May 10, it is an inscription, a Longevity, a short nose, a teaist, and a temper. This may appear Spanish because some of these species are on a list and have been at peace for years. It does not seem that there is reason to allow fishing on apes. Both the winter stocks are small, a few hundred birds, and so is a proletariat on a bug as a species at risk. Bulkosh is also mentioned, although she has been at peace for many years and is also on a motif. There is no sign that it will increase in the number of prey. So the question may arise: Why is it mentioned on this list? Álka, Lálvisa, Trench, Testimist, and Manipulist are found on the downside and on the ostracism, and especially the short-nosed palaces have their feet. The greenhouse effect is thought to have the most impact on the reduction in these birds, but it cannot be seen that they will soon fade. It is reason to wonder if this bill, which is so extensive in size, should be referred to below. The environment and transport committees and there provide opportunities to discuss their various aspects of education, conversations and visits, and a number of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u71	Mr. President. I think it's important that Congress is not just talking about inflation and growth. We need to talk much more about animals and especially about animal protection. I'd like to encourage the highest. Environment Minister to counter me and possibly answer a few questions I can direct to him here because I know he's here listening, normal. I have allowed animal protection to affect me in the broad sense of that word. I've adopted a wildcat, I've informed the nation of so-called blood glucose management, and I've called attention to the massive fishing of one of Iceland's real settlers, Icelandic foxes, who are killed each year in Iceland. According to official figures, 70,000 foxes were killed in Iceland over a period of 12 years. I'd like the highest stand. Environment Minister to these fish, first of all, on a fox, and also on other species that I deal with below. I have been critical that the present government is one of the few in the world who allows fishing on the second - largest animal on earth, the long - hoped - for animal. The world list is in danger of extinction. This is very unusual on the part of a government where left is green at the administration, and it is peculiar in view of the fact that the left green control of the Environment Ministry. I'm well aware that whales are hearing under a fishing minister, but this is one government. I think it's critical, and I'd like to have the support of a environmental minister, who I know cares about animals and is a animal protection like me. I want him to come and fight with us and the example of this fishing. We need all hands. I encourage him to participate in the discussion in this hall because he is a minister and it is important that he make his point here. I have a feeling he agrees with me. We're allies here. In all kindness, I would like to encourage him to come and condemn this fishing in length of time. They are totally unnecessary, a child of their time, a time error. The last news says they don't even pay. But the government has allowed one company to practice them, even though they were not in progress last summer. Allow. The last time I knew, this same government was also checking whether or not certain seals should be fished, including one of the nation's high - risk endangered countries, which has decreased by 80% by Icelanders. Earlier this year, reports that fishermen wanted to hunt the country. I don't know if the government gave the permit, but maybe it's the best. The secretary of the environment. Has it been allowed to fish on seals or not? Landsels have decreased by 80%. The other species, the facility, is also in some danger. This is an expression from the Institute of Natural Science. This isn't some wording I'm making up. Landsels are in grave danger of extinction in this country, and the way they call it, they're in any danger. The fox, the whale, the dealer. Let's get to the birds. Last assembly, I received an answer from the highest. Environment Minister to my written request for hunting birds on a gaming list, as it's called. It shows that the environmental minister, who is subject to him, allows fishing on 15 species, which are on the official's defined problem list, which means they're in danger. The list of these birds is here, 15 species of birds that are either in immediate danger, at risk, at any risk, or at imminent risk. This is the classification of Iceland's Natural Science Institute, these are the threats of the institution. Why is it that we have a environmental minister who is left green and allows this? The principle is that birds are at peace in Iceland. Only five species of birds can be fished all year round. To catch the others, we need permission. This includes the raven. He is one of the species of birds that can be fished all year round. I'm worried about the raven. Each year as many as 3,000 ravens are killed, and this has taken place during the past ten years. This annual hunting of the raven is believed to be more than 20% of its total stock. What is particularly critical is that the raven is one of the birds on which the same government operates. Why are birds both in the same government and in the fishing lists? Iceland's Institute of Natural Sciences likewise presents an acute threat. Yet, in 2018, 26,000 gardens were caught. How is it that we do not listen to the experts who have identified 15 species at risk? At the same time, homes fishing on them. That's what matters. Why does governments find it normal to allow animals to fish in disaster? I'm not messing with everybody. I'm criticizing the fishing of bird species and other species of animals that are in the middle of the country, the long shot, or the 15 species of birds. And then I've been Greek at the fox hunts. I find nothing particularly green or self-sustaining in this position of the government. I've mentioned the long-term destruction, the seals, the birds. Let's get the horses, let's go to vampires. What are vampires? Blood is taken from pregnant mares so that precious hormones can be processed from those who are then given to pigs to increase their fertility. The sheep are then usually slaughtered. It's a big industry in Iceland. I've taken this up at a council meeting before, and I've had written answers from counsellors at the same time that some 5,000 British mares are used for this purpose, and we can take five gallons of blood from each horse for eight times every season. I was recently interviewing one of Sweden's largest environmental protection magazines. The article was called Iceland's Red Gold. Here came a Swedish journalist reporting on this industry, the blood supply in Iceland. It shows that the production has tripled since 2009. The head of the Icelandic company, the only one who buys this blood and does this in this country, says: ▪ If our product was as expensive as gold, tomorrow we would be bankrupt. That's what's valuable. The Swedish journalist said that this case was difficult to discuss in the country. Or what? Do people know about this trade? It's been a long time in Iceland, I know it. I'm not saying that the Icelandic goody does bad things to his horses, just not at all. They usually treat their horses well, though there are other examples, and they have gripped this industry more than once and more than twice in the written answer I have received from a minister. I feel that there is a time error in making marshes so that the production of pigs can be increased. It is simply questionable in my mind. I feel like we can pull a line into the sand. Other countries have forbidden this, e.g. This is being stopped 15 years ago and there is now a discussion at the European Parliament to prohibit the import of these hormones from South America after two million signatures were collected. Mr. President. The Icelandic horse deserves better than this use of it. Or what do environmental ministers think? How does he feel about blood circulation? It may well be said that this is subject to agrienvironmental development. But I'm looking for his opinion as an ally in the battle for improved animal protection in Iceland. Finally, I'd like to mention another species, but there's less. Not long ago, disturbing reports of a mutant variant of the Korean virus were received in Danish minas. It is thought that it was originally passed from people to mink, but then mutants came back to people. There was a possible risk of this mutant virus's effects on existing vaccines, and these were considered by the Icelandic government. So far from that, let's just look at a minute of mines in Iceland. Today, there are nine minutes of field service here, 31 of which were six years ago. Work bones are only 30. This will be considered extremely small in view of the possible cost of sacrifice. I'd like to say that breeding on the basis of their skin is a complete time error and not in line with the present time when animal protection comes. Many clothing producers have long ceased to use the skin of living animals. In addition, skin prices have been far lower than cost of production. It is therefore difficult to see justification in this industry. Therefore, I suggest that the government will make the few fur settlements that remain to cease their operations by granting them strength. It is possible to think of a similar arrangement as the government strengthens farmers who have to cut down sheep because of a pine. Norwegians have decided to ban this culture since 2025 and many other European countries have already banned it. Let's cut off fur farms in Iceland and make the few farmers who are still scraping in this industry an opportunity to end with dignity. Let's take this step, Mr. President. Pelsar is not an essential warning. Finally, Mr. President, I feel that environmental discussions in Iceland need to be improved. I feel that the environment is not only about rocks and growling but also about the animals. It has truly been missing in this country. Now I've mentioned a few species where we can do much better. We can be much better when it comes to animal protection. Let us take more drastic steps to protect animals, not to mention endangered animals. I don't think so. Let's start there, but let's also take a molarian stand against memory, blood control, and massive fishing. I want to direct them to the highest level. Environment Minister to accompany me in the process of raising animal and animal protection. It would be most welcome if he would be clear afterward about his position, his political stand for the fish I have mentioned, and what he will do to change it within the government. He's in position of authority, and I encourage him for good works, from now on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u72	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator very much for this discussion. I love to come up here and discuss these matters with the senator. It caught my attention that he mentioned that he wanted more extensive and broad discussion about the environment, not just about rocks and snarl. As a matter of fact, I think we've always moved farther and farther in the environmental discussion, and it is now much more than that, which is also an important area. I encourage the senator to support the bill, that's for progress. One of the things that the senator mentioned was these. I also watched these legal articles, and I saw that there are some of the species that are being listed, even though they're also on the bill, like in 29. which I know that the senator is referring, but don't forget that the peace need to be removed to 29. value. What we're doing with the bill is right about moving the system to a conclusion that we can take into account that animals are going on a list because in a management and protection programme, which is to work and is a scientific basis for government decisions, we need to take into account and examine the exact list. Arts aren't in the law today. They are not required to do so today. Therefore this is a great thing for an animal, that this list of things should be specifically required, and that it should not be considered for them. I'll come in on more things in the second answer below.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u73	Mr. President. Fearably, it was some systematic answer. What is the minister's position on fishing during long periods of time? Does he support them or does he not support them? What about seal fishing? I'm the highest. Minister to review this in a later answer. Is he going to stop hunting on birds that are already on the list? He has that power. Let's start with the birds. V.E.G. Minister, give the Reich and the nation a clear answer. What are we going to do about selling seals? Have they been authorized? What is the minister's attitude toward them? What about the long-term emergency? Will they be caught next summer? Will a minister support it, or will he use his power to prevent it? He mentioned himself to me about the gypsies, the 15 species of birds I could handle are already on the list. Why is the government, the environmental minister, authorized to fish on them? I have numbers, they're from the highest. Environment Minister himself, about how many birds are caught by birds that are on the list. It's the highest. Doesn't a minister say, "Here and no further, there won't be any hunting on birds on a motif?" Or what? The music's in. And what is the position on blood circulation and memory? I know it's the highest. Minister doesn't have many minutes left, but I encourage him to give clear answers to the council and to the nation. He must have political views on this. That's what I'm calling out for. At the end, he might mention his view of a fox hunt. Sold, whales, birds, blood circulation, and minks.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u74	V.E.G. President. Well, when senators ask a lot of questions, you can't get over them all. I wanted to start by discussing this systematically because we are making a system change, and it will matter as I came in. But I also promised the senator earlier that I would break my views here. If I just start with what's going on with the big whales, it's clear what my position is there. I'm not following this kind of hunting. I've made it clear the entire election period. But, hey. A senator knows as well as I do that it is not in my power to decide whether such fishing will take place or not. This does not mean that the government is in the land. I'd like to come in on the seal just because I'm not really in what the senator asks me about, what the situation is on right now. But this was an approved bill from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister, probably last year, of the changes in salmon and trout fishing laws that require the limitations of seal fishing. I'm not quite prepared for the procedure, unfortunately, I can't tell you what to do. That's what a senator's got to do with it. I'd also like to come on the fox because it's a very important thing to me. I feel that sometimes during the conversation in Iceland, and perhaps in the opinion of the fox, it is one of the worst things to do. I don't agree with that. The fox may have a right to exist that is stronger than other animals here, both farm animals and other wild animals that have been transferred to the country simply because he is a land cancer animal. I think the system we're setting up now in this legislation is a means of strengthening the protection of foxes, simply because the damage is needed. So we're building all these decisions on a scientific basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u75	Mr. President. I know it's the highest. A minister cannot answer me again, but he can give another speech. He didn't say anything about the birds that are under him, fishing on birds on a gook. I encourage him to give another talk and explain why he stands for such things. He named the seals, the whales, and the fox, but the birds are big. He didn't say anything with the blood flow, and nothing with the minks. I would also like to encourage him to express his opinion in this regard. I know that he can't do that in return, but he can do so in another speech or on other occasions, perhaps in preparation as everyone has to do. I encourage him to get more involved in this discussion, which attracts animals and animal protection. Animal life in Iceland is not very diverse, and we are to protect it, and we are also to be ready for global animal protection. There are a number of species at risk. The conditions and habitats of many animal species are tight, and we are expected to be on the lead in this regard. We have spoken very clearly in the realm of the United Nations and other institutions for sustainable fishing, at the end of the major interests of the Icelanders. But when it comes to polar matter, furouins, birds, etc. There we can speak again and again, I'd like to encourage the whole of Congress and the nation to expand this environmental debate not only about rocks and waterfalls, but also about rock and waterfalls. I think after a few years, five to six, ten years, the discussion on animal protection, the conditions of animals and their equipment, especially the animals we're producing, so to speak, will be far more foreground. That's what matters. This is a future case, and animal protection has to do with the benefit of the human race. This is especially evident in our modern - day crowner's case. The virus spread from animal to animal because of bad equipment and close association of humans and animals under tragic conditions in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u76	Mr. President. We'll discuss a wild animal bill that's had quite a long lead. It's taken a few solidties to get to this place. Holt and ball is a good bill, because it's based on professional and hard work at least ten years. The sideline through the bill is suggestions made by experts in a report of the legal and administrative status of wild birds and mammals set up in July 2010 by the then environmental minister, but unfortunately it was not possible to win a bill at that time and now, this long afterwards, is being taken up again and hopefully sailing this ship into port. I want to make a subject of the animal species that are still suggested to separate these laws. There are whales and seals, the sea mammals, who hear under the ocean's dignitary and agricultural ministers and live in an impossible position. The poor and out - of - date laws apply to the status of the animal species, which is one of the most clear advice in the wild beasts report on which this bill is based, namely, that new animal laws should reach both seals and whales. This ensures that environmental rights apply to these animals, such as other wild animals, will help Iceland meet the international agreements in the field of nature that we have under control, and it is also necessary to handle, for example, the situation. the position where sea mammals are caught in a fishing net or in order to provide some kind of permission system, some sort of quality system, some kind of moral and sexual code of whale inspection. That step is not taken in the bill we have here, but it does describe the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister believes that sea mammals should be exposed to this series of laws, only to be the next step. It's a familiar line because it's exactly what was said when it came to handling how the administrative issues were to be changed between the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Marine Department and Agriculture Ministry when they were formed during the restructuring of the Council's Council in the summer of 2012. Just then, incorrigation was to transfer seals and whales to the Neo-created Environmental and Resource Ministry. Then it was quite natural to say: The next step must do so. It has been nearly nine years since the transfer of marine mammals to the Environment and Resource Ministry was supposed to be the next step, and therefore environmental and resource administrators are still having trouble doing this next. In this case, at present it is at the end of the day. The situation between the minister of the marine emissary and the environment is reflected in their passing on questions about these matters almost like hot potatoes; there have been some in this ideal period. Isn't it in the hands of the council, Mr. President, to simply relieve them of this stand? Now the situation is that whales are lying down; they have now ceased in the world of great proportions. The foundation of the operation seems to be the same as nobody, so whaling is virtually no longer practiced in this country and sells it on a list so that all the evidence would recommend it, whether it is the report under the bill, international commitments, the principles of the environmental court, or just the opinion of the minister who carries the matter with this shadow, to bring these species under the animal law, not as the next step, but as this step. Therefore, I am strongly directed to the Environment and Transport Committee to correct the problem of another fine bill of the Minister and not to allow political tension within the government, any decision at the government table, to create a calmness in the affairs of marine mammals, not to dictate the grammatical arguments that all sea mammals are at home in these wild beasts. So I direct the environment and transport committee to remedy this, to put whales and seals into wild law.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u77	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis on a national protection and energy-efficient strategy. According to Article 3. legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 48/2011, or the daily program referred to, shall be submitted to the General proposal for a synonym for a national protection and energy efficiency programme. The programme shall, in accordance with the objectives of the above-mentioned legislation, evaluate the national protection and energy efficiency, and the economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. The proposal I recommend here is the final point at work at the 3rd point of the Framework Programme, which began in 2013 and was returned to the current Environment and Resource Minister in 2016. It is important to remind you that this is the first time that work on a frame plan is carried out in accordance with current national protection and energy protection laws, but it did not take full effect until 2013. I have, having agreed with the Minister of Energy as expected by the law, review the proposals of a project administration, and now submit them here at the General Assembly. This is the third time the same proposal is proposed to the General Assembly, which suggests the classification of 82 activation options for a protection party, a novelty party, or a waiting party. A Ramma plan is a very important means of managing large and often difficult issues that have caused great controversy in our community. Without it, there would be no overall assessment of any available activations in the context of the whole country. I believe the tool framework is important in preparing a decision-making process based on professional employment and criteria. A Framework Programme covers land areas and activation options that the project management of the programme has discussed and has installed a power supply of 10 MW or more, or installed heat forces 50 MW or more. The strategy on energy initiatives requested by energy companies to have the evaluation and also the benefits that Energy Agency has requested to be evaluated. A respectable president. As stated in the law of No. In fact, 48/2011 a project manager introduced his proposal and gave the institutions, the public, and the stakeholders a chance to give reviews of the facts. As a result of the review process, the project management carried out its proposal for the classification of activation options that went into legal consultations of 12 weeks. In the second consultation process, the project management received data from a total of 44 sources. I find it important to note that not one source of subsidiary but, rather, a number of conflicting opinions, protection, and energy efficiency are involved. This is important in keeping matters in mind. The final proposal of the task management to the minister was unanimous with the exception of the priming option Hallow wound activation at Atley, where two representatives of the project were returned a special mask. I present the motions unchanged, as expressed by the project management, the coverage of the Generals. According to a report of the work programme, the environmental assessment of the programme was conducted along with the development of the programme. I'm not going to review rational support for the classification of each activation option. Rather, I'm going to refer to a report of the Project Management Board, specifically chapter 9.3 on page 20. 165. A respectable president. I would like to reiterate the importance of a framework for government decision-making of great interests and issues that have caused great conflict in our community. It is urgent that we do not lose sight of the fact that a structured program is designed to provide key lines to the government's plans for energy protection and efficiency. So it should provide a complete picture, but it should not go to the point of having too detailed analysis of smaller issues. I'd like to mention that the suggestion I recommend here is in the same time as it's an ambitious strategy of protection. At the same time, it does not suggest the classification of many new energy options, as well as the potential for other initiatives. Thus, it compares economic, social, and environmental impacts. Available proposals include the possibility of more than 1,400 MW energy forces if all of them were to be attacked by energy efficiency class. As a comparison, I would like to point out that the installed power of all the current fortresses in Iceland is about 2,500 MW. At the same time, many important areas will be provided for protection. In addition, there is a large waiting group in which you can find priming options suggested to be considered better in the future. Finally, I'd like to discuss only the link between framework and bill to law on a highland park I've recommended before. That bill suggests that the defined perimeters of a highland park will be defined because of energy efficiency within the country where the park takes place. These areas are not part of the peace-installed territory. The activation options defined in the current proposal and found within the proposed highland park will continue to be discussed by a project administration, which will provide suggestions on whether they fall into a protection party or a colony. If they eventually fall into a colony, that region will be defined as the perimeter of the park. Thus, the establishment of a highland park will not prevent them from developing a waiting category in the third part of the framework program, which falls within the range the park will reach, the final project management and later the General Assembly. However, it is not expected that further activation ideas could be developed within a highland park as well as with more strict limits, in the management of the project, e.g. to direct new energy options into existing areas of damage. A respectable president. I have now traced the main points of this council resolution and suggest that it be followed by a previous discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u78	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister said that he had reviewed the proposals of a project administration since 2016. Therefore, I would like to ask you if the forwarding of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, then the Environment Minister of the Agency, is the highest quality stamp. Minister of the procedure during the ideal period, which the Minister must know was defective. The request was to guess one year by starting the process because the previous environmental minister of the government did not want to initiate it. The professional groups then started late, had little time, so the process was to take about four years to work, a year and a half to two. In 12 weeks of consultation with the public, the task management gave its proposal to minister on 26 August 2016. On September 1, that minister had crossed all possible surfaces on this matter and gave the proposal to the council. Every man sees that there wasn't any public interest. After reviewing the proposals of project management and the whole process, do ministers think that the spirit of the law was respected in 2016 and thus in the contribution he stands for? Does a minister believe that the Spirit of the Frustration Convention was respected, that the second support of the Public entry was respected by the public's comment process was given just a moment to float past the minister's eyes at that time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The Senator asks for a quality label for Project 3 phaser and the expected professional groups. First, I want to say that I think that a great deal of things have been learned and won in the activities of Project 3 step-by-line frame management, especially that a particular work involved in social and economic factors, and that the work on the assessment of the protection value of the costs, the interaction of tourism and other innovations has developed and is very successful. There may be a number of criticisms in the treatment of the case. Hv. A senator briefly mentions that the previous secretary has taken up the task of reviewing the plan. But I think that's what. A member of the Ministry and even the Ministry of Environment and Resources is fully aware that work like this can be reviewed before entering the Ministry, because all of this is now open to the public. So I'm just assuming that, even though I haven't asked for it, it was done at the Environment and Resource Ministry. I think Project Three Programs did a very good job. We can agree or disagree about some outstanding priming ideas and where they end up in the order that eventually comes. There are many reasons why we feel that something should not be protected or that something should not be used. But I think the project management did it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u80	A respectable president. The minister says that much has been learned, especially about the economic and social factors, how to evaluate them, but the two trade groups did not return to the 3rd Work Programme management because of lack of time. Well, things have been learned, but why aren't they fixed? Why is this suggested after the distorted process that a minister says had to learn from? Here's a faulty suggestion. It was defective in 2016. It was an opportunity to fix it over the next four years. Why was that not a new opportunity? And speaking of the past, many have changed since Sigrún Magnúsdóttir ignored public consultation and made this suggestion. There have been changes in nature's protection, tourism, and society. Counts Minister, e.g. For all that has been learned about the evaluation of the social effects of the inducers, is it based on the suggestion to activate all decks, as he does here, where the social factors are clear what has never been properly evaluated? How does the minister feel about suggesting to activate the Whale River, which I remember no better than that the Minister's platoon rejoiced that it was canceled in the last year? And what about the highlands? I don't think the term "darkening area" conveys the adequate environment of the 15 activation options offered by the minister to be attacked in the perimeter of a highland park. Yes, there are isolated areas on the edge of the park, but such areas as the Highlands andlasties are in the heart of the highlands. [[The president calls.]] In view of the decision that has been made, and here is a bill on a highland park, shouldn't this crap have been revised by 15 people in the highland?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u81	V.E.G. President. I just want to answer the question about why I decided not to make any changes in this plan before making the offer. I carefully considered whether there was any reason to expand the waiting party and especially at the expense of a energy push group, because I'm now just on that side of my life. But my conclusion was simply that I believe that it is important for the council to receive this plan in the way the project management gave it. Possible changes to be made at the council, e.g. If the general council agreed to expand a waiting party or such, there would be something to be done here, where there is a group of people chosen by the nation to make decisions as big as these. So I think it's wise to put in the professional food that came out there. I'm just gonna have to answer it for a second. A senator refers to the fortresses in the highlands. If the senator reads the bill, he must be aware that there is a system that is fighting it and drawing a line into the sand when it comes to the level of energy. It says: We are not going to think of any more than we have already seen. And those already mentioned will submit to certain guidelines, including those that have been shown. to direct the possible new activation into areas that are already damaged. I've said many times that if I was determined, I wouldn't want to see any more of the fortresses in Iceland's highlands. But I have come here to the viewpoints of a lot of people in the bill I spoke for Christmas on a highland park. I think it's a good thing to do that in the way it was done, to draw out how the process will go ahead, and in what way we can expect these issues to continue in the highlands of Iceland, which is, yes, so I remind myself of it, one of our most precious natural bulbs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u82	Mr. President. This is an exciting discussion, and I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to the point that we have a policy of noncarbonization in the country of 2040. We've set energy policy to 2050, we're talking a frame plan and we're dealing with a highland park. One of the things I want to ask the highest. Ministers on turning to wind and how to the highest. When all of this is connected, a minister thinks of her as being part of the world. During a discussion about energy policy, we talked a lot about the main transport systems of electricity. My emphasis there was the wind power and competitiveness of Iceland. Who wants the highest. Ministers are going on about the use of wind power? In connection with a frame plan presented here, there is one source of wind energy in the Neon class and one waiting class. Since then, there have been many suggestions on future employment. But most of all, I'd like to get this out of the wind. We have also seen that unless wind power power sources are to be allowed or produced by wind power in the peripheral regions of a highland park, there will be few fines when it comes to using these assets that could maximise the energy system and greatly improve the efficiency of the overall system through the built-up, more efficient electrical transport systems. That's where the wind would come in. This is what I want to start by asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm going to bring in a bill about changing the law on a frame plan right now at the spring Summit that deals specifically with the wind. The wind's about a lot of special things because at least here in Iceland it's not local, it's everywhere. This makes it different from any local geothermal and water supply. I believe that we should be able to approach the trial in a simpler way for wind power at the same time as we create clear guidelines on the type of territory that we are not going to use the wind power. For example, consider a peace - related territory or something. In other areas, we will determine where it would be desirable, or justifiable, if we can say so, from a protection point of view to attacking the wind. It would then be the task management program to evaluate such areas individually, so that we have set out the country for wind power. Then there would be some area that would not be in a restricted area, if we could call them, or territory, that needs to be examined and that would be merely a rule of action under permission and so on. I hope that the bill of this subject will begin next week. Then I just want to say that I think that we have to look to the wind energy as part of what we're doing about energy efficiency, and especially if it can cause other sensitive areas to be relieved. We could also make sure that, in the future, we are even looking at winds of energy at sea, as has become more common abroad. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u84	Mr. President. The person standing here sees wind as one of the most powerful factors in the future and the tremendous potential for producing electricity here, of course, in the country by water and geothermal. It is a pleasure to be working on these matters. But I have felt that this work was too slow and that it could have been done faster because, when you look at the picture, you can see these tremendous benefits. The nation's electrical system may have 75% use today. This could be used, e.g. extends with wind and then the transport system, as I entered. What the person here wishes to have more information on from the highest level. Ministers are his opinion of wind energy as such and the possibilities involved and then the effects of these perimeters. Based on the maps I've looked at, it seems to me that there has been a considerable decrease in the potential in the wind, such as a good and powerful dam where such wind power can be preferred. How's it treated? We may also have tremendous advantages in the wind. The use of wind power production here and windmills shows that the absolute use of wind production is at about 50% of the world's level, while it is about 28% worldwide. So, with little intervention and good connection to ligands, this may be very desirable. I think we have to look very hard to improve our country's competitiveness in this, and I'm asking if it's the highest. Minister is on the same line with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u85	V.E.G. President. I believe that wind power is clearly a energy source that we should look to as it is being done, both in the Senate and also in the adjustment of the law that I preached before. I think it's very important that we take care of this energy efficiency, like others, and that we look at its environmental impact. It may be mainly visual, it may also be a serious influence on a bird's road, or it may be some kind of fragile habitat. It's all something I think it's wise that we make a special frame around, as I described earlier. We have an area where we don't go on with this energy efficiency, we have other areas where we can see if such efficiency is actually possible and simple, the rule of action around it, I think it's probably a case, and third, there are areas that need no more than an assessment of environmental impact, and that go through the license process and organizational procedures that are generally involved in these activities. I think that there are certainly opportunities in the wind, I agree with the senator, but I'm just saying in general that for Iceland's tourist country, we need to be careful about this, like other massive uses of energy resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u86	A respectable president. I used to sit at a time when I was in trouble. The General Industrial Committee for the sentence of the laws dealing with a frame plan. I sat there with a bang. Councilmen of Kristján Möller, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Magnús Orri Schramur, Þráinn Bertelsson, Sigmundur Örn Rúnarsson, Tryggvadóttir Trygvadótir, Bragi Sveinsson, and Tryggvi Þór Herbertsson. In short, this group had a cross-spectical discussion of the legislation on the Framework Programme. It was all classes that supported these laws and felt that they had reached quite a milestone. On the contrary, we shook hands and pretended that we had done good work at what they did. A industrial committee. The result was a law, but it has been a disaster story since then, unfortunately. The schedule should be reviewed every four years. It was last approved in 2013. So it's going to be eight years. Since then, the Congress has not been able to produce a whole frame of life. True, the matter has been discussed, spending many hours in the council, having enormous differences, we thought we had been completely fenced up at the time and had no need to arise. It was that simple to us now. I'm one of those people who believes that the framework program now being submitted is not going to pass these laws. The question, then, is whether the council will correct it or will look through the finger of payment that a minister does not fulfill the law by presenting the matter in the manner presented here. The Committee of Industrial Commission of the period that discussed this matter is presented in the section on the purpose of the law: With the bill it is aimed at setting up for the first time a pan-European legislation on the use of hydropowers and terrestrials and explaining the position it should have to have with the government in the preparation of the planning and granting of public permits, including research, innovation and activation. It's about the use of hydropowers and geothermals. Then it was clearly not the understanding of the Council, the Lawgiver, that wind power should have something to do with this, and it has not been decided or discussed on the scene of the council. In two places in the Commission, the reasons for what the professionals should consider are given. In the energy generation section, it says that from sources of information, there are observations that would bend to the time of activation into the energy generation. It says: In this regard the EEA suggests that in the field of four task force groups, costs and benefits are produced, the combined effects of activation and social benefits were assessed taking into account environmental costs, as shown by the four field of professional groups: I. Naturalism and culture, II. Extremity, tourism and benets, III. Economic and social effects of the inducers, IV. Their activation and practicality. All of these factors are addressed in decision-making. The exact list is then repeated in the section of the Committee that discusses the work of the professional groups. This work has not been accomplished. It's too far to trace it, a respectable president, why it is, but it's a fact. So I think it's totally unmistakably clear that we don't have the evidence that the Lawgiver assumed when the law was placed to work this case with some sense of reason. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned earlier that things had changed since the law was given, and that's exactly right. It's changed a lot in our society, but the law hasn't changed. There have been no proposed changes in these laws, although I have often called for it and thought that this work would have to be done. Of course, the extreme is critical. A minister should come here and offer suggestions ready a few years ago, the habit, and they appear unchanged. It's very time to make some changes in the framework laws. For example, one vital factor is that we keep in mind the current and future discussion of these matters, which is national security. The delivery security of electricity is something that limits the security of all nations. If the law is being passed at the time, it could be said that we've completely overlooked these factors. For example, since then, we have been exposed to bulldozers, volcanic eruptions, and scenarios that have been drawn after the huge events, and the possibilities we face tell us that it is very dangerous and must be considered what the nation's energy supply is in a limited area of the country. This is something we need to examine. This is something to take into account when evaluating activation options. Then, looking at the classes that are in this council resolution, a respectable president, we are the same hay-horn. In the colony, all true activations in the Smokey Peninsula and in the Þjórður are linked to it, i.e. Water supply options and high temperature areas. It can hardly be said that there will be anywhere else in the country. Insecting was mentioned here, which continues to be part of the new system. That was very pointed to at the time when it was the highest. The environmental minister of the former, Siggi Svavarsdóttir, suggested that Inuking into a colony, a single water - power activation option at that time. It was held very well with us who wanted to gain additional advantages that we had one water source to work out. We should have finished it before we went to ask for more water sources. Of course, he was only there for political purposes, simply to be able to point him out. No one ever thought there would be anyone who wanted to activate that option. Implementation is a third of the most inefficient initiatives we have ever had in water from all the priming options that have been considered. There are many other options I think far better to look at than that of the whalering. A respectable president. The opportunity lies in our midst of the energy. We now need to replace Icelandic society, value creation, and employment. We need to do this on the basis of the environment, on the basis of climaterelated factors, and the energy can play a very important role there - food production, data being industry, hydrogen production, real energy production for exporting as Dans is going to double his electricity production over the next 30 years. The chance is there. I'm not sure we want the travel service to be much bigger than it was before the Covid epidemic, although, certainly, you want to see it snap and it's gonna be a big part of our society. This is important, and the experiences of the past year have taught us that we need to grow the eggs in the basket. There's something we've got, to hold on, that's the continuum transfunctioner, that's the power. We have opportunities beyond those nations, when it comes to these factors, and the nation's interests and future generations are enormous. [[The president calls.]] We can build a welfare community on the basis of what we have more than any other nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u87	President. It's always interesting to listen to what's happened. A senator will discuss these matters because, as he did well, he has been talking about matters related to activation or frame plan for a long time and knows the story. So there are a number of things to do when conversations occur. A senator on these matters. But there's one thing I'm gonna stop at each of the talks. A senator, the most serious charge. A minister is violating the law by suing this matter. I am old as in grass, and my memory in many things is failing; but if I have not broken off, there was no crack. A senator of the last government who made this very issue clear. I think that's why. A member of Parliament owes a statement that he himself has participated in the violation of the law in that government by presenting this case, if at all possible. Senator. Or it matters whether or not. A senator who serves as a member of the government, or is he a private senator? It's not something you throw into the air to talk about the crime of other people. I think that's why. A senator must have made a clean face and the government in which he once sat, since it must also have committed a legal offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u88	A respectable president. To me, it is quite certain that the law has not been fulfilled with the work that has been prepared for this matter. Men, as I said before, must make a distinction as to whether the law is being violated by its contributions or whether the council is going to look through their fingers and deal with it in this way. The same thing happened in the 2017 government. The same thing happened at the highest. the current environmental minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, in the ultimatum of 2013-2016. This is just the situation. I've been saying all along that work is not satisfying. This was shown by others earlier. A senator said that a very short time had been given for work on committees. However, the group of people who in my opinion consider what is just as important as any of these items were appointed much later than the others, i.e. When it comes to the cost and effect of it. It is quite possible that such an assessment of activations is of utmost importance because it is at least what controls the competitiveness of the country in the future's construction of valuables and businesses, that we are not looking for the cost of the challenge of Achile reactivation, which is one of the most inexorable initiatives in the country, i.e. per capita is far more expensive than from a number of other factors that have much less environmental impact than this activation. This too must be fundamental if we are to make these decisions. [[The president calls.]] In my opinion, the law has not been fulfilled in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u89	President. I'm making a clear distinction between the importance of activation and the need for activation and energy efficiency, lack of energy or what it is, and the level of criminal charges against people. I remind you, Mr President, this case is being submitted in cooperation with the Department of Employment and Development. Almost that charge. A senator also goes to that minister? Got it. A senator, since he has always claimed this, in advance of the case in the case of the government of 2016-2017? Did he make it a matter of government that he believed he was participating in a legal offense when the case was presented? President. Let's discuss the issues involved, what we believe is right and wrong in operations, the protection, how we should deal with the results of a project plan, the process we've started. Emphasize what we believe is lacking and need to take a closer look if something is like that. Let's take the position of both advisers as to whether this is not all by the letter of the law. But try to stay in that place, not to take so much into public discussion that the charges of law are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u90	V.E.G. President. I'm just going as far as I like to, and I'm not going anywhere. I have the whole time--with all these Ministers, with all these discussions in this matter that I have participated in in in these years, when I sat in the government with a minister who submitted this, and already the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is in my category, but this is in agreement with it, with the highest level. Environment Minister, in official coverage here at the council and in the media - maintained this matter, this important point. It's going to be quite interesting, a respectable president, to take the conversation. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, who is with me on the Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, needs to be evaluated. Maybe we'll just get into calling what. Councilmen from the Committee to us as guests in this matter to review only the question of who was, what the attorney's will was, when we covered this important matter across all the classes they were attending - what the thought was, and whether they believe that the procedure in these matters has been carried out has continued well since then and in the spirit of the laws that were accepted there. Of course, that's what it's all about. This important issue has become a grapple, and it is globally dangerous to think that this is the case, that we have not met together on the contrary, as we take into account all these important issues of environmental and nature protection, tourism and the various sectors and use of this resource for building a community in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u91	A respectable president. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme, a proposal from the Environment and Resource Minister, and thank you very much. Secretary of the story. The proposal suggests that the government will be assigned to implement a national programme for the protection and energy use of certain areas, or a frame plan. If this proposal is adopted, which is the third stage of a frame plan, it replaces a 2013 agreed program and then added by a change in 2015. The programme is aimed at ensuring that national protection, protection of cultural minorities, taking into account the efficiency and interest of different national and national applications, as well as their interest in the same benefits, the same benefits as sustainable development. The programme shall therefore evaluate the protection and energy efficiency values of land and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection that may be the only option for national use. In the motion itself, 82 energy efficiency initiatives are presented for energy generation, waiting party and protection party. Within each category, energy advantages are stratified by water fields, high - temperature areas, or by the activation of wind energy. But in spite of the noble goals, as I have described above, over the years, the methods we use in the evaluation of energy resources have not been resolved and the reconciliation has not been achieved within or outside the council. I'd like to be happy, though, that for the first time, we're still with the third phase of a frame plan for a discussion and payment here at the General Assembly, certainly not for the first time, but it gives us a chance to make things better. The forwarding party was acting out in advance of the case for the Generals, and I'm going to give them a heads-up here. He reads: The 'Ramma programme is an important tool for assessing activation options. There is evidence that there has been criticism of the treatment of the third phase of the framework for evaluating groups 3 and 4 not being part of the assessment procedure. In addition, there is criticism of the methodology of migrating land areas that receive a peaceful description of energy efficiency following the decision that activation options will become a protection party. It is then important to further explain the interaction of national planning policies, environmental assessment and framelines to the assessment and selection of wind power options. The Agency's Group highlights the importance of working with these issues specifically in the work of the environment and transport committee on the case. At that time, the Parliament's group warns that in the case of the General Assembly it will be considered to increase the costs of a waiting party and that the implementation of the third stipulation program will not be in any way committed to reducing national parks in the highlands. Then I've finished giving an advance notice of the Agency's party. As I said before, in spite of noble goals, it has been difficult to resolve the methods we use in achieving energy benefits. Thus, suspicion to the conclusion remains wide and wide in the community. I therefore think that the General will not be able to overlook this suspicion, and as the leading members of the Parliament demonstrate, a follow-up discussion of the proposal itself, a programme for protection and energy use of land areas, to process the proposal on its way to the General Assembly and development of the follow-up, i.e. Work to protect those who go to a reservation and to protect them. The nature of the activation of wind energy has then been shown to be significantly different from other energy sources, since the wind is not local, and it is therefore not ideal to have a discussion of the wind energy efficiency in exactly the same process as the discussion of water activation and hyperthermia. That's why I'm celebrating the ultimate. In the discussion earlier, a minister proclaimed that there was a bill coming to explain that subject. I'm on a transport and environment committee and there this case will be discussed. I expect the committee will act vigorously on this project, for I feel that it is very important for the General to resolve this proposal in some way and to contribute together to a better understanding of the future process.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u92	Mr. President. With this earlier discussion, I would like to talk about the matter in a general way. As a result, this discussion will likely point to what. Environment and Transport Committees and a lot of work ahead. The remaining discussion has been of great interest. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for History. My partner's speech on the environment and transportation committee, Jón Gunnarsson's son, was excellent for many of the reasons and the answers of my partner from an environmental and transport committee, why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttar's son Proppér, as well as the conversation that took place between the two senators, underscores the complexity of this issue. No doubt the explanation is that we are here in 2021 discussing the proposal for a frame plan, but the current proposal was adopted on January 14, 2013. In long chapters, it has been a sad story to observe the enormously sophisticated mechanisms of energy activation and related tasks, to put it this way, and to those in charge of those tasks, whether it's public or private. We have made a rule of order in a way that makes us feel very uncomfortable to get along with the advantages that seemed acceptable at some point, and it is even worse with the benefits of what are so called a waiting party and for further consideration. It is proper to remind you in this context of each song or stroke when the Helgi's activation began. But it was an advantage that had been in a novelty class, at least from the time when the current programme was adopted in January 2013. From this form as the frame plan I think we must find some reasonable way. It was an interesting Christmas address on the head of the energy Department that now called on that job for the year, his Christmas business that appeared on the website of the Power Institute in December. I'd like to go to one of the points in that address, where it's the heading for the box, to be printed. There, the former energy manager reviews the process and history of this approach that is designed to cover. By permission of the President, the energy editor says: I think we need to realize that all this process has become a long, difficult dream or a nightmare. [...] A simple way is to put down a framework plan and support the organisations involved in environmental and organizational matters in order to assess potential planning initiatives. These are words from a man who has a lot of experience in this environment, and I think these are words that we senators have at least to consider, whether this is a way that makes sense to try to regain the peace that the Council thought they had obtained from the law of No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. To close this section from the Christmas address of the Department of Energy, that's where the President's permission is: In fact, a timeless statement is severely impaired by the right of future generations to make democratic decisions on their own matters at any given time. And because of what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé is here in the hall listening to a spiritized sound, and I know that there is a process of reexamination of the environment law. How interesting it will be to see how that work goes forth and what its outcome will be! Then I come to the context of the parts that I think are important in all of this. Prior to a New Year's season, a bill on a highland park was measured, and in this, potential energy efficiency is of enormous importance. So I held on to it and pointed it out, and had done it before, that I thought it would be unacceptable that a highland park would be discussed without the introduction and approval of the program. Now she is in position and will be referred to the committee after this discussion, and it seems to me that if something is present, instead of approaching a solution that keeps pushing matters, it will get complicated. It will be interesting to see if this work is caused by it. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Mr. Ottar's son Proppér, on review of the book, may be the key to leading this issue of global approach. Of course, this cannot be so that potential energy efficiency in the protection part of the programme must never be mentioned again, but the benefits of innovation will be expressed in red death when it comes to carrying out plans. We cannot, especially when looking at the extra energy demand in this country, leave the regular work in such a way. I just want to reiterate here that there's a lot of work and, of course, a lot of interesting work ahead of us on the environment and transport committee, but we have to allow ourselves to look into this thing with our eyes wide open, which are the best ways to ensure electronic security and that the Icelandic community and production at home can grow and grow and grow stronger. We will not be in the position of needing to be assigned, so to speak, when, as it were, the production of energy, which is used by some of the major industrial companies that are operating here, certain groups are overrun with their joys all over the world, hoping that some major industry will fall off the train and up the hatches. That's not a good way. There are so many things that are not a good way to ensure long - term energy supply. We must be able to produce the energy necessary for economic prosperity in this country, and there we must look for much longer than one or two terms of terms. With these words, I'd like to contribute this matter to the environment and transport committee, where I look forward to discussing it, including with a base. paritaprevir The Independence Party, Jón Gunnarsson's son, who spoke earlier, and Kolbeinn Óttarsson's son, Ottar's son Proppér, a left - green man, who came back earlier and I expect him to say something before this discussion is over. I repeat, we need to watch the big movie. We cannot be allowed in the big film to close in the long run on energy efficiency options that can become so important to us and so essential to future generations to maintain prosperity, the building of all the systems of which commercial wealth exists, whether it is the health or the education system. From that moment on, we're supposed to be getting closer to this. We're not supposed to get this out of some narrow system of things, without me putting the environmental principles under it, not at all. But we have to be able to form a system and approach where you can get ahead with the projects you plan to establish.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u93	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of the story here and this very interesting discussion, as noted in the case. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason, I agree. I also found it very interesting to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son when he said the government broke the law. How interesting it is to hear from a member of the administrative body! If we look at the methodology in a frame plan, now that all work on a frame plan aims to one degree, to classify activation options for energy efficiency, waiting, or protection party. Activation is defined as a procedure to enable a particular source of energy, such as we know, the hydropower, the earth's heat and the wind, to a certain location. To some extent, this methodology is a constant development and adjustment, as it were. The strategy for the protection and efficiency of land areas rests on the ideological basis for sustainable development. The main concepts and science that are relevant to professional work are discussed on the website frame. Since a frame plan is to accept different viewpoints, it is important to look at things as broad as possible - I think everyone agrees - and we need knowledge from a number of sciences and sciences. This is part of what is mentioned on the website box. What is sustainable? Yes, for a long time, sustainability was defined as a development that meets the needs of the season without reducing the potential of future generations to meet their needs. Here, it might be said that the integration of a region reduces the potential for future generations to meet its needs. The concept of sustainable development has been defined in a larger sense, and with a clear understanding of sustainability, it stresses that the economy and society are part of a closed system and growth cannot go beyond the ultimate limits that nature imposes on us. Resources are limited, and the ability of the environment to sustain life - sustaining processes is therefore easily disturbed. This is a challenge, of course. However, as we examine the objectives of a policy framework and the assessment of environmental impacts, it is clear that the only real difference in goals is in the word "long - term," which is used on the box. So Rammanum is intended to be a site for long-term decisions taken, i.e. The policies. This may not be, and then the question is, Who should make these decisions? Then there are the experts in Reykjavík and Ministers. These laws are intended solely to accept this constitutiond authority of the local community to represent themselves, of them. It's just that it has to say it right now and it doesn't look any different. If we look at 7th paragraph. the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme says: ▪ Work and energy efficiency programmes are binding to the development of planning plans. Agricultural governments should agree with the current regional, primary and shared strategist plans for the protection and energy efficiency programme within four years of its approval. This, in effect, is the organizational authority of the local community in Reykjavík. If we look at 1st paragraph. this song says: The aim of these laws is to ensure that the use of regions for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments, which take into account nature's protection and cultural memory, economic efficiency and profitation of different resources and national values, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable progress. Then if we look at a law on environmental impact assessments, from 2000 it says: ▪ The aim of these tracks is: a. to ensure that prior to granting a permit for implementation, which may be due to location, the nature or scope of its activities, the environmental impact of the Agency has been evaluated, b. to minimise negative environmental impacts carried out, c. to contribute to the cooperation of those involved in taking care of or being concerned with the activities that meet the requirements of these laws, d. to introduce to the public the environmental impact of projects that depend on the laws of these and counterweight measures and allow the public to comment and information before the Commission's opinion on the assessment of environmental impact is realized. Thus, the Ramma plan is not about protecting nature - the assessment of environmental impacts does - but only that so - called experts have the authority to determine when and so on has been activated. The question must be: If a frame plan is about nature protection, what is it then that is not working in the law on environmental impact assessments? That's never been answered. It is possible that assessments of environmental impacts are only advisable for rural governments. So it's just a frame plan that can get them started. At the top of this, there is no need for the number of times this process takes, over a period of time, causing problems and creating business barriers that big companies prefer to have, of course, the amount of money to cover, the widest of government companies. I believe, Mr. President, that the law is not only a means to be found in the rural areas but to all smaller companies who want to build their livelihood on energy production and, of course, also on this administrative rights, and I think it is wise to settle this process and only to maintain a law on environmental impact assessments and to correct what is needed in those areas. This is my introduction to this discussion. I believe that the laws on environmental assessment have proved their value well and this process, which has been established by a frame plan, may be just to complicate things and delay them, which, for example, may bring a substantial expense to those who intend to use resources in their country. I hope this case has a good and thorough discussion on the work of the Commission that lies ahead. Of course, this is a very important matter, we all know it, and about the future and the national energy security and conditions in our oppressive land.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u94	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to have a place to talk to him about one of her parts that I find interesting. I'd like to discuss some details on how this strategy violates local planning. It is a matter that has recently been a great deal in the discussion, and it surprised me a little bit how loud this discussion has become, how many have spoken about it very loud now - I especially associate it with a discussion of a highland park - and perhaps people who so far have not spoken about that matter, even though the Council has been accepting the law that similarly violates that authority. So I want to ask you why. A senator: Does he feel that the same thing about a system plan? An electronic law says, with the permission of a president: The next review of the main structure, and no later than four years from the agreed strategy, is being carried out to coordinate strategy for projects in a confirmed 10 year schedule. In other words, Landsnet's system plan goes up and up against the community planning. Now I can't understand why. A senator is different, so that I use his own word, but it's about to be taken to Reykjavík. A lot. So a senator is fighting that the planning for the Landsnet system will be reassigned to the countryside, and some communities can say no to the line-up that the Landsnet has planned? If it's not. A senator has come into complete contradiction with himself, and I know that. A senator won't do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Like what? A senator mentioned that I believe that the environmental assessment laws have proved themselves quite well. We're just supposed to fix them up, fix the flaws that men think are on them, make them work. But I believe with this language, with this matter, it's a complicated matter. Hv. A senator mentioned lines and such. I don't know any better than the rurals have to grant implementation licenses for the lineworks. Well, that's the way it is, isn't it? We know that, for example. Here with the sea, with a case in the South's line layers, and a boat has passed. There I find that when it comes to the line layers, the government's most crystal-glorious policy of working with them is continuing without discussing matters with the locals, but it really is important that we make peace with them. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would agree with me in that. Hv. A senator mentioned a system plan that is not discussed here, but I just want to say that I think it's perfectly normal to communicate with the communities. Why has e.g. Unable to achieve contracts for the new legislation to the Southnes for about seven years, why. Senator? This is because there has been no civil agreement on the part of the government, and the government has been reinvestled by property and so forth, simply because of a smoothness of work, and the situation is still fixed. At the same time, the Southnesian energy security is lacking. [[The president calls.]] It is urgent to make things right, and we saw it especially in connection with the earthquakes or earthquakes that occurred last year, and of course are concerned, that if the primary line went out, there is not enough reserve reserve for the Southnes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u96	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u97	President. Rather, I found the answers to my direct questions in response to some of them. Senator. We all agree that there has to be a good consultation with rural society, of course, but that's not what I was asking. I was asking about them quite bluntly. A senator saying that with a frame plan, they would be taking the planning from their communities and moving it south to Reykjavík. I was asking who. A senator's opinion is that the same applies to a system plan, since it makes it clear that it is beyond the development of rural society, that the communities should adapt their plans to a system plan. The reason I ask, Mr. President, is the discussion, especially in these last days, weeks and months, where I have felt that I was guarding the dune skin in the hearing of the Governing Body's knight at home in the province. They cannot be social parties to themselves if they struggle to see the structure of the rural society respected when it comes to a frame plan or national park rather than to be respected when it comes to a system plan. To me, President, it's impossible to say, if these same people want the planning back to the district when it comes to activation or national parks, but to want them back in the district when it comes to the linework, because otherwise people are contradicting themselves. That's why I'm asking. A senator: Does he believe that he is? Does he think that the organizational authority of the rural community in the process of linework is also higher than a system plan, as he believes their planning is higher when it comes to a frame plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u98	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, a system plan is very important and it targets the national energy security. It would cause a measure of confusion if all rural areas were to have a decision on that subject. It needs to be controlled by a measure of control, I think everyone will realize that. My presentation has simply been that it lacks cooperation on the part of the public with the local community. That matter is crystal crystal clear in the case mentioned here on the Southnes as well. A senator knows and should put himself in a good position because he has decided to volunteer in the next election in the South Sea. I congratulate him on the offer, but I think he'll have to realize that there's a very large factor, in terms of the Southnes, that this case will be solved. I'm sorry, the government hasn't succeeded. This case has been fixed for seven years, and it may crystallize what I said, that there's no consultation. I think it's a little far past what's going. A senator linking this matter with a plan, which is not what we're discussing here. But I got it. A member in particular to look at these matters because he mentioned them, a system plan and line-ups, and especially in Southnes. Perhaps he will be the senator who can solve this case with the Southnes, that these laws that the government has failed to perform or accept with the local community - which is extremely sad because energy supply safety on Southnes is at stake, as we all know. If this was to be the case, the earth would be stirred up, and line lines would break, such as. In Black Forks, this area would be largely out of energy. [[The president calls.]] There must be a line that carries the full amount needed for Southnes, but it is not present today.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u99	Mr. President. She's persistent, the debate over a frame plan, and she's even tough, too, not just persistent. I'm just gonna come in on other things. I'm not going to talk about energy options or the handling of a frame plan. I'm just going to go on the basics, or part of them, which are the energy productions both now and beyond, and then the energy consumption, because it's all playing together. The figures I'm using here are about the degree of measurement, not very accurate numbers of megawatts. It's easier to keep track of things like this. I'm trying to submit a diagnosis of status and prospects. It now appears through electricity production that some 2,700 MWs are being produced. A variety of methods of transport, mainly improved transport, and perhaps driving machines only hard in some places, can be added 200 to 300 MWs. This can then be added to a similar force, 200-300 MW, a form of additional production, and this occurs by increasing the flow of glaciers due to climate change and, in some cases, by changing the sheets in the turban that drive and produce electricity. In other words, it can be added about 400 to600 MW to the current system without actually building new activations or activateing them in new locations. It's a really good sledgehammer. It's a good thing to have in your back pocket. When it comes to using it, there are a number of factors. Transport energy exchanges include cars and equipment, airplanes and larger ships, boats, smaller trips, and the harbors themselves. Then there is something related to fuel production, we can call hydrogen fuel, although it usually produces electricity when it is used, as is alcohol and so on. It's a big bunch of megawatts, and now it depends on the time frame and how far we look at the number we put on it. However, according to our perspective on energy change, it is generally spoken of as 5003/4,1,000 MW, as well as the wide range of energy exchanges, e.g. if we are going to enter the harbors so that all large ships and even cruise vessels can use electricity there. That's it. It is possible to say, if we use what is available, that if we use corrupt energy and additional production, we could go up half the way to these higher numbers I just mentioned, 1,000 MWs. Then there is population growth and a smaller industry, that is in the so - called energy program from the Power Institute, and it is generally referred to as the year 2050 a few hundred megawatts, 400, 500, 600 according to what a person aims for. That adds to the number I've already spoken to. There is a measure of savings because, as you know, you can, especially in your household, save a considerable amount of electricity. This number has fallen in a way that, of course, is increasing to the rhythms of the population, with a variety of industry and innovations in progress. Then comes what we can call energy - consuming activities, data plants, and so forth. Of course, there are the metal plants and the diatom, or this one that is active, raw silk. It's a lot of energy, but it's a question of how this will develop in the future, if any of this lid, method of manufacture changes, etc. It really is a question mark whether or not there will be something out of megawatts. Let's just assume that it won't be in my case below. If we release this energy-rich activity and what we know to do, e.g. In large amounts of food production for export, that is also a big question mark, we are talking about a 900-1,500 MW that can be said to be missing into the system. That will be in the next decades. We resolve this by using a geologist. It is now, for example. continuing to have an increase in the amount of smokeynes activation. We use power of water and we use wind power. If I take a average number, it could be 1,200 MW. That's quite a bit, it's almost half of what's now produced in the country. It is likely that the wind will weigh heavily on this subject. There are many tasks or project options on the board, e.g. A Norwegian company that has eyes at ten locations in the country. If they were all new and there would be a wind power plant, it would be more than 2,000 MWs. You can see the magnitude of that. It is therefore possible to say in an escape that it is important to establish a link between the evolution process, i.e. the growth of wind power use here in Iceland. V.E.G. The environment and transport secretary only entered into it earlier in his language today as to how it might be done. When you add this together, I'm going to say that a word - I almost want to call it a swamp or a myth - that no more electricity production is needed for years in Iceland, is more than a little doubtful. In any case, whatever the case, the future will call for another 500, 1,000, 1,200, 1,300, 1,500 MWs in the coming decades. Whether we like it or not, we must recognize it and take appropriate action. We'll work it out in a practical way in green, sustainable way, in a careful way, in the balance of energy demand for each five-year period. This is so that energy supply is relatively time-consuming in preparation, building power plants, and so we always have to be a little ahead of energy requirements so that things don't get on the beach because we're late. Nevertheless, considerable demand for energy depends on the descriptions that humans want to use. In this process, energy security, which is of utmost importance in Iceland, as we all know, is caused by both energy - carrying activity, whether it is a metal plant or a data plant or anything that cannot be stopped. These are the projects and we're working them in the name of environmental protection, which must mean that we can balance energy production, energy consumption, and nature protection. That's the job ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u100	Mr. President. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution on a national protection and energy efficiency programme. Based on the strategy, it will be ensured that the innovation of the Member States will be based on long-term needs and the overall basis of interest assessments, which will take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and interest of different national and national resources, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable development as a guide. The schedule should be based on the No. 48/2011, assessments of national and economic, environmental and social impacts of innovation, including protection. The program suggests that energy efficiency groups seven sources of water, eight geological advantages, and one energy advantage. A waiting group has offered 23 water sources, 14 benefits in the use of geothermals, and one wind - power field. There are 18 water sources and eight geothermals. It is important to work in a frame plan that it is well integrated with other government policy-making policies in as many areas as possible and that at times there is a lack of such factors in various matters. In context of the frame plan, we are now talking about a highland park, we have just had energy policy to 2050, which was developed by the transverse committee of all political parties, and then we have talked here today of wind power and power. Environment Minister announced a bill in the consultation puzzle next week. All of this needs to be integrated in the long future. And if we take the Landsnet system and the main transport system of electricity, we're looking for perhaps 60, 70, 80 years of age in its structure, so this also needs to be considered for a long time. The main criticism of this strategy is a highly discussed factor on the work group 3 and 4, on the other hand, the social impact of the programme and the economic impact on the region. Of course, it is sad in all this process that perhaps the work of these two groups may not have had enough money to do. Those who worked in the groups showed that it was out of time. It is also sad that the past few years have not been better, that time that did not have been used to correct the problem of the program because much has been waiting for us to take this matter before the council. We also need to keep in mind, when discussing these matters, that the Icelandic government has the policy of becoming a non-carbon object in 2040 and that energy needs to be assured to achieve its goals. I think it's generally said there's a need for a total of 1,000-1,200 MW to achieve a level of carbon abstraction so that we can use domestic energy to drive things around the country, and it's most about to travel in the country. Maybe that's the third plan, third energy exchange. First it was the electricalisation of the country, and then when we began to warm up our houses with earth's heat, hot water; the third energy exchange is because of our cars and other transportation systems. If we put 1,000◯1,200 MW in the context of the power of activation in the country, the production or force is about 2,700,2800 MW today, about 2,000 in the hydropower and 700,700,800 in the geotherm. Thus, the total number of MWs is considerable. There's an increase in electricity production in the country, by means of a mental account, by the time we're dealing with a major project. We need to consider how we are going to achieve this and how important it is that this is integrated with other plans that may not have been developed at the time of this work. Then I want to point out in this context that the Icelandic electrical energy system is an archipelago, so I think it is important that an environmental and transport committee take it into their work in a frame plan. A report by the Prime Minister on wood and national security delivered at Congress on Monday, according to the request made to us independents in February of last year, states: Unlike other countries, unlike those in other parts of Europe, electricity transport systems are widely linked. Therefore, temporary loss of electricity in certain areas cannot be taken to import it. It is important to keep this in mind when we set the long-term energy sources in the country where we are going to produce the energy, i.e. that national power stations are well distributed as we look at the security of the whole country. We are strengthening the main transport system of electricity to correct this, but we need to also consider that mine knows the distribution of the power in the country is under way. With the permission of the president, I again quote a report by the prime minister on page 8. 7: The overall safety profile of the electronic energy system here is taken into account and it is dangerous to define the individual components of the electricity system, i.e. Electric transport, processing, distribution, national security, and others not. As such, the energy system in government policy has been specifically discussed in the public defense and security of the state. The effectiveness of all of these factors is essential to ensuring the delivery of electricity in the country. However, it cannot be overlooked that the electronic operating system has a unique position and is essential to ensuring the delivery of electricity. Failure to do so can affect any community wood, since all of them are dependent on electricity in some way. Then significantly reduced electricity to big users can have a very serious impact on the economy, where it can cause great financial damage to society and the company. It seems generally that the report, which arrived on Monday, refers to the main transport systems of electricity, the large transport system, the base of the grid, but I believe that all this work needs to examine the distribution of power centers of the country, also being examined in the large context. All the electronic issues in Iceland are of utmost importance to us. There is no greater energy produced on an individual in the world than in Iceland, and in the second place, in Norway, energy is produced twice as much per person as in Iceland. In all the economic context and the other context of the part, electricity generation, transport and its use in employment and to improve the quality of living and all that is involved, we are extremely important. So it's a big deal, and we're supposed to put a lot of work into it. I just want to reiterate right at the end of the line, based on security and national security, that I think it's very important to work at the time. The environment and transport programme will be considered to introduce these factors to energy, security and distribution of power stations across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u101	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I've been listening to the discussion on this matter, a proposal to come up with a resolution on a national protection and energy saving programme, from Environment and Resource Ministers. Men have made the matter quite clear, and I'm not going to add much to the material issues except perhaps to say that what I'm up to with electricity and electricity production is not new; I've been talking about how we should always be able to have enough electricity into the future. It is difficult to tell how much need is needed. We do not know what the future holds. Therefore, we need to be able to expect to have access to the activation tools and/or methods needed to produce electricity. I wanted to know that when I was listening to this discussion earlier, I felt the same way as when we were discussing a highland park a few years ago. Here come future Special Forces and Independence Company, I may not say the book, but with many magazines on the subject being delivered. This is the second case for the Environment Minister to move with forward-of-view executives and independent groups coming in advance. In fact, it even spoke crass. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson speaks of a lawbreaker in this case at the highest level. Environment Minister. You ask yourself, " How are cases handled in this government? ' If this is the government situation, how will the Minister set matters straight? Government officials arise one by one, talking about warnings and even illegalities. Is there any hope that such a case will smell and be brought to earth in quietness, or how do the purchases of the island go on in the government? I can't figure it out, and I'm on my way. Yesterday, a High Priest spoke of two fine things with both pros and cons. Then came council members, from the other categories, from the left greens and the forwards, warning both of matters, so that love was not great in that case, as it were in this case or in the highland park. There can hardly be a good example at all. I just had to come up here to let these thoughts go, so I'm clear that I'm worried about this, I have to say, as some good man of old said. News reports in the days revealed that only 31% of the people were attached to a highland park. Tell me about it because they thought it was just some tiny, crying memory thing against a highland park. But judging from this, the crying memory part is just 50% or more, and I think it's a pretty big smaller thing. I don't know if I should have any further words on this point, but I think of a lot of things. It mentioned that we have to produce green energy. I don't know any greener energy than water mains. That's the energy source I feel the most greener than ever. Of course, it can be described as a heat - green electricity, but it is not in my mind as green as aquaculture. Wind energy is a future, but it can never be different from that of the hydropower. The hydropower will always be the back of the spine in electrical energy production. Let us bear in mind when we have future problems with electricity, that the hydropower becomes the spine in electricity production. There's nothing more complicated than that. I'm not gonna keep my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u102	President. We're here to discuss the Parliamentary resolution of the Environment and Resource Minister's programme for national protection and energy efficiency. First, I want to criticize the fact that the proposal is presented as late as it really is. This is a matter that, in the opinion of the person listed here, should have been presented immediately during the first election season, a large part of the information being published is out - of - date. We know that there is much more to it than when it was discussed by the Project Management Board and the value and importance of the area below. Similarly, I would like to criticize the neovascularisation of WhirlLL by frame 2 using, not professional, food, but a vote. They needed a lot of data that should have put it in a waiting party. Similarly, in the middle of the Middle East, there is a completely different cultured park. It comes like a dagger into the middle of the highland and should, of course, go to a waiting party. These are things that are among the new information that have been published. President. There have been no new information that gives a reason to shift the benefits of a waiting party to a lower level, since there is no energy shortage in the country. The same is true of the Sharks as for the Tanks, although there is at least a second occurrence of Sharkism. A waiting class. It should be noted that while there is no energy shortage, there is insufficient energy in the country, there is, of course, a need to consider better distribution of energy and to ensure delivery of its safety. It's similar to the eyes how many geothermals are on a Smokeynes class. They work against one another, and the importance of Smoking as an outdoor area is much more than five years ago. However, I would like to state, more dignified President, that, of course, I support the strategy based on a frame plan, but it also requires that the General of the Council be in position and implement the plan as soon as it is prepared. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the contract being respected in all this work, a contract that pays for the greater involvement of the public in environmental decision-making.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u103	A respectable president. We here discuss a frame plan and I have to admit that for about a decade, I thought this was the only way and the most sensible way we could do it, because there was no sense that we were arguing about each of the activations, but it would be wise to put them in one frame where it would be determined once and for all, what to do and what to protect. I still think that's a really good idea. Sadly, though, we have not been successful in this. You can only see how difficult it has been to get the frame through the council and whose looks it is. I'm just gonna wish. The Environment and Transport Committee is successful in reviewing this synonym and hoping that we will be able to control this project. I'd like to say at the same time that I'm beginning to agree that we have the waiting party as the largest. Some might say that this is not a problem that we are solving but that we are pushing them into the future. But I'm just convinced that when it comes to our important natural resources and how to use them, there are so many things that future generations will just have to do with them. We see so much technological advancement taking place that we need less energy to produce certain things, while other things require more energy to form in energy, energy, and other things. So the future, of course, is very incomprehensible, but our basic premise is, of course, to ensure enough energy for the future, for what we need. Of course, we have plans for that. Of course, it would be desirable for us to agree on protection and energy efficiency. To handle that, I just want to direct it into this job whether it may include increasing in the waiting category and allow future generations to deal with what we may not be able to get together exactly now.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u104	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the social protection law, which includes the obligation of public employees, both state and community, to conduct jobs in the interests of public defence at risk. This is the same bill as I moved in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic and was adopted temporarily with the time to the end of 2020. The preliminary principle is therefore suspended, but it is necessary to restore it temporarily, at least to the end of 2021, with reference to the uncertainty that exists as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. This law has proved to be particularly public. This includes temporarily changing jobs and temporarily moving employees between work stations and institutions to carry out hazardous tasks. Under such circumstances, workers maintain unchanged remuneration. Yet, an employee is under the responsibility of his health or of others with whom he is responsible so that his health or health are put at particular risk. The bill is aimed at ensuring adequate privacy of public members so that they can render public service at a time of crisis. This allows changes in the job responsibilities and even the working places of the individual employees to be considered as necessary. Official organisations according to the bill refer to state, societies and businesses owned by them. A time of crisis in the sense of this law is the time when the level of public protection or emergency has been declared. The Marshal has declared them a state-of-the-art emergency phase in accordance with the P.R. Directive on the public defense ladder or has declared that emergency levels are imminent. It may never be that the P.R.'s emergency has been declared before now in the fight against the disease called Covid-19. Various public agencies have been doing a pre-relevant update on the response programmes, including Because of avalanches and landslides, volcanoes, and epidemics, many of which tell us that it is possible to transfer people from job to career in the pursuit of priorities. At that job, it has been found that in such circumstances it is necessary to ensure legal foundations for the authority of the public bodies to move employees to work as needed. Such a warrant must be available regardless of the subject of action, since decisions may often need to be made quickly and safely at this stage of public defence. According to Article 19. the P.R. is a civil duty for all of you between 18 and 65 years of age at a dangerous time, free of charge, a job in the interests of public defence. It is normal that there is also a reduced resources or authority available to enable human donors to be paid. Thus, government agencies can use their resources in unusual times as these in the most important activities. By means of the agreed bill, workers' duties will be met to carry out their civilian duties at a crisis entrusted to them on the basis of this warrant. The primary objective is to ensure the safety of the public and to render needed service under such circumstances. The strategy has been successful and has been one of the main causes that have been relevant for the success of Iceland's efforts to cope with this disaster. The Justice Department received a special address from both Icelandic and U.S. Marshals, where it was strongly requested that this temporary law be restored. Examples of temporary measures requiring flexibility include the P.R. for Covid and the P.A. and P.A. co-ordination centre for P.P. and P.R. In fact, the flexibility of the public system is partly based on the II provisional regulations in the public defence. In it, e.g. This includes making spontaneous changes in the watch structure to ensure the necessary compartments, to ensure that the necessary response services, law enforcement and public protection equipment do not lie down due to cross-infection in certain units or when making decisions that are not in accordance with collective rights such as elections and monitoring procedures among employees according to the procedures required. In such a situation, the debate is a key factor. Without it there are no legal requirements for responding rapidly to the situation, ensures the necessary safety and ensures that important structures are used in accordance with the P.A. regulations. Farmers feel that the law is very important because it has been important to keep out the necessary activities of rural communities, including the field, welfare services, and schools. Thus, workers are transferred between work stations, receive tasks other than those employed, and change in organization, but only at a dangerous moment, according to the definition of public protection. In each case, employees are able to get a full salary according to their collective labour agreements and pay is increased if they move to a higher pay grade. In some cases, workers are getting a full salary, even though a work contract is less than an employment contract is expected, it is only used if there is a prerequisite basis for those jobs that have a priority in these times. By means of the approved bill, the public authority will be assured again to address rapidly and safely in the emergency public defenses and be able to arrange for tasks that have priority. Will it have important and positive effects to cope with danger and to provide the necessary services that society needs at each time? In preparation of the bill in March 2020, the European Union of Iceland was employed and consulted with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and also contacted the major representatives of the public organisation. This process remains based on consultation, but the bill is remanded to the wishes of public officials who play a crucial role when the public health situation is in a crisis or a public emergency. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggest that, after this discussion, be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u105	A respectable president. It is generally not an envyful position for a minister of freedom, and it often speaks of its importance, as this noble minister does, to present such issues, of course, that the temporary limitation of the rights of the people is maintained for one year at a time. However, the bill's report shows that there is a right place to submit a bill, since it will be done permanently in some way. Of course, it's always the same old question as when the public interest will be replaced by the individual's freedom. Of course, this is a very important right, but we'll deal with it when that bill comes, I suppose. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister to another law in the public defense, see 19. ...of a civil duty. When read, it is quite wide and has been criticized in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has in mind, or even has already considered the possibility of narrowing it down or in some way reducing the potential loss of freedom at risk. Then I'd like to let it go that I'm not particularly concerned that there will be abuse of the authorities in this pandemic, and I have no reason to believe that. But as history teaches us, at times very rude, sometimes it can reach the hearts of individuals who are willing to misuse laws set in legitimate and positive purpose. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister if she intends to reexamine that law and provide a bill for a change there.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u106	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to reason on such questions and accept those views that must always be considered. And that is precisely why he brings to a close the article that is already under the law, so I believe that the command given here is less burdensome and needs to respond to it. Here, we are simply ensuring a degree of flexibility in government work in the emergency phase of public defense. There are a number of evaluations and public interests that must always be considered, and the requirement must be restricted to a degree of public protection. In fact, there's a lot in the law coming to my years, and I'm completing a new public defence policy where the law will have to be considered even further, not just the changes I might be going to make in this council. This arrangement, 19th degree. I will take that opinion into my mind, because I think it has come to its own years, how it is presented, most certainly. Of course, the use should always be very limited, and the law may be fully available today. There should be ways that go any less, like this one does. At this point, we see that this law has been very useful in the public defense department itself, in the non-functional infectious team, where everyone is very willing to move to a place when there is a need for that work, but also here in the city where workers of athletes who have not been employed have been working either in school or in the work for homeless people. It's been going well, and the will has always been there, which, of course, is very important, and we want it to be the basis for such activity at the time of public danger. So I'm just saying, "Yes, it is to consider it as a matter of course. " A senator will mention it, and I think it's absolutely necessary. But I also believe that it is important to offer this law so that it does not need to be taken to the 19th floor.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u107	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up to say thank you. Minister for a good and perfunctory and comforting answer. I don't expect the highest. Minister has just received his second due but would like to come up here and thank you and celebrate. Minister to impress on these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u108	I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001. The bill's on the roof. 752 and No. 441. The bill was written at the Ministry of Economics. In part, it was based on an early bill submitted to the 145th legislature Council. 1537, of the 817s'case, of the limitations of authority for the granting of prices to the consumers. In the government covenant, since November 2017, the same is true. that the government will take decisive steps in the terms of the election to cut off insurance on loans, but at the same time they will be attacked on counterweight measures to protect young people's potential and less - incomeed persons from housing. It also states that economic stability must be maintained by special emphasis. From April 3, 2018, a government decree that supports biographies, there are seven measures aimed at decommissioning insurance. The bill deals with two of them, one on the other hand, the limitations of long - term prices of credit loans and the prolongation of minimum-time prices loans to consumers. The second change is that the maximum time spent in securities to consumers will be generally 25 years, but younger people and less income loans will be granted outbacks from that peak in the following way: First, there are two kinds of age - related exceptions. A loan with an equal payment system is required for up to 35 years of age as a borrower and up to 30 years of age is borrowed. It is based on the lack of life span of the loan when a borrower reaches 65 years of age. In the case of more than one lender, it is enough that one of them meets the age criteria. It is clear, though, that in itself nothing will prevent a person from taking a new loan, but this will depend on the general limitations that have been broken down here. Second, there is a reserve for low income, which may be difficult to live up to the cities of shorter prices as well as loans in a different form. The average is 4.2 billion. K. to make taxes within the next year or 7.2 billion. K. If there's more than one loan. This prevents the limitations of the bill from affecting those who are likely to be poor under the financial burden of unsecured loans, the shorter price insurance bills, or credit - secure loans with equal payments. In addition, the bill suggests spending about ten years of minimum price - guarantee loans to consumers in the law. According to current law, Iceland's National Bank is authorized to set the maximum rules for five years. It is expected that Iceland's Penitentiary will continue to be permitted to set minimum-time credit limits, other than consumer loans and mortgage loans to consumers. A respectable president. The actions of the bill were made in consultation with Iceland's SEC and the Neighbour Department for assessments of the impact of the bill on those institutions, end of the SEC and the Neighbour Department of finance for consumers. Draws that the bill, along with other government-based legal plans for the development of collective agreements, was published for review in July 2019, and is the view it presented for this bill in the discussion section of the bill. In May 2020, a meeting was held with representatives of the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of finance, the Allied Union of Iceland, and the Organization for Professional Affairs, including Their comments to the elements and particularly to the criteria of biographies. After further consultation with the labour market partners on the middle of 2020, the decision was made to make the following changes to the bill: First, the law says that the basis for insurance in consumer loans and mortgage loans to consumers should be the index of consumer prices without housing. At the time, when the biographer contracts were in preparation, this point was put into force in the government's declaration to support the biographer agreements, but at the same time, people agreed that it should be more reexamined how it might be extended over time to make this adjustment in the composition of the index number seen in the prices of the mortgage and, in fact, the consumer loans. So we're not talking about these indicators, but we're actually talking about the idea of the workforce's agents, especially from the employee movement, making it an obligation to refer to an index number without the staff. The underlying concept is, then, that house - to - house fluctuations may be adversely affected by loans. As this matter has been examined further, it appears that the fluctuation, if any, has softened the blow, e.g. after the collapse, and it has been observed, under further observations on this matter, more views. It is now so clear that the parties to which the declaration was made to the labour market are not to stress this point anymore. There was a beginning in this conversation, and this was a big deal, but it's a good thing about it now, after the case has been reviewed, not to have it in the foregrounds any more. It's about the basis of insurance prices in consumer loans and mortgages to consumers. Second, the exception of the ban on price insurance loans to 40 years has been changed: a. The age-related forms are simplified to a decrease from three to two, the maximum age to underdeveloped is changed from 44 years to 40 years, and the maximum loan time is changed from 40 years to 35 years. b. Exceptions are removed from maximum-time prices of credit loans is a 50% or less mortgage rate on credit day. The most important impact of the changes proposed by the consumer bill is the shortest loan period of a new remuneration loan for 25 years. This change is expected to contribute to a higher rate of property in the consumers who take a high - priced mortgage and thus lower the risk of negative their own housing funds during their previous loan time, but the lowest possible amount of money available to be paid would likely to be higher. And more than that, it's pretty clear that she'll be taller. Young people and earners, according to the bill, continue to enjoy the low pay load on long - term loans, under the prenup. Although it is not that they are the same as the longest loans before, the bill will be accepted. For a shorter time, the economic impact of the changes proposed by the bill is mainly an effect on housing markets and the secondary effects on private consumption and e.g. It's an apartment investment. The lower possible cost of mortgages as a result of the change is likely to be reduced to the price of living. The variable changes in the bill will usually include a shorter life span and a better payment process than the current arrangement. The offer of long, secure investment options might be reduced. Likely, the changes in prices of consumer loans will be approved by the bill, additionally motivated to take non-secures and increase their impact on the markets. Let us bear in mind that there has been a very rapid development in this regard over the past few years, but this has even been true. The profit of the financial policy of the National Bank on the growth of the mortgage is increased as the bank's direction of growth and pay loads is increased, according to unsecured mortgages rather than inflation, or perhaps we should say on the basis of such loans. The effectiveness of the money policy will thus increase, enabling the economy to cope with economic swings. We are discussing a matter that has been extremely long in the discussion, and much has been debated about the effectiveness and impact of insurance. I think it's safe to say that this is a separate route. These are progressive steps, as foretold in the government covenant. This is not such a step, however, to shut down this possibility, but I must be sure to let it be mentioned here that there has been a major change in the market with mortgages at the time of this discussion. As we see, consumers are increasingly borrowing inaccessible, and it seems to me that they've recently come up, that's just been swinging, that's all, that's all, that's all, even though their payoffs are higher. It has been noted that if the World Bank controls become new and the situation calls for, for example, a new control device. that growth will have considerable and greater effects than we know for a short period of time because the load of payment will increase rapidly on these parts of outdoors loans, i.e. the unconvinced part. I have come to reason that there are advantages and that they can be irrefutable. This adds to the effectiveness of money policy. However, if we examine it based on individual interests, i.e. For any person who owes unconvinced loans, he may not directly see the benefits in his home book. He sees only the way in which there is more money left to fulfill commitments. Hence, some have been concerned that this situation may arise. The best answer is that we are united here at the council to pursue responsible government policy, to keep public finances, so that it is likely to support long - term stability. It also matters that we are in line with what happens at work, and we all depend on the emphasis being placed in the Federal Bank at any given time. These are basic factors that we hope to enjoy because we have so much to learn from history in this regard. History has shown us that when there is a distinction between the way these key stakes in our economy, i.e. The government, the state, and the rural communities, the second, and then the council with its economy and tool in the third, use each time, so that the powers go their separate ways, it bites the people of the land. It shows up and it breaks into inflation. This has been done several times in Iceland, which once again leads to a higher interest level, and we see that the effects are also evident in the state's budget. Of course, government funds can also lead to such a trend. Unrespecting government policy, where there is no budget for expenses, can bring the same thing to us. In the end, would it be better to assume that everything is regularly going wrong and with the same amount of money as 40 years' credit so that it does not end on the domestic monthly expenses? Or it is not better to take full responsibility for the economy and to say that when something goes wrong, we can do it; instead, we need to face the problem, and we need to be careful in our economics; any who can contribute to it; any who are responsible for it must be careful not, nor should we trust that inflation relieves them of responsibility and zero corrections so that a new approach can be made with a lower order; less money - understand the damage and distribute it even over home. That, of course, is impossible. As I traced earlier, this material is such as food for hours and therefore for days of public speaking at the council. [[The president calls.]] Yes, let us be careful to initiate such a discussion, but the insurance and its general use of it, of course, has its historical roots; it had just become a prerequisite for access to capitalism. It was now essential for borrowing. Those who could be the source of the funding to borrow in Iceland needed an anchor for the mismanagement that had been then in economic affairs and, of course, also the shocks that we had failed to pay well enough. But we've come to this place, and I think it would be a lot of health signal if we could continue with the trend less likely to rely on a 40 - year - old price loan to get people over the threshold of possessing their first property. I hope I'm clear enough about this. However, I'm going to keep it up here that I've had, and I'm still concerned about those who, on the basis of 40 years'worth of dues, can borrow and buy their own place but land outside if the bill is accepted as it is before the council. In this regard, it is important that before this matter is presented at the council, we have been providing new housing arrangements. The Minister of Social Affairs has come here to the council on a matter that is particularly tailored to the plague of income that wants to own a home. In other words, we have created new loans, which the old camp loan fund, now a Homing and Engineing Institute, provides access to loans of special interest for smaller apartments. This is in line with other actions that the government has been using to bring together so that governments will do what they can to make people feel relieved to cover their heads. So, of course, there are some external limits, but let us bear in mind that the vast majority of Icelanders who are living in rented homes today prefer to have their own housing. So I have given much importance to the fact that we do not make any changes that will expand the number of people who cannot get into the housing market. I hope that I have come to realize that this case is next to and along with the other actions of the government that actually meet the factors of this case that can act in a negative way to the most efficient groups. I also think of the rights given here, and so must I, at the end of my talk, give special attention to the fact that we have made a decision over the past few years so that it has been in constant value. We've been in Iceland for quite a few years, but that's a key factor. Often it has been said: It is not the insurance policy that is the problem but the self - inflation. The disaster is the problem, and humans should rather focus on the root of the problem rather than on the consequences of 40 - year - assured housing loans, the result of economic rhythms, and not merely the economic rhythms, but the mismanagement and constant inflation. Therefore, it is happy that we are discussing this very matter at just the time when inflation has been stable and low and not only keeps interest in historical least, at no lower than right now. I don't think there would be any circumstances, no grounds, for this sort of discussion except just because we have these two in front of us now, a constant price and a low inflation that has remained low, and inflation until we are fine. It seems that the market believes that the Councilman can fulfill the promise that he usually has foreboding and constant, with his inflation goals. It is a sort of promise that inflation will continue around 2.5%, which is the goal. Hence, you should be able to trust that the value of money is somewhat safe and consistent with such inflation. This is of utmost importance. I think it's all in favor of this case and the outside circumstances are correct. I'm going to say again that this is a matter that has been in the discussion for a long time. There's been some difference of opinion about that. I've rather been on the line that we should focus on securing a good framework for the economy, on public financial matters, on making a deal with the labour market, and on securing the effectiveness of money policy. Then we would be attacking the root cause of the inflation. It's done well. However, given that we have agreed on the importance of this matter, I see it in all the other light, and I also refer to other activities I've been putting up with here, share loans are called resources, for example, and therefore I trust to recommend here a matter called by the employee movement, quite strong. We've put this in a government contract. This has already been discussed in a government covenant, i.e. tightening the use of insurance in the mortgages and consumer loans, and I believe we've done a good job to prepare us to move more slowly into unscrupulous loans. A respectable president. With these words, I believe I have emptied the most important thing I wanted to have mentioned. At the end of my case, I'd like to note that the direct influence of the bill on the survival of the A-part State Fund is very insignificant, particularly through the growth reform system, which should be considered to include only new loans, and uncertain how the group who would otherwise have taken 40 years' worth money as secure as money will be able to provide loans and, consequently, the interest rate of the bill. This is very uncertain. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u109	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for a extensive and thought - provoking speech. This is not a big step that is taking it to the end, as I understand the highest. Minister, canceling insurance, but as far as it goes, it should, of course, be welcomed. I myself have given the bill its subject, and I know the highest. Prior to this, a minister has delivered the bill of material that could not be fulfilled. I might have allowed myself to hope to the highest. A minister would be more ambitious in this matter of the sort of subject that is getting rid of the insurance policy. We are the only land built by a bull that has the advantage of such loans. At one point or another, pretended to have found that something similar could be found in Uruguay or somewhere. That's not true at all. Minister said insurance is not a problem, it's an inflation. Of course, inflation is a problem, but the insurance policy is an independent problem because it is so wrong. This is really similar to borrowing in foreign currency. There is nothing in common with the value of a dollar and the insecurities of the dollars, except the name. It is not expected that people will finance their house with foreign loans. Yet, we have this option here, which is that it is the type of loan that exists because people don't make money in foreign currency and they don't make money in securities. There are a number of things I would like to ask, but I want to finish this for one time by asking: "Why is a minister so hesitant about taking a more aggressive step if he really wants what he says he wants, i.e. canceling your insurance policy? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to think that this is the biggest step we've taken, if this is going to be agreed on, in order to reduce the overall use of prices in the mortgages and consumer loans. Then I'm pointing to the last few decades. This would be the biggest step. I think we're taking a big step, although some just want to see it removed from the table. Why should we not? This is actually the problem that we have too long a time of inflation so that it's realistic to be able to ensure long access, and then I'm talking about maybe 30 years old, I don't talk about long, unsecured loans on solid interest. I think that's impossible. There is no such market in Iceland. He might even exist with a rather long unconvinced letter, especially if a government fund produced a fine amount of such letters. It would be possible to lay the foundation for such a market, but it would have to be based on changing growths. In changing growth environments, if in the event of inflation, and the Sensitian was forced to increase growth, borrowers may have to look forward to a payload that would simply be too much for them to pay. In this regard, there is no overexhaustible long ago that the Marine Bank was approaching 20%. It has been only twelve to thirteen years since the control rate was well over 10%, 12%, 18%. What would be the burden of such loans for people? It would be enormous. [[The president calls.]] So I think this has to happen in stages. The fact that we have been preparing for the knots in Iceland needs to be raised in the faith that in the long run, in the long run, in the case of inflation is healthy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u111	Mr. President. The task is to arrange for this goal to be achieved. For example, it is only a three - hour journey to Copenhagen, and all the Icelanders who have lived there, the people you know, will have a word for praise on the mortgage system there. Speak to the highest. A minister was very good, and at the end I gave her a compliment; she would have been discussed with a slight change for taking much larger steps than the minister is doing. I'm in no way minimizing what a minister is doing here, but he mentioned everything that really matters. First, he mentioned that all conditions are different. We have a financial market that didn't exist in 1979 when insurance was recorded, just indistinguishable. We have a very different economic situation, and a minister attributed it to a great hind, that's low interest, and they've been low for a long time. He mentioned that interest had gone up to 18%, the arctic fruits of the Navy Bank, 2008, or 2009, which were naturally referred to in a very special setting. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned what would have to be here in the economy so that these conditions would take place; responsible policy in government matters, responsible policy in public employees' wages, and third, not to be involved with any of the past mice, such as this insurance that all agree, and especially with the Swedish specialists, to have a very disturbing impact on money policy as part of the economy, including the maintenance of inflation. So the speech was really good, but he might as well have been talking for taking it off. [[The president calls.]] I just want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. For example, a successful minister allows us to adopt a non-normatic system on loans, such as those found in Copenhagen, where credit institutions are specialized in this area, and there is very good experience. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u112	A respectable president. Yeah, I think it's true that there's a lot of good things going on with the Norwegian housing market. However, there have been many problems or defects, let's just say it out loud, on unique loan forms. It was, for example. become all too common to borrow without the capitals and to collect some kind of bullet loans because of real estate, huge debts. Then, when the house market suffered trauma, people owed far beyond the value of housing. Each of these markets has had to face many challenges. Weeds in Sweden have e.g. Being incredibly low, people benefit from it. However, since we are mostly cut from the northern countries, the workforce is exactly what we want. If we should take one factor that has been very different in Iceland and North countries in recent years, and that's almost no matter how many years we look back in time, we have a salary in Iceland that's gone way far beyond what's happened there. I have long said and still say that the Icelandic labour market model is defective. There's been too long a review, there's too much division in the workforce, and there's too much debate about the labour market. I took advantage of this opportunity in 2017 as prime minister to set this specific schedule in my direction. This is one of the factors I think we have to put our arms around, i.e. The workforce model's overall review in Iceland, to move closer to what happens in the North countries, so that we can control all aspects of the economy and ensure that those who can cause it are all pulling in the same direction. [[The president calls.]] This will provide better and more solid reasons for what the senator calls.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u113	A respectable president. I want to thank you, too, the highest. A minister for a thought - provoking talk, as it was called earlier. I feel the same way as what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ishundsson in that I wondered if there are no circumstances to go further. At first, I'd like to say that I'm supporting the bill, but I think it might go further. Its effect is very similar to that of the bill presented at Council 145, the pump behind it. It looks like it's going a little further than not much. I understand the logic, and I agree with the highest. Minister on the evidence of taking this step. The reason, as far as I understand, is that simply unchecking the price insurance on one board would result in such a response in the economy, and especially in the banking system, that it could have other undesirable side effects that we don't want, except for all the good reasons that are highest. Minister mentioned. I can say, as far as I can tell, about the ability of people with less income and no way of taking irresponsible loans, to borrow mortgages. I find that more involved in my speech afterward. I'd especially like to draw attention to the top. Minister on one thing. When the first bill was submitted in 2016, according to its report, a very high rate of new loans and outdoor loans was guaranteed. This rate has dropped tremendously, especially when it comes to new loans and also because recently, people have been reimburseing enormously with uncertain loans, which are very positive in my opinion. But it also makes it an opportunity in my opinion that we can go further. Not only are the interest rates lower than those of 2016 but there is also a financial loan of credit in the bank property and in the entire economy. Is that not reason to go a little further, to take a little more step now? But I agree on the bottom. Minister, we have to do this step by step.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u114	A respectable president. Just to make sure there's no misunderstanding about it, I don't really know if I could understand it from my speech. A senator, but so I'll take it off the board if there's anyone thinking about it, the bill is just about new loans that will be taken after it takes effect. It will not affect when given out a loan. But I can see these speculations as to whether it could have gone further. For example, my opinion is that this is the right thing to do in steps and evaluate, the effects of this bill and the share-in loan system, whether or not we are taking it or picking up groups that want to get into the housing market with the resources we're offering. Then I am specifically referring to public housing procedures and, on the other hand, what happens on the free market. This is really the subject. I don't want people to be pressured into a rented market or allowed young people to stay longer, but it's only necessary from house to house that we want to reduce the use of the prices of equal payment loans. We are creating all the general conditions for these people's dreams to come true. And now I think that there are good circumstances, low stature, constant inflation, and good prices. The whole objective is to add more to the irresponsible loan that is actually a message to us here that people have faith in what we are doing, and they have confidence that we are thus putting up with matters so that they are not involved in the taking of unscrupulous loans. It is important to keep that in mind when we are considering the big context.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u115	A respectable president. I believe it is in so many places, beyond the fact that a head's loan does not increase in in inflation, which consumers are benefiting from the permanent elimination of insurance, especially in terms of prices of equal payment. I find that more involved in my speech afterward. When the first bill was submitted, we were in a different situation today. I now believe it was quite time at the time. It's a little tighter. I think that now that the situation has improved and will create new opportunities that are so much bigger and better than 2016, there is an opportunity to go further. I'm completely aware of a point at the highest. A minister, and he himself was giving talks about it at the time when I accepted insurance or rather opposed banning it - I've changed my mind ever since then. But in turn, the less the value the insurance will have in our loan system and among consumers, the easier it is for the Secret Bank to use their equipment like the highest level. Minister's gone over. It also means that when or if it becomes inflation, some severe inflation, and, of course, the Sustainer is forced to increase growth, the need is much lower because there is less insurance on the economy. Of course, this is some kind of balance art, trying to do it fast enough for this to happen, using the opportunities when they give, but still slowly enough to do so, as the highest. A minister went over and rightly in my opinion, that we do not create other problems for other groups or even the same group. I'm on the same team as the highest. Minister there. But it just seems to me that the evidence and the story, and from the two primes, this at the 145th and what is presented here, is the ideal opportunity to go further without causing any additional problems such as the highest level of problems. A minister rightly pointed out otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u116	A respectable president. A man who takes a 40-year-old guarantee of money is saying: I want to be able to buy my own home. I am willing to let the loan head position remain unchanged over the previous half of the credit period - we give ourselves traditional grounds for taking the loan - and I really wish that the loan will be built so that I can borrow what I cannot repay until I can work down a head chair. It takes a long time in the same financial arrangement because first and foremost it is human interest. This is actually a declaration that people will accept this but that they want the benefits in return. Then we can manage for a long time whether people really understand the kind of thing these loans are. But given that people fully understand this, they're saying, "I want to do this in spite of this quality of my loan, and I'm asking to borrow from the things I can't afford to pay in the first place. But then I'll fix it up in the rest. A strong argument is needed to impose on people who are open - eyed to do this. They may lie primarily in the economy, and I feel that we have a very rich duty, when we say that we want to squeeze this option, to show that there is another way, that we have other resources, that it is some of the absolute benefits to society. It has been difficult to argue, especially when certain uncertainty has been in the economy of inflation and growth has been relatively high. But it's this kind of opening right now because of outside circumstances, and we've been initiating new options that also come to meet, I'm going to let me say, a negative on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u117	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I support this case. There was a time when I thought this was my insurance policy, and then I've changed my mind and I'm totally against it. I believe, however, that it needs to be removed in steps, and unfortunately not necessarily large and that there are reasons why I'm going to go over a little later. But I would like to start by saying to the audience who listen to the famous Internet, or anywhere else, that if I use words or terms that they think are completely incomprehensible, they are in good company with this nation. There is, in fact, one of the reasons why I want a securities loan to be banned or, at least, not allowed as a mortgage on real estate. While we consider freedom of the agreement to be a fundamental and very important right in the general business, such as the highest. The minister of finance, at the end of his opposition to me earlier, still depends on the fact that those making agreements understand the agreements they are making. That is why we have a measure of consumer protection, both in the public and commercial laws, as well as in the financial system and when consumers make financial appeals. If, for example, the common citizen is going to invest in stocks or other items, he must recognize certain things. It is a study project that is intended for the city to learn how to make informed decisions, at least about the risks he makes with his actions. It is essential to our financial freedom, in my opinion, a respectable president, that people have an easy, clear, realistic access and a real understanding of their actions so that they can apply their will to their interests. In short, the reality simply does not exist when it comes to prices of mortgage loans, even less so when it comes to prices of equally credit loans, and least of all, loans that are committed to such payment loans. If that term is completely incomprehensible to the audience, it is understandable. This type of loan is thus more complex as more and more are added to these words to the common consumer. Now it is relatively small for someone who works here at the General or who is just interested in the subject to study all these grounds and what all these terms mean as I have and the highest. Ministers have done, and people who work at the banks have, and people who may have gone through real estate may have. But the common citizen who is just trying to get a roof over his head is in a very bad position to do so. We all know it's not always been the experts in real estate or real estate loans, how it is to sign a number of pages of tiny letters with all sorts of prowes and conditions and legalities that you haven't looked up and will not look up, while the banker or the lender drummers with their fingers and wait for you to give up reading through all the plag and just writing, as everyone else does. These are the circumstances that we know quite well. They are very real, and we need to show respect for the fact that when people are making this decision in their lives, about the very greatest financial commitment and the biggest investment that the majority of people will make in their lives, they must be perfectly aware of the impact of their decisions. According to law, if we are going to write down on paper what happens, the creditors and the employees will explain these to people and people, who usually have some form of inadequacy toward all these words and this system, of course, tend to make themselves believe that they understand better than they do or just think: well, this system has been so much already known that it must basically be okay. Here's a lower payment load, here's my name. Bravo, I have an apartment. That's totally understandable. It is only to be expected of the citizens when it comes to taking a mortgage. In this regard, I would like to mention only my personal experience by talking about this with friends and family members who are considering or buying real estate. I've had it in my field of interest to inform people about how all these loans work. I'm just weirdly interested in that. Part of the reason why I can stop defending this worthless loan is my experience that almost no one understands it, even as people who have studied these matters feel simple, like people like me who feel it's not too complicated anymore. But most people feel totally incomprehensible and find it hard to understand terms such as interest, just interest. It's just the hard way to go through all that with people why the difference between 3% and 5% is really important. People are not used to it because 1 percentage point to or from that point of view was a major factor in life in general. But real - estate business is a huge deal, and it takes a long time for people to realize why. As we add insurance to this, people need to learn how the inflation works, how it has been historically, why it has been so historical and whether and how it is likely to be in the near future and what it will be until 40 years. This is a lot of stress, a respectable president, for the civilian to study in this situation. It's just that. In short, I consider consumers to be a protection in prices of home loans impossible. This is also reflected in the discussion after a collapse when people began experiencing serious problems with their loans. They began to wonder why this was so, and they did not understand that the loans had gone up when they were about to, at least in most cases, would raise with inflation. I think it's just a complicating fact, and it just offends people if they want to, that people in general have not understood these loans. And that's just not good enough, not at all. Then we add to the price insurance phenomenon called even payment loans. For the audience who don't understand or are not experts in this, the difference between the normal loans we're going to call, with the co-founded payments, and the equal payment loan works, so that you always pay the same thing on a dollar or as good as loan time. If you pay 150,000 next month, you pay 150,000. After 20 or 30 or 40 years, provided that growth remains unchanged. The other kind is that you pay most first but always lower the head chair as much as it means that the amount you pay will decrease over time, and eventually it becomes a very low number compared to the original. When it comes to a choice between equal payments and equal payment on unsecure loans, these can be explained to people, and they understand if you show them a table or dig them or something like that. But if you mix insurance and equal payment, you get a term I know that mathematicians and experts find less accurate than the public, i.e. I'm just saying, if you're willing to cover your credit loans, you're gonna have some kind of double insurance, some sort of super-skilled insurance. The value of equal payment loans is far worse than a guarantee loan with equal payments. I'm not even going to get into the conditioner, she's that big a steak. Fortunately, most people today do not have it as far as I can see it. For this reason, I think that to get rid of this, it is best to do it in step, and first, to get rid of the price-free amount loan. If we are just borrowing in equal credits, we will not only simplify the system for consumers but also eliminate the share of the insurance that makes it worse than it does otherwise. Of course it would be just a step, the ultimate goal must be to get rid of insurance, but I think this is a good goal to start with. This bill handles the exact price of even credit loans, but only in part. Therefore, it is only part of the solution. Positive steps, certainly, but I think it may go further. One problem with this bill is that it is only complicated by the borrower; it is even more difficult to discern what is available to him and why. In fact, he needs to start asking questions about why it is available to one person and not to another. Then, the lessons needed to make an informed decision are even more complex and, if I know people right, more boring. Looks like I'm going to give another speech to review it all as well as I need to. But there's another reason why we should get rid of the insurance on the mortgage and it's systemized. It does not turn in itself to fairness to the borrower or lender if it does, but rather that the insurance and its impact in the economy are many and quite negative to me. There's nothing good, there's nothing better about economic management, projections, or investment options in having insurance on these loans except possibly for banks because they need less attention to how the resource collection develops if it becomes a major inflation. But that is not a positive option for the economy. It may be positive for the banks, but it is not positive for economic management or to try to understand how the economy works or to change the rules to make something more efficient. This leads me to the direction of the Federal Bank, which is a relatively unidentified device in Iceland, where we don't have a money head and we have insurance insurance and we have an independent currency. This is the poisonous cocktail, a respectable president, if anything, for this instrument in the Federal Bureau of Control. That is why there is such an overwhelming positive development that now the consumers are making a huge switch to unscrupulous loans from insured loans. There is a tremendous positive development, and there are so many opportunities for us here to go further in canceling insurance. This is because the less the insurance value, e.g. in the bank library or in the economy of the general population, the less it's going to be done in larger steps. Likewise, the Federal Bank, to keep growth low, and to reduce its use of growing devices, depending on the result of its Surpee banks work to the best of their ability. It's totally unmistakably clear that it works best when the public is borrowing unconvinced. Of course, that would involve that danger, as at the highest point. The secretary of finance was right here, to the payment burden, i.e. how much money the consumer pays each month can get a lot of money out of an unsecured loan if interest is rising very quickly. It's far more than out of credit. The difference is that the cost of unsecured loan immediately falls on the consumer, while the cost of the inflatable loan goes on to a far greater extent and is paid later. However, it does harm the borrower; it is not only a loss that he will have to deal with that month only in the form of an increase in the load of payment, which will certainly increase if the increase in interest is largely less than in uncertain loans. There you can expect more inflation growth because somehow financial institutions will defend themselves. Finally, I'd like to come in to the highest level. A minister mentioned, some say that the problem is not insurance, but inflation. There's a certain truth in this statement, a respectable president, but I would say that the only way to get the argument going is to give us somehow to keep this independent currency stable in an open export system. In other words, while we're wearing the crown, we can't, in my opinion, expect to keep inflation such a minimum for so long that insurance will stop being the problem that it is. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Ólafur of Isaiah's Ísleifsson in that insurance is an independent problem, regardless of whether we are able to keep operating things as low as they are now or not. A respectable president. Now that I don't have time for more, I'm gonna think about whether I'm gonna be forced to give a second speech, I'm gonna see how the discussion develops. But that's what I said, I don't support it, so I'm going to point it out. The Economic and Business Committee to consider the possibility of taking a longer course in the light of a better situation we live in today than when a comparable bill was proposed in 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u118	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to correct the change in growth and insurance laws. In particular, we are discussing the task of disappearing from offering the so - called toxic cocktail. And who's the poisonous cocktail? It is the valued equally paid loans to 40 years of age, which are natural for the first 20 years of at least 20 years. is not paid a dollar on the loan's head. The loan's capital, when the loan is paid for 20 years, stands unfashionable. There's nothing to pay for, nothing. I mean, 20 years of possession, there's no real estate, nothing. That's what they're getting away from. We, Mr. President, must pull ourselves out of this insurance policy and a slave's idea of insurance that we cannot have an independent cultural state on the sea of the ocean any other than to have the peculiar inventions of insurance. Price insurance was adopted as a complete relief under a completely different condition and in a completely different society than we know in our time. There were no financial markets that could be called that name, and the economy was completely different. It's all changed now, fortunately. We have a somewhat developed financial market, a wide range of financial institutions, we have completely altered economic conditions, and we have a completely different way of using modern methods to cope with inflation. In fact, as mentioned in the discussion, insurance has had limited effect and has prevented the money policy from having the desired effect. The way to become a change in organization is for economic management to hold back inflation. And what is it? Yes, it is the strength and responsible government of government. Second, the phenomenon, such as the insurance policy, does not interfere with the fact that the Fendolaban can fulfill its obligation to maintain the value of the currency and hold back inflation. Third, a fool's face is in a mood. At any given time, government policy is under attack. You see, Mr. President, the insurance policy offers certain alibis from giving responsibility to the government. Money, money, chicken business, and anything else can happen, but it's quite all right because it's all in pernicious and that's how it keeps it in balance. But when it is not available to distribute it, the influence of such management comes immediately. They are listed in larger numbers on residence loans and on other social loans. So that in the same way, humans cannot hide behind the insurance policy and make a living. Removing the insurance policy from the system, as we should have already done, which is now a very good requirement, will act as an incentive to pursue responsible management in terms of government, money, and dress. Mr. President. That's a good bill because you're sitting a little stuck in a insurance suit. Let me give you two examples. It is said that insured loans of certain kinds have been popular. It's a little strange to say this about the poor price insurance, talking about popularity in that relationship. Another example is the use of counter measures to protect young people's prospects and to provide housing for those underdeveloped insurance on loans to 40 years of age. In neighboring countries, there's no insurance insurance, nowhere. It says here that if this poisonous cocktail is taken away, then counter measures will need to be taken. But insurance does not keep these people safe. Price insurance is among the worst enemy of these people. We know that prices resulted in 10,000 families being driven from their homes after the collapse. If the family may be three, four, how many people are there? 30 to 40 thousand people were driven from their homes. It's more of a shelter, this insurance policy. But, of course, it is true, as shown in the highest court. Minister, the common talk must meet young people with low incomes in housing. It's a natural thing. There once was here for the workmen's Building Fund. He was laid off, perhaps by those that should be least. Of course, coming to people in these respects is a self - righteous thing. Mr. President. I put it in the back of my mind that a dollar's insure and insurance dollars don't have anything in common except the name. In a sense, the value of a dollar may be similar to that of foreign currency because it will change according to a completely different law than a reputed dollar. So it is very strange to forbid borrowing in foreign currency and then to maintain the insurance policy. Then there is another factor, and there is no wonder. paritaprevir This is where Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi finds that people don't understand this insurance policy, that's just understandable because it's a bit complicated. Valuable insurance or securable loan has the quality of being what is called on financial products; the size determined by the underlying size, in fact, many. One size is the price of an apartment house. A person who has taken credit has become responsible for his delinquency. We all know what we are here, and the people who listen to us that the conduct of the business is not within the reach of professionals with expertise. The Icelandic public is expected to live under responsibility when people allow loans to cover family heads. It's so absurd that it doesn't talk. I'd like to remind you that in the two counts of the district Court of Reykjavík of December, which contains the unregistered payment of the Subcommittee, the nature of the payment fee is discussed. It is, in fact, there. of the three judges in each court stated that the payment is in its nature deduction, the name of the financial interest products. The pay is determined by another size in the market. Mr. President. Next, I'd like to go to other things I'd like to do in the bill. The time will begin to run out, but one factor is the housing of the index. In May 2018, I was surprised to hear some comments made by the secretary of finance on that aspect because he answered a request from me about the housing team that shows up a sum of loans on mortgage mortgages between 2013 in the year 20162017. With the permission of the president, I'm going to read two sentences from the highest answer. Minister: ▪ Total financial benefits over the period according to the index price of about 133 billion dollars. about 15 billion dollars. is based on the index value of non-suspecting food. The share of the protection in the compensation is 88.7%.• Mr. President. During this five - year period, nearly 90% of the price paid was attributed to the individual housing loans. If only a general price change had been calculated, 15 billion would have settled on the loan. But because of the housing team, 133 billion on loans. It's such a massive property transfer from the homes, because it's all loans with mortgages in an apartment building, well over 100 billion in this period, to no avail. Then I'd like to mention another feature of your insurance policy, and it's that here taxes are raised to raise money for some project and also to contribute to some of the goals, such as in climate, and these indirect taxes raise this indicator number and raise the loans. [[The president calls.]] Why is it tolerated year after year that creditors are placed in a special shelter from taxes, as if not everyone should pay even more when it comes to taxing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u119	A respectable president. I have a problem. I was going to thank the highest. A minister of finance for an excellent review and speech but also says that he had failed to convince me completely how good this idea was and I must admit that last talks delivered here have less convinced me that this is a really good idea. V.E.G. A minister came in to me that it had been called after this a long time, and I've heard that voice that sounded earlier, a certain hatred of insurance, it's a poisonous cocktail like a dog. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson came in. I just haven't had the same understanding of the phenomenon of insurance. I have to admit, if you've taken a securable mortgage in your 20's and certainly didn't have the utmost insight into what insurance was, that you look at what you can afford, and what performance you have to pay every month, and then it's just been a more reasonable option. Therefore, in this discussion, I have been called after this for quite a while, talking about the blue prohibition on insurance or the prohibition on 40 years of loans, not to adhere to a policy of banning certain options for loans. On the other hand, I am thrilled to see how much more we have gained variety in long - term loans to real estate, where more people have come into the market. It is offered a way of intimidation and infidelity, and it is good. I've always held that people have the freedom to choose. There are certain restrictions on this subject. I'm gonna give myself time, be lucky to sit on a financial and business committee, to go over it well in the activities of the Committee, and see if I'm convinced of the importance of taking this step at this point. I think there's a lot of them. Councilmen here have gone quite far in their declarations against the insurance policy. I first borrowed money from an apartment loan fund - which, in fact, we now have to save from about 200 billion losses and live under it, and I guess it'll be at my children's expense - but otherwise it's the general pension fund that's been paying mortgages. The banks are now entering an increasing number, but the pension funds have been quite large in this market. We're also talking about the prices pay from the pension fund. So I wondered about Grandpa's pension fund, don't I want them to be rewarded? I promised those who hold on to the council to speak very briefly because we are in a hurry, perhaps we can hold this discussion until later. I am simply trying to express my certain viewpoints. I think this poisonous cocktail, spoken of here, is the natural way that caused young people to buy property. Young people like me back then could buy real estate. At the same time as you're getting up a family, taking your first step in a workforce, and, hence, with less pay, it's both tempting and, in many respects, wise not to start paying off the head seat until later, instead of being stuck in a rented market. Given that a man doesn't want to be in a rented market, I'm not going to talk against the rent market, but people are supposed to have the freedom to choose what they want in these matters. I'm gonna try not to keep it any further, although there's certainly more to talk about. I know it's been called after this. While this may be a wise course, taking certain steps, I hereby declare that I have not been fond of banning certain paths, although I certainly see the benefits of irresponsible loans, and you see that many are looking at them right now. After all, though, long - term insurmountable loans vary over time and, as a result, take in the inflation that may be. Of course, the big issue is to be centered on responsible financial management and prevent inflation. Happily, in the last few years, we have been able to do so despite what we have been through. We have historically low interest levels and have also kept the inflation in check.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In fact, I disagreed, but it was still the fact that I agreed. A senator, bringing out of this pontata and elsewhere, to make certain problems, reasons for insurance, and how to use that form if you could handle it. Resurrected loans are lower paid because less interest is available. In itself, there are no other magic at them but lower interest rates, and banks believe they can have less interest in them because a certain part of their growth rate is already guaranteed by the insurance policy. That's what I know. A senator knows, I'm explaining this to the audience. There are, in fact, only two situations in which I can imagine that insurmountable loans to a young person, it is a logical choice for her to pursue her interests. On the other hand, if the borrower pays for the throne each month more than what he needs, he will pay for it. Of course, that means being able to do so. As a result, the reason to keep the insurance insurance in low interest is that young people who have low wages cannot cope with disloyal loans. Obviously, that group is not about to start paying extra money on the head chair. In that case, the insurance policy damages the borrower's interests very much, and he uses it only out of necessity. However, these are circumstances when a young person is on a low salary but knows that he will increase his salary. Suppose you are studying with a doctor or a lawyer, something you think you know you'll get well paid later, and then you can handle the loan or even pay on it. But the group who are always trying to defend themselves with these valuable loans is the group that these two are not relevant, a group of low - paying men, with no plans for higher pay, people who are in a class that is not highly paid and who are not able to advance. It is the most vulnerable group to these prices because, sooner or later, the pay load is made up of what the person can pay, and then he will have to refinance, probably reimburse, with a higher head position, and more debt and will become even worse. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid there will be a vicious circle from which the time will be explained in the second answer. [[The president calls.]] But I wish a senator's response.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u121	A respectable president. I don't know if there was any particular question, but why. A senator identified what would be reasonable about the individual's interests. My view is that the individual himself should be allowed to evaluate and choose what is suitable for him or her. I'm not a special spokesman for securities loans, I'm just saying I put a question mark against that form because I simply trust individuals to make a decision for me. Then we can establish financiallocks and the importance of promoting such skills and knowledge. But then we could, for example. put this into discussion about drugs, because I know why. A senator feels strongly about this: Are we talking about a prevention or a clear ban?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u122	A respectable president. I totally understand the point because I've held that argument myself, did it at the time. But as I studied in my speech, having talked about these matters with a lot of people, smart people who are well educated in other fields, I just realize that these loans cannot be guaranteed by consumer protection. We have a certain consumer protection in the financial system. There is no place for anyone to interfere, and the lack of knowledge that is completely normal for ordinary citizens is bound to become too much for the individual to be responsible for his free will. That's what I'm talking about. For our freedom to be truly beneficial, we need to know what we are doing. It is not enough that we have the freedom to do some random thing without making any effort in our own interests. Of course, we need to know what we are doing, so our financial systems and consumer protection are generally protected. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving and I was on this line, but I'm here, even though I don't want to offend. This question has been answered even further by a candidate who is overemphasis. A senator wanted to go next, which is what is acceptable consumer protection and such. I've just finished that question, and my answer and my conviction is, consumer protection is not possible in this. These loans cannot be offered fairly for the civilian. I'm counting on taking those loans. I'll think about it. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun the son of Izzma trusted to take those loans. A senator, but that's because we're in a situation where we've been able to learn about this, and if that's the case, we're going to work on this, especially now. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. However, the making of personal decisions depends on their having the right information. It says the knife in the cow when it comes to insure loans. In the next seconds, I'm going to point to the vicious circle -- in itself, I don't have a question, I just wish to react. A senator - a low - income professional, a low - income worker who spends his or her life dying. He is that people are forced to borrow money, they stop handling the payment burden, they need to take another responsibly loan, and start again at the start of the curve, where property is negative for a long time. [[The president calls.]] These people never get their property, owe more, and more until there is no time left.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u123	A respectable president. That may be the problem. A senator has gone further in the process of inflation, but for the sake of fun, I totally understand what he's saying. A senator is saying that, and you've heard it before. But I've also watched it so that when we're talking about a business, it may be a pension fund or a bank, it's on the other hand in and out. I chose, for example. The option for my children to place the money on a future insurance bill, as I know my grandparents and my grandfather have trusted in pension payments made from the pension fund with certain insurance insurance. It won't somehow be released and held in the same system. But once again, I'm just talking about freedom, and I have some doubts about banning something and that it's the solution to all things.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u124	Mr. President. At the beginning of his speech, there was nothing. paritaprevir That neither of us is Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's humor. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson would have managed to convince himself. I have to admit, I'm not sure I'll ever be able to convince. A senator for anything. [[Up front.]] No, I don't think so. But I'm going to start by saying that if anything happens. A senator was referring to my speech when she used two words, one forbidden, and I don't recall it coming from my talk, but I talked about delinquency, and that sort of thing. In a speech or two. A senator also planted hatred, and I can't take it to myself because I don't have an emotional relationship with insurance so that I kind of regret that I have such feelings if you have any problem. A senator would have been referring to me in his own case. However, there are many questions about standing still. Senator. It's a little small. A senator that we cannot be an independent nation of the north unless we have this insurance policy? Why can't we keep things the way they're had in our neighboring countries, Denmark and Norway, Sweden and Finland, the northern countries we compare with? Why? Wants to play. A senator thus maintains that in order to finance his home, he needs to take responsibility for a deduction that is not limited to specialized professionals? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Price insurance is derailed. It's a detranslation. I've got a few more questions for you. Senator, let's get this started.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u125	A respectable president. I'm sorry if what. A senator has taken it to heart when I use the terms ban and insurance hatred. I was generally just referring to the discussion and, as I said, came to the top. Minister into it that the requirement to avoid bail would have been loud and intense, especially from the employee movement. Hv. A senator asks: "Why can't we have the same routine in most places where we live? I believe we can. In fact, my view is that I don't think countries are supposed to be involved in real estate and, hence, property loans. We've tried it with an apartment loan fund. It's just said that it hasn't done anything so well, so we're stuck with a lot of damage. In contrast, some of the housing market is that we want to help people who are in a particular position and that is a system that we have already established. But in general, my view is that we do not have to ban or allow it. Instead, we allow those who are on the market to offer what they consider best and then trust individuals to make suitable decisions for them. I'm just not exactly there that it's such an overexhaustible and poisonous phenomenon, insurance, and taking credit. And although these 40 years of valued mortgages are not entirely positive, and we have seen a number of disadvantages, I dare say that they have just helped young people to cover their heads that otherwise would not have been possible at that point, they would have had to wait longer in a rented market, even more so when they were taking their first steps in an apartment market. So they are not just negative, even though the negatives were also evident in this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u126	Mr. President. It is not easy to understand the proselytism of speech. Senator. She doesn't want no ban, and she wants freedom, and I think many people would agree with her that they would like to have more freedom, but the people's wishes are that they're free from insurance. She says that if I understand why, she doesn't want any political dealings with a financial market or over head just any created thing. A senator is correct. But insurance is a natural government trade. If she's anything, then it's government action. This is an engineering emergency solution or an engineering emergency from 40 years ago, 1979, in a completely different society. There was no financial market to promise and not a financial enterprise as we know today, a completely different economy, a completely different economy. Of course, the Northerns are observing and have come to know the financial skills of the Icelanders. But how is it that none of the northern countries have taken up this strategy? Does the senator have any explanation for that, since it is so incredibly clever to have this insurance policy? Why isn't it in Norway or Denmark? Then I'd like to ask the senator, "Will she support this bill at the top? " Secretary of finance and chairman of his party?
ParlaMint-IS_2021-01-21-47.u127	A respectable president. I forgot last year's answer to thank you. A senator might do well so that at some point he can convince me of something that ends well and clearly what he has to say, and I hear his attitude very well. Hv. A senator talks about freedom and people wanting to be free from insurance, and I just don't disagree with them. It is great to have them on the market and to be able to borrow something that is inaccessible. I was simply saying that in the long run, these loans always take into account inflation. It's the same thing that's happening in other states. You will not be borrowed for tens of years with the same interest rate. It takes changes after inflation. What these nations have done beyond what we have had in history is that they have not had as much fluttering and as much inflation. The good news is that we've reached a considerable extent of inflation by responsible economic government. Hv. One senator asked if I would support the bill, and I began to say that I was still wondering, as we have seen. But there may be a wise way, apart from both, to cover this, and I also deny that here is not a prohibition on insurance, there are certain restrictions on this use. I'm just gonna have a good time. The Economic and Business Committee to review this. And who knows, maybe I'm convinced of what I think. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun the son of Isun and others here as to the possibility that this might be a good idea. Let's see. As I said before then, there has been no serious damage to these limits, for of course, loans are a loan of great value to advance to irresponsible loans, people choose them much, but not everyone does. I admit to myself that I have securities loans on my property in part. People just have to figure it out, each on their own, and what's appropriate in each case.
